DRN-3335836
The complaint
Ms S complains about a roadside assistance policy she has with The National Farmers'
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case because I planned on coming to a different 
outcome to our investigator and I wanted to provide additional reasoning and findings.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of my final decision.
On 4 February 2021, Ms Ss car failed to start and so she called out NFU who confirmed 
that the battery on her car needed replacing. Ms S bought a new battery from NFU and it 
was fitted by their roadside technician.
A couple of weeks later, on 25 February 2021, Ms S attempted to start the car, and again it
wouldnt start. Ms S contacted NFU again, who sent out a different technician who confirmed
the battery needed replacing again. The battery was replaced at a further cost to Ms S.
On 8 April 2021, Ms S tried to start the car, and again it wouldnt start. She called NFU a
third time, who again sent a technician. Again, it was confirmed that the battery needed
replacing, and the problem was due to ongoing battery drain. NFU waived the charge for a
new battery and Ms S bought a smart charger from NFU to maintain the condition of the
battery.
Because of the problems Ms S was facing with the battery she took her car to a garage. The
garage confirmed that the condition of the battery was good, and that the likely cause of the
problem was that the battery connections were loose. Ms S says she thinks this was caused
by the first roadside technician.
Ms S initially complained to NFU on 25 February 2021, about having to pay for a second
battery. NFU said that the issues with the battery werent covered under the guarantee, but it
should have offered her a 40% discount on the cost of the battery. Because NFU didnt offer
Ms S the discount, it agreed to refund her the cost of the battery in full.
Ms S later complained about the other issues shed had. NFU said that there was no
evidence from Ms Ss garage to suggest that its technician had caused any problems with
the battery terminals. It said that the battery terminals could be worn due to the age of the
car. NFU said it wasnt upholding Ms Ss complaint but stated that there is a possibility that
the technician could have missed the loose battery terminal and so it offered her £25 as a
gesture of goodwill.
Initially, our investigator said that he hadnt found that NFU had caused any issues with the
battery connectors, but he thought it should increase its compensation to £125 given that it
could have missed the issue with the loose battery connection and the inconvenience of the
number of call outs Ms S had to make.
Ms S didnt agree with this and explained that NFU had caused her a huge amount of
inconvenience  especially given the location of where she lives, which means she is heavily
reliant on the use of her car. Because of this, our investigator increased the compensation to
£200.
NFU didnt agree. It said that the garage report specifically references loose
terminals/connections. It also said that it disputed the garages allegations that the loose
terminals/connections were the cause of the problem, this is because the high demand of
current during the starting process would highlight poor connection, so it didnt agree with
the garages suggestion that there was poor connection through use.
Ms S also responded to our investigator to say that she had also incurred a cost at the
garage, and had spent £80 on a smart charger, that she wouldnt have needed had NFU
fitted the initial battery correctly. Ms S later added that she has since visited two different
garages who have explained that the battery NFU fitted wasnt the right one for her car. And
because of this, she would likely have issues starting the car when its cold. Ms S says that
she has been told that the battery terminals were the incorrect size, which is why the contact
was poor and shorting and not charging the battery properly. So, Ms S would like the
compensation increasing to £200 for distress and inconvenience, and a further £235 for the
costs she has incurred.
I asked NFU about its thoughts on the incorrect battery being fitted, and it has provided me
with a response to say that the correct battery was fitted to Ms Ss car  and has provided
evidence to support this. Ms S has also provided me with an email from the dealership which
says the battery was incorrect.
Because neither party agreed on our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed
to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my current decision to uphold this complaint.
I dont think its in dispute that when Ms S initially made the call out to NFU at the start of
February, the battery needed changing. The comments from the technician at the time say
that a drain was found on the battery and this resulted in a non-start. Ms S herself has
confirmed that this battery was relatively old, and so she has accepted that it needed
replacing.
From what Ive seen, it seems that NFU are suggesting that Ms S didnt use the car often
enough to maintain the condition of the new batteries. So, Ive looked at the Battery
Warranty that was provided by NFU alongside the new battery. It gives tips on how to
maintain the battery, and states that the car should be driven frequently for longer periods of
time. And if making shorter journeys, then a smart charger should be considered. But it
doesnt provide much information about what this actually means in practice.
Ive also seen a copy of the customer assistance report that appears to have been
electronically signed by Ms S from 4 February 2021, which says The best way to ensure
your new battery is maintained correctly is for the vehicle to be used regularly please try to
ensure the vehicle is started and driven for 15 minutes at least once every few weeks
NFU stated that Ms Ss car had only been driven for 54 miles in two months, so I presume
here its saying that the issue with the battery could be because she wasnt using it enough. I
accept that its possible that could be the cause, but the information provided in the customerassistance report Ive mentioned above, requires Ms S to use the car for 15 minutes every
few weeks. So its possible that she did this, even though she only drove 54 miles.
So even if I accept that the issue with the battery was because the car wasnt used enough, I
still think it likely that Ms S followed the guidance set out in the customer assistance report
from NFU.
After Ms S had to call NFU out for the third time, she understandably became concerned
about the performance of her car  so she took it to her garage. The garage provided Ms S
with an estimate, which says:
Vehicle came in for suspected battery drain on the vehicle, while carrying out if the vehicle
was charging, noticed that the battery terminal connections were completely loose and not
making a correct connection to the battery allowing the vehicle to charge the battery
properly. Further tested the battery and test result was good & pass then went onto testing
the vehicle for a drain and found there was no drain on the vehicle
So, based on this information provided by the mechanic at the garage, it appears that the
battery connections were loose, which has caused issues with the car starting. I asked Ms S
if she had experienced problems with the car starting since the garage had made the correct
connection, and she has confirmed that she hadnt.
Given that Ms S had experienced months of her car not being reliable due to non-start, and
then once the garage had corrected the issue with the connections, it was working normally
again; it seems likely to me that the issue Ms S has experienced with her car was down to a
problem with the connection. Which I think ought to have been noticed and rectified by NFU,
which would have meant Ms S wouldnt have had to experience the problems she did.
More recently, Ms S says she received some advice from a few different garages and
dealerships who have said that the wrong battery has been fitted to her car. NFU dispute this
and have confirmed the correct battery was fitted on each occasion. Ms S has provided
information from the dealership which states that the wrong battery has been fitted to her car
by NFU. However, NFU has also provided information to show that the battery it fitted was
right.
Ive been back and forth with both parties trying to identify whether the correct battery has
been fitted. I understand both parties feel very strongly about this point. NFU have sent me
evidence to show the battery it fitted would have been acceptable for the car, and Ms S has
also sent me evidence which contradicts this.
Given that Ms Ss car was running after the garage had rectified the issues with the battery
connection and based on evidence provided by NFU to show that battery it fitted was the
correct one, I dont think I can fairly find that NFU has fitted the wrong battery.
I have thought very carefully about everything Ms S has told me about the problems with the
battery NFU fitted. In that the battery terminals were too small, and the Amp-hours (AH) and
cold cranking amp (CCA) were also not the right specification. Ms S has also told us that the
actions the previous garage took to fit the battery were inappropriate  she says they made a
temporary fix for the connectivity to improve. But Ms Ss car was still running without
problem after the garage had sorted the connectivity issue, and I havent seen any
information from an independent engineer or mechanic who has seen the car that states the
wrong battery was fitted and the reasons for this  or that the garage had made a temporary
fix to the connectivity issue. NFU have said that there are a number of different batteries that
would be suitable for Ms Ss car  and these have different specifications. But this alone
doesnt mean that the one it fitted was inappropriate.I appreciate that Ms S changed the battery to minimise any future problems that might occur
 and I can understand why she did this. But because the car didnt fail to start after her visit
to the garage, where she still had an NFU fitted battery, I cant fairly say that Ms S would
have had more issues with starting the car had she not made the decision to purchase a
new battery.
NFU has accepted that its technicians could have missed the loose connection, and so paid
Ms S £25 to say sorry. But I dont currently think this is enough. I would have expected its
technicians to have noticed something like this, especially given their expertise in this area.
The loose connection has potentially caused Ms S to have to make multiple unnecessary
call outs to NFU for assistance, and to take her car to a garage to diagnose the problem. Ms
S has also purchased a smart charger for her car, when at the moment, I dont think it was
necessarily needed.
Based on everything Ive seen, while I agree its possible that the issues with the battery
could have been down to infrequent use of the car, I think Ms S is likely to have driven the
car enough to meet the guidance provided to her in the customer assistance report. So if this
was the issue, then I dont think I can fairly say this is down to something Ms S has done
wrong.
But based on what Ive seen and given that Ms S has experienced ongoing problems with
her car until the issue with loose connections was resolved, I think the issue with the car is
more likely down to NFUs technicians not noticing the loose connection.
I have spoken to Ms S about how the problems with her car had affected her. Ms S lives in a
remote area, where she relied on the use of her car. Its clear to me that she has been very
concerned about the performance of her car after NFU had been called out a number of
times, and that the situation has caused her stress and inconvenience. I think this is shown
by her getting advice from a number of professionals to try and reassure herself of the
reliability of her car.
Based on everything Ive said, I think it likely that the issues with Ms Ss car starting were
down to a problem that could and should have been spotted by NFU. And I think Ms S has
lost out as a result.
NFU responded to say that it didnt have anything more to add than what it had previously 
provided.
Ms S responded with the below main points:
The batteries supplied by NFU had the wrong size terminals, so werent the correct 
specification for her car. When the dealership put the chassis number for her car into 
their system, it told them what the correct battery for her car was.
Ms S confirmed that she hadnt accepted any payment from NFU so far.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.After having considered everything on this complaint again, it is still my decision to uphold it. 
However, I wont be asking NFU to pay for the additional battery Ms S purchased from it, for 
much of the same reason as outlined in my provisional decision. 
I understand that Ms S has since spoken to the dealership and it has confirmed the correct 
battery for her car based on the chassis number. Ms S confirmed to me during a phone 
conversation that it told her that this is the only battery that would be suitable for her car.
I asked Ms S if this was the same battery that had previously been fitted by NFU (before she 
had issues), and she confirmed that it wasnt. So, it seems that there were other batteries 
that would have been suitable for Ms Ss car  given that she hadnt previously had 
problems with the one it fitted.
I really do understand Ms Ss strength of feeling on this point. And I know shes put in a lot of 
effort to support what shes said about the wrong battery being fitted to her car. And I have 
given much thought to this point. But NFU have also been able to provide me persuasive 
evidence that they fitted the correct battery. As Ive explained in my provisional decision, Ms 
S didnt have any issues with the car once the garage had tightened the terminal 
connections. I know Ms S will be disappointed by this decision, but these points dont lead 
me to find that NFU fitted the wrong battery. 
It follows that I cant fairly say that it did anything wrong when it made the decision to fit this 
particular battery.
Putting things right
NFU needs to put things right for Ms S by doing the below:
NFU needs to reimburse Ms S for the cost she paid for the battery to be fitted at the 
garage  the invoice shows that she paid £25. So NFU need to reimburse this and 
add 8% simple interest from the date Ms S paid for the until the date it refunds this.
I dont think Ms S needed to purchase the smart charger, and she has only done so 
as a result of NFU not noticing the issue with the connection. I dont think Ms S would 
have bought this if NFU had fitted the battery correctly. So, I think NFU ought to 
reimburse Ms S the cost of the charger. However, I wont be asking NFU to pay Ms S 
8% on this amount given that Ms S will still have the benefit of the use of the charger.
Pay Ms S an additional £350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
NFUs actions have caused her. This is on top of the amount it had offered her in its 
final response letter of £25  meaning NFU must pay Ms S total compensation of 
£375. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint. The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited must put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman