DRN-3603800
The complaint
Mr B, Mrs B and Mr B2 form a partnership Ill refer to as B and run a hotel. B complains QIC 
Europe Ltd turned down a claim it made on its Hotels and Guest Houses Insurance policy.
B is represented in bringing this complaint by Mr C.
What happened
In August 2019 there was a fire at the hotel which caused significant damage. B made a 
claim for property damage and business interruption under its policy with QIC. After 
investigating QIC turned this down. 
It thought the fire resulted from oil igniting in a deep fat fryer in the hotel kitchen. And the 
policy contained conditions relating to deep fat frying requiring (amongst other things) that 
fryers should include an automatic cut out which would operate if the thermostat failed. In 
this case it thought the thermostat had failed and the fryer didnt have an automatic cut out 
(which would have switched off the heating element). It said this was a breach of the policy 
conditions which led directly to the loss occurring. 
Our investigator thought the policy requirements were clear and was satisfied they hadnt 
been met in this case. And while an expert employed by B suggested an alternative cause 
for the fire she wasnt persuaded by what he said. She thought if the fryer had been fitted 
with a cut out the fire would probably have been prevented. She was satisfied QIC had fairly 
turned down the claim. 
B didnt agree. It said the information QIC provided didnt mention the requirement for a cut 
out or the testing requirements for it. It said the sales information for the fryer contained a CE 
mark which indicated it met European safety standards (and should therefore have had an 
automatic cut out). And the report from its independent expert suggested an alternative 
cause for the fire which a cut off wouldnt have prevented. So I need to reach a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say QIC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Bs policy. That does contain specific 
conditions relating to deep fat frying which, amongst other things, require that:
thermostats are fitted to any frying range and other deep fat frying equipment and set to 
prevent cooking oils and fats rising above 205 degrees centigrade (or the manufacturers 
recommended temperature if this is less than 205 degrees centigrade) and include an 
automatic cut-out in the event of failure of the thermostats and that such thermostats will be 
maintained in efficient working order 
I understand while the original policy B took out didnt include this condition it was added in 
2019. QIC is responsible for producing information about the policy which includes its main 
benefits, exclusions, limitations and conditions. And I can see as well as including this 
information in the policy terms it was specifically referenced in the policy schedule. 
Bs expert says the term doesnt make clear what the testing requirements for the cut out 
are. But that isnt the issue here. I think QIC made clear in the information it was responsible 
for that equipment capable of deep fat frying needed to include an automatic cut out. I also 
note in a separate complaint against Bs broker our investigator found it had drawn Bs 
attention to this condition when it was added to the policy. And its accepted the fryer in 
question didnt have a cut out.
This is a condition precedent to liability under the policy. And I can see the policy wording in 
this case reflects the changes brought in by the Insurance Act 2015. That means in order to 
turn down a claim for a breach of a condition like this the failure to comply needs to have 
increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it did. Its 
for the insured to show it didnt. 
Ive thought about how that applies here. I can see an expert report in January 2020 
considers evidence put forward by Mr C suggesting the fire didnt start in the fryer but in an 
isolator switch (and so wouldnt have been prevented if the fryer had an automatic cut off). 
But having reviewed photographs, X-rays and evidence from the fire service the expert didnt 
find evidence of the fire originating in either the isolator or the sockets. And examination of 
the thermostatic controller for the fryer indicated it had been left on (with the controller turned 
down rather than in a fully off position). He thought the temperature controller had then failed 
meaning the heating element was continuously engaged which led to the oil in the fryer 
igniting.
B has drawn attention to a report from its own expert which, while accepting the fryer was 
the likely source of the fire, proposed an alternative cause. That expert suggested if the fryer 
had been left on the oil in it could have evaporated to the extent it was no longer in contact 
with the thermostat. So the thermostat wouldnt have switched off the heating element 
meaning the remaining oil in the fryer would then have ignited. That wouldnt have been 
prevented even if the fryer had an automatic cut off. And he was aware of fires that had 
started in fryers that were fitted with one. 
QIC referred the comments from Bs expert back to its own. He said given the likely rate of 
evaporation of cooking oil it would have taken weeks for it to reach the level set out in the 
report from Bs expert. So he didnt think that would have caused the fire. His view remained 
that the most likely cause of the fire was the fryer had been left on at a low setting and the 
thermostat failed to a permanently on condition resulting in the ignition of the oil. And that 
would likely have been prevented if it had been fitted with a cut out device. I dont think QIC acted unreasonably in relying on the evidence of the expert it appointed. I 
appreciate Bs expert may be aware of fires that started in fryers which were fitted with an 
automatic cut off. But the question is whether in this case having a cut off is likely to have 
prevented the fire. Bs expert put forward three possible causes for that fire and both he and 
QICs expert discounted the first of these. But he didnt say which of the remaining two 
(which included the view of QICs expert) he thought was likely to have been the cause. 
He did highlight (in response to our investigators view) that the time taken for the oil to 
evaporate would depend on the amount that was in the fryer at that point. And the expert 
appointed by QIC acknowledged in his report that he didnt know how much oil was in the 
fryer. But he concluded if filled to capacity (eight litres) it would have taken several weeks for 
the oil to evaporate. 
In this case the fire was discovered only three hours after the chef left the kitchen. So even if 
the fryer was at significantly less than full capacity it seems unlikely the oil would have 
evaporated within the available time to the extent it was no longer in contact with the 
thermostat. On that basis I dont think I dont think QIC acted unreasonably in preferring the 
conclusions of its own expert who said the fire could have been prevented if the fryer had 
been fitted with an automatic cut out. And I think Bs non-compliance with the term did 
increase the risk of the loss occurring (in the circumstances in which it did).   
Ive also considered whether its fair for QIC to rely on that condition. Bs expert says it 
wouldnt have been obvious to B from a visual inspection that the fryer didnt have an 
automatic cut out. And hes drawn attention to the CE marking which was included in the 
sales material for the fryer. He said it was reasonable of B to assume on that basis it met the 
required standards. QICs expert agreed a fryer marked CE (Conformit Europenne) should 
have undergone suitable testing to meet that standard. However, he also noted the CE 
marking might instead have stood for China Export which looks extremely similar to the 
European mark.  
Ive carefully considered this point. If B had thought the CE marking related to the European 
standard and relied on that to satisfy itself the fryer met the requirements of the policy it 
might have acted reasonably. And arguably it wouldnt then be fair of QIC to turn down the 
claim it made. The difficulty for B is that I dont think there is evidence of that. 
I appreciate a picture of the fryer, which I understand was used on the auction site it was 
purchased from, does reference a CE marking. But I havent seen anything to show B placed 
any weight on that when making the purchase. And the sales advert does set out (in bullet 
points) the key features of the fryer which dont include any reference to it having an 
automatic cut out. 
I can also see that after the fire had taken place B contacted the auction site to try and find 
out whether the fryer did in fact have an automatic cut out. But it didnt make any reference 
to having relied on the CE marking as evidence of that when making the purchase. And the 
sellers email address suggest they were a private individual (based outside the EU / UK). I 
think its less likely theyd be providing a product that met European testing requirements 
than a UK or EU based firm. 
So, in summary, I dont think B has met the conditions of its policy with QIC. I think QIC has 
been prejudiced by that. And I think its fairly turned down the claim B made.  My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C (on behalf of B) to accept or reject my decision before 18 
August 2022. 
James Park
Ombudsman