DRN-3149125
The complaint
Miss M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account, called a Plus account. HSBC charged Miss M a monthly fee for the Plus account 
and provided several potential benefits in return. She thinks it should refund her all the fees 
she paid, plus interest.
What happened
Miss M has banked with HSBC for quite a long time. I understand that she opened one of its 
fee-free accounts in March 2004 and that it sold her the Plus account in September 2006. 
During 2010, HSBC rebranded the Plus account to an Advance account. In 2014, it changed 
the way the Advance account worked. For many customers, it removed the monthly fee for 
the account itself but added several insurance policies which it called Insurance Aspects, 
for which it charged a separate monthly fee. It did this for Miss M. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Ms complaint and didnt think that 
HSBC had done anything significantly wrong and didnt recommend that it should give her 
any money back. Miss M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Miss M and HSBC have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
 
Miss M has been very clear about the main point of her complaint. She has told us that she 
never asked to change from a fee-free account to the Plus account and never gave HSBC 
permission to do so. Shes said, I didnt know I was paying and dont remember ever 
agreeing to having this account......I never used the insurances and didnt know I had them.
 
In essence, Miss M is saying that in September 2006 HSBC changed her account without 
telling her. HSBC has denied this. It doesnt havent any detailed personal records from the 
time to show exactly what happened but has told us that it would have described the benefits 
of the Plus account to Miss M, told her about the monthly fees and given her the choice to 
buy the Plus account or to keep the fee-free account. This is what I would have expected it 
to do to treat Miss M fairly. 
 
Neither Miss M, nor HSBC, have told us directly if HSBC sold her the Plus account over the 
phone, during a meeting in one of its branches, over the internet, through the post, or in 
some other way. However, I havent seen anything to make me think that HSBC stopped 
Miss M from keeping her fee-free account. It wasnt withdrawing such accounts and has 
continued to provide them ever since. I see no reason why it would not have allowed Miss M 
to keep hers or switched her to the Plus account without her permission. 
Im also satisfied that in 2006 HSBC usually told customers who bought Plus accounts about 
benefits they could gain and about the monthly cost, either face-to-face during meetings, or 
over the phone or in some other way. It also usually sent these customers a Welcome Pack 
which described the benefits of the account and how to use them at some length. Im 
confident that it sent Miss M one of these packs. 
I fully accept that Miss M may no longer remember any of these things happening, after all, 
over a dozen years have passed since they took place, but I dont think HSBC failed to do 
any of the things it should have done when it sold the Plus account to Miss M.
Miss M does not seem to have been affected adversely when HSBC rebranded the Plus 
account to an Advance account in 2010 as nothing significant changed at that time. She has 
not mentioned the way it switched her to the Insurance Aspects package in any detail, but as 
some of the changes HSBC made at that time were significant for some customers, I have 
looked to see if it did thing fairly for Miss M. 
HSBC was allowed to make the changes associated with the Insurance Aspects package, 
provided it told customers what was happening and gave them reasonable choices. It 
usually did this by letter, and I have seen an example of the letter it used, which I think dealt 
with things fairly. It gave customers a choice to have the Insurance Aspects or to opt out of 
them. HSBCs process for sending the letters seems to have been reliable and Im satisfied 
that it sent one to Miss M. So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it switched Miss 
M to the Insurance Aspects package.
Miss M has told us that she twice asked HSBC to move her back to a fee-free account but it 
failed to do so. She has said that the first occasion was about ten years ago and the 
second was during 2021 after HSBC had responded to this complaint. She hasnt told us a 
great deal about what happened on either occasion; so, I havent considered either of these 
possible failures to act by HSBC as part of this decision. This means that Miss M is free to 
raise them further with HSBC if she so wishes. However, I cant give her any advice about 
this or predict how HSBC may respond. Nor can I tell at this stage if any new complaint Miss 
M may subsequently wish to bring to us about them will fall inside or outside the rules and 
time limits that determine which complaints we can investigate.
So, in summary, although there isnt a great deal of information about this complaint, I doubt 
that HSBC switched Miss M to a Plus account without her permission and Im confident it 
told her about the benefits she could get and the fees she would have to pay. I dont think 
that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Miss M. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint about HSBC 
UK Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman