DRN-2569205
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva) has dealt with his 
claim.
What happened
Mr J had an income protection policy underwritten by Aviva which would pay a benefit if Mr J 
was unable to work due to illness or injury.
Mr J made a claim which was accepted and paid. But in 2007, Aviva reduced his benefit 
payments as it said he could work in a less manual role. Mr J was unhappy with this as he 
felt he was unable to do any work. 
In addition, Mr J suffered from a stroke in 2016 and sent evidence of this to Aviva in 2019. 
Aviva reviewed this evidence and made a payment to Mr J, backdated to 2016. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said Aviva had fairly reduced the benefit in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. It had also provided a copy of its calculations which 
were clear. Mr J remained unhappy and in summary, made the following comments:
The independent specialists report was out of date and his own doctor has 
confirmed hes unable to perform any type of work
The DWP had signed him off as being completely medically retired due to his heart 
condition and blood condition
Aviva hasnt accurately calculated his claim since the beginning
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Aviva accepted that Mr J was unable to work in his role and accepted the claim. But the 
policy terms and conditions include a Long-Term Disablement Clause (LTD) which says:
Benefit shall be payable during disablement as defined up to the age limit earlier 
normal pension age or earlier death except that after payment has been made for 
104 weeks of claim and the insured is medically certified to be capable of 
undertaking for profit or reward an occupation for which he/she is fitted by training 
education or experience by the company shall be entitled to take account of such 
capability in assessing the proportion of earnings which may continue to be paid as a 
benefit
Up until 2007, Mr J was receiving the full benefit. But the LTD clause meant that Aviva could 
re-assess Mr Js work capacity again to see whether Mr J could do another role by way of 
his training and experience. If Mr J was found to be capable of performing a suited 
occupation, Aviva could take the potential earning capacity into account when calculating the 
amount of benefit payable.
Aviva obtained and reviewed medical evidence in 2007 and 2008. It had instructed an 
independent medical expert (IME) and its chief medical officer (CMO) did a full review. It 
concluded that Mr J could work in a less manual role such as a plumbing adviser and so it 
looked at the salary this would pay on a part time basis and reduced Mr Js benefit 
accordingly. It also provided Mr J with a clear explanation of how the benefit had been 
calculated. But Mr J was unhappy as he felt his condition meant he couldnt do any work. 
Ive considered Avivas explanations and Im satisfied it didnt treat Mr J unfairly. The review 
from the IME and the CMO concluded Mr J could do a part time, light administrative role. 
The evidence showed Mr J couldnt do any hard-physical labour. And this was taken into 
account by the CMO in his review. The CMO also explained why Mr Js recent diagnosis and 
his blood condition wouldnt affect his ability to undertake an administrative role. Aviva 
explained it would calculate the benefit using the following formula:
Pre-disability earnings  suited occupation earnings x maximum benefit payable / pre-
disability earnings.
It then went on to detail the figures used as well as the number of hours it would base the 
calculations on (from two hours per day to four hours per day). Aviva confirmed it would 
consider any further medical evidence if Mr J wished to provide this. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr J provided Aviva with anything further at that time. Im 
satisfied Avivas calculations were in line with the policy terms and conditions and that it 
acted fairly and reasonably by giving Mr J a further opportunity to provide further evidence.
Mr J says the DWP has signed him off as being completely medically retired. However, the 
criteria for his income protection policy is specific and will be different to that of the DWP. So 
I dont think this automatically means Mr J qualifies for the full benefit throughout the claim. 
He would still need to satisfy the specific conditions of his insurance policy.
In 2016, Mr J had a stroke and contacted Aviva again in August 2017. Aviva reviewed Mr Js 
medical notes but there was no evidence of his stroke within the notes as it had happened 
while he was abroad. Aviva asked Mr J to provide further evidence in support of his appeal, 
including details of his stroke. Mr J provided this in 2019 and Aviva agreed that the evidence 
demonstrated he was unable to work at all, following his stroke. It made a payment of 
approximately £16,000 and explained this was a backdated payment from the date of his 
stroke. This amount was arrived at by working out the difference between the benefit Mr J 
was being paid and what he should have been paid, on a maximum basis. 
During our investigation, Aviva agreed to pay Mr J 8% simple interest per year on the 
backdated amount. Aviva also said it was willing to consider any further evidence from Mr J 
which would demonstrate that he was unable to work at all between 2008 and 2016. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr J has provided further evidence during the course of this investigation but I havent seen 
that this has been provided to Aviva for comment. He has also said his GP has advised him 
that it was never an option for him to return to work. But it would be for Mr J to provide this 
evidence to Aviva for it to review. In addition, Mr J has raised concerns about the way Aviva calculated his benefits from 2001 
but this isnt something he has raised with Aviva and isnt something which was investigated 
as part of his complaint. I cannot therefore look at these concerns in my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman