DRN-1827325
The complaint
Mr A complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited (Capquest) failed to remove his 
address details and continued to pursue him for a debt that wasnt his.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In 2014 this service agreed that Capquest had been wrong to pursue Mr A for a debt that 
wasnt his. We told Capquest to remove his address from their system and to compensate 
him for the error.
I can understand that Mr A was distressed when they contacted him again in 2019 about the 
same debt. Capquest clearly made an error and, in those circumstances, Ive thought about 
what they should do to put things right. To do so, Ive had to think about the impact their 
mistake has had on Mr A.
Whilst I can understand their mistake was distressing I dont think it had a financial impact on 
Mr A. The matter seems to have been resolved on the day Capquest first made contact.
Capquest have explained that they had Mr As phone number because they had been told 
by the credit reference agency that it belonged to another customer. They were not aware, in 
2013/2014 when the original complaint was raised, that the number belonged to Mr A. 
Theyve also explained that, rather than remove Mr As address from their system, they had 
marked it as incorrect. I understand their reasoning as I can understand they would not 
have wanted to inflame the situation and to contact Mr A if they were erroneously given 
Mr As address again in relation to the debt they were holding. But I think they should have 
explained this to Mr A when they made the decision to do so after our service had told them 
to simply remove the address. For those reasons I think they should compensate Mr A for 
the distress and inconvenience their mistake has caused him. 
But I can see thats what Capquest have done. Theyve offered £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and, in the circumstances, I think thats sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint as I think Capquest Debt 
Recovery Limited have provided adequate compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman