DRN-2209991
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1997. Mrs F and the late Mr Fs complaint is that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
mis-sold them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy covered Mr F only so Ive mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs F and Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs F and Mr F aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent
before adding it to their mortgage. Mrs F and Mr Fs representative has told us that Mr F was 
pressured into taking the policy. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mrs F and Mr F
applied for their mortgage and PPI but Halifax has provided a copy of the available
paperwork. An application form that was separate to the mortgage was completed and
signed by Mr F to take the policy. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr F didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Pressure is a subjective argument and for me to uphold this complaint for this reason I would 
need to see enough evidence that Mr F was pressured into taking the policy. Mrs F and Mr 
Fs representative has described some of the selling practices he believes were in place at 
the time. But each case we consider is looked at on its own individual merits, and I havent 
seen enough evidence to be able to say Mr F was pressured into taking the policy.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr F, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. It 
hasnt been possible to find out exactly what benefits, savings or other means of making the 
repayments Mr F had at the time the policy was sold. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any other means Mr F had at the time, protecting any savings and investments he 
may have had.
Mrs F and Mr Fs representative has explained that Mrs F could afford the payments by 
herself, so Mr F never needed the PPI. But Mr F was responsible for the mortgage and the 
PPI offered additional protection if anything happened that reduced Mrs Fs ability to make 
the repayments.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Fs circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F and Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think Mr F chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mr F off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F and Mr Fs representative has said, but for the reasons 
explained above these points dont change my decision.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund what Mrs F 
and Mr F paid for it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and the 
estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman