DRN-2777875
The complaint
Mr M complains that Contis Financial Services Limited, trading as Ffrees, wont refund 
disputed transactions made from his account.  
What happened
Mr M says that fraudulent transactions totalling £1,100.47 were made from his Ffrees 
account. The majority of these transactions were made to a computer games merchant Ill 
call P. 
Mr M complained to Ffrees, and they explained that the transactions were carried out using 
Mr Ms long card number. The bank investigated and decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions. They said there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. And the bank thought 
Mr M had carried out the transactions or authorised them because:
Mr M was inconsistent in his response and confirmed his brother carried out the 
disputed transactions. 
They contacted P and the merchant explained that Mr M has an account with them.
Its not unusual for customers to authorise transactions for online games. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Ffrees response so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr M's complaint - and concluded that Ffrees haven't evidenced
that Mr M authenticated or authorised the disputed transactions. Therefore the bank should
refund the transactions to Mr M.
Ffrees didnt accept our investigators view. They argued that as Mr Ms confirmed his 
brother carried out the transactions hes liable under the terms and conditions of this account 
because he was grossly negligent or failed with intent to keep his security details safe. 
Because Ffrees didnt accept our investigators view the case was passed to me for a 
decision. On reviewing Mr Ms case I came to a slightly different conclusion to our 
investigator  and along with advising Ffrees to refund the disputed transactions I asked 
them to pay 8% interest from the date of the transactions to the date of repayment. Plus 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr M accepted my new recommendation, but Ffrees didnt reply. 
As Ive not received an acceptance from both parties Ive moved on to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Ffrees can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. Despite Ffrees being 
asked on a number of occasions to provide evidence the transactions were authenticated,  
the bank haven't supplied documentation to show Mr M's card details were used to make the 
disputed transactions - or how the transactions were authenticated. Even if our service was 
provided with authentication evidence the regulations relevant to this case say that is
not, on its own, enough to enable Ffrees to hold him liable. So I also need to think about
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its reasonable for Ffrees to conclude that Mr M authorised 
the transactions. This is because:
Mr M has provided evidence that he contacted P and they confirmed that he didnt 
have an active account and the transactions were fraud. Ffrees have argued that 
Mr M did have an account with P however it was 'old'. However, they've not provided 
any evidence of this. The only evidence provided from P indicates that the charges 
weren't carried out on Mr M's account and were fraudulent. 
As Ive already highlighted Ffrees havent provided evidence to demonstrate the 
transactions were authenticated using Mr Ms card or card details.
Ffrees have explained that Mr M hasn't made any payments to P before. This 
supports Mr Ms argument that although he might have an old P account hes not 
made any payments to the merchant before.  
Ffrees have also argued that Mr M's explained his brother carried out the transactions. I've 
not seen a copy of the email the bank are referring to - as this hasn't been provided to our 
service - and I've listened to the call recordings provided by the bank and I havent been able 
to identify when Mr M suggested his brother carried them out. Instead, I'm satisfied Mr M 
was clear in saying he didn't think a family member had completed the transactions. Even if 
a family member did carry out the disputed transactions, as the transactions were carried out 
online using the long card number, if Mr M didn't consent to the transactions under the 
relevant regulations he wouldn't be liable.
Although I appreciate the majority of Mr Ms distress has been caused by the fraudster, I 
also think that Ffrees has contributed to the stress caused to Mr M by the poor service 
provided, including a failure to effectively investigate the fraudulent transactions and provide 
updates on their investigation. This led to Mr M phoning Ffrees on numerous occasions for 
guidance and updates. And as a consequence he was caused inconvenience  for this 
reason I think a small compensation payment of £200 is appropriate. 
Putting things right
I direct Contis Financial Services Limited to:
refund Mr M £1,100.47 plus 8% interest from the date of the transactions to the time 
settlement is made
pay Mr M £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Contis Financial Services Limited to 
put things right as Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman