DRN-3493638
The complaint
Mr Is complaint is about a mortgage he holds with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). He is 
unhappy that BoS declined his request to add a new fixed interest rate product to the 
mortgage in September 2021 because the account was in arrears. Mr I considers BoS is 
treating him unfairly as a lower interest rate would make his mortgage more affordable.
What happened
In 2004 Mr I took out a mortgage with BoS. Shortly thereafter Mr I started to experience 
financial difficulties and the mortgage went into arrears. While there were points where the 
arrears reduced slightly, the overall trend, especially from 2013 has been a steady increase 
in the arrears balance. By the end of August 2021, the arrears were approximately £80,000.
Mr I has told us that he asked BoS for a new fixed interest rate product in September 2021, 
as he was by that point able to pay the contractual monthly payments (CMP) again. Hes told 
us that BoS rejected his request due to the arrears on the account. BoS notes of the 
conversation detail that BoS did an income and expenditure exercise and established that 
Mr Is outgoings were higher than his income by almost £900 per month. As such, BoS 
concluded it wasnt able to put anything in place to assist him at that time because nothing it 
could suggest would be affordable. 
While Mr I had paid the CMP in August 2021, between April 2020 and July 2021 hed been 
in a payment arrangement where hed only paid £500 each month, which was less than a 
third of the CMP.
Mr I raised this issue with our investigator while an earlier complaint was being dealt with. As 
the complaint hadnt been raised with BoS at that point, we informed it of Mr Is concerns.
BoS responded to Mr Is complaint, but didnt uphold it. It explained that it was not in a 
position to offer him a fixed term product, as it wouldnt tie him into such a product while he 
was experiencing financial difficulties. This was because any such product would be subject 
to an early repayment charge (ERC). In the event that the mortgage was unaffordable and 
the property had to be sold or repossessed, an ERC would be incurred, which was not a 
position BoS would want to put a customer in. As such, BoS didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with the response he received from BoS and referred the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator considered the evidence, but he didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. In summary, he wasnt persuaded that in Mr Is circumstances that 
giving him a new interest rate product would be enough to materially benefit him, as his 
income was such that he still wouldnt be able to afford the mortgage and deal with the 
arrears. In addition, the downside of having to pay an ERC if the mortgage was paid off, 
which seemed a possibility, could make Mr Is situation worse. The investigator didnt 
consider BoS had acted unfairly.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this stage, I would confirm to Mr I that this decision will only comment on the matter of 
whether BoS treated him fairly and reasonably when he spoke to it in September 2021 about 
what it could do to help him. However, I would confirm that I am aware of the history of the 
mortgage and the substance of his previous complaints. 
Firstly, I would explain that when a borrower is unable to consistently afford their mortgage 
payments as a result of ill health or financial difficulty, lenders are required to treat them 
fairly  taking into account the borrowers specific circumstances. So, I have thought about 
whether BoS did that in September 2021 when Mr I asked for assistance.
BoS would have taken into account Mr Is payment history when assessing what it was able 
to do to help him. The arrears on the account had been steadily increasing for years and, 
while Mr I had maintained the recent payment arrangement, that had been for an amount of 
less than a third of the CMP. While a new rate would have reduced the CMP, it wouldnt 
have been reduced to the amount Mr I had been able to maintain under the payment 
arrangement. The one recent payment hed made at that point of the full CMP wasnt 
enough to evidence that it would be affordable regularly going forward.
In addition, when BoS asked Mr I about his circumstances in order to assess his financial 
position, this identified that his outgoings were significantly higher than his income by almost 
£900. While this makes it clear that Mr I had been prioritising making what payments he 
could to his mortgage, the income and expenditure analysis showed that the mortgage 
wasnt affordable, especially so if the arrears were to be addressed over the remaining 
seven years of the term. A new interest rate product wouldnt have solved the underlying 
problem. 
There is then the fact that while a fixed interest rate product lowers the monthly payments, it 
potentially comes with a downside too. A fixed rate includes an ERC, which can be a 
substantial amount if the mortgage is paid off due to the property being sold. Mr I had 
previously mentioned selling the property. Given the level of arrears and Mr Is income 
shortfall, it was realistic to think that either Mr I or BoS could decide the mortgage wasnt 
sustainable, which would involve the property being sold and an ERC incurred. 
I am not persuaded that, based on what was known in September 2021, a new fixed interest 
rate product would have made the mortgage fully affordable. Also, as the arrears were 
substantial there was an increased risk of the mortgage coming to an end, one way or 
another. As such, I dont consider BoS treated Mr I unfairly in not providing him with a new 
fixed interest rate product. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I Am required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman