DRN-1699972
The complaint
Ms G complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Ms G took out a store card in at a branch in March 2003. At the time she was not sold a PPI 
policy. PPI was added to the store card following a telephone call in June 2003.
The PPI cost £1.50 per month for every £100 outstanding on the card balance. It wouldve 
paid a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance each month if Ms G was unable to 
work due to ill- health, an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either Ms 
G returned to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Gs complaint should be upheld.
Ms G didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 17 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why. AXA had to make it clear to Ms 
G that the PPI was optional.
Ms G was sold the PPI during a telephone call. After so many years it isnt surprising that 
there is no call recording available. AXA has shown us example scripts from around the time 
of the sale which show the PPI should have been presented as being optional. I cant know 
what Ms G was told during the call or how closely the AXA representative followed any 
script. But Ms G had already received the store card without taking out PPI. So, I think Ms G 
would have known she didnt have to agree to add PPI to the account. And the PPI 
premiums would likely have appeared on Ms Gs statements after the telephone call.
After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Ms G didnt 
have to take out the PPI, and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after so many years.I dont think AXA advised Ms G to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Ms G clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it is 
unlikely the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need 
to decide whether or not Ms G would have changed her mind about buying the policy if she 
had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done. I say this 
because.
Ms G was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
If Ms G couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every month 
until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. And it wouldve paid the same benefit 
if Ms G lost her job.
Ms G would have received some sick pay from her employer if she became too unwell to 
work. But the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to her sick pay. And potentially it 
could have paid a benefit for longer than her full sick pay would last. So, I still think Ms G 
could have found the policy useful, particularly if she had been unable to work for a 
prolonged period.
And the policy would mean Ms G didnt have to dip into her savings or rely on family to help 
pay the monthly repayments.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Ms G wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Ms G has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Ms G was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Ms G had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint against AXA France IARD.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman