DRN-1252685
 
The complaint
Mr S says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1992 and bought a PPI policy at the 
same time.
Mr S paid around £17 a month for the policy. I understand it wouldve paid a monthly benefit 
of just under £300 for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim he made.
Mr S says, among other things, he was coerced into taking out the PPI. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ss complaint didnt uphold it. Mr S disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Bradford & Bingley needed to make it clear to Mr S he had a choice about PPI and get his 
agreement to it. Mr S says he was told his mortgage approval would be significantly 
enhanced if he took out PPI. He says he was a fit and healthy young man at the time and 
didnt need it but felt coerced and decided he had no option but to have it.
Bradford & Bingley says it has never represented PPI as anything other than an option for its 
customers. And it says its decision whether to lend to a customer has never been dependent 
on whether or not a customer took out PPI.
Where, as in this case, I have conflicting evidence, I have to decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened based on that evidence and the surrounding circumstances. I can see 
from a copy I have of Mr Ss signed mortgage application form that it has a section about 
PPI. In it, there is a yes written in a box to say Mr S wants PPI. Its clear from the 
application form theres an option to say no. A box has also been ticked to say Mr S wants 
cover for accident, illness and unemployment (theres another option to tick for accident and 
illness only). And the amount of the cover has been set at £290.Ive also looked at a copy of Mr Ss mortgage offer. Theres nothing in it that says the offer is 
conditional on him taking out PPI.
So from the paperwork Ive got, it looks to me like there was a discussion about PPI between 
Bradford & Bingley and Mr S, that Mr S wouldve known he had a choice about PPI and that 
he agreed to it. That doesnt mean, though, that he wasnt pressured into buying it during the 
meeting at which he says the sale of the PPI took place. But the evidence Ive got  which is 
essentially what Mr S says happened  isnt clear enough or strong enough on its own and 
without anything else to back it up for me to think it more likely than not Bradford & Bingley 
placed unfair pressure on Mr S so that he had no real choice about the PPI. Mr S says he 
was told it was a good policy and the cost was reasonable compared to others out there. 
These things are subjective but that doesnt sound to me like a hard, pressured sales 
process. And bearing in mind that Mr S was a young man taking on a significant new and 
long-term financial commitment, I can understand why a representative mightve tried to 
persuade him that PPI to protect his mortgage was a good idea.
So, on balance, and based on the evidence I have, I dont think its likely Bradford & Bingley 
pressured Mr S into buying the PPI. And I do think its likely, at the time, he was persuaded 
the PPI would be good for him and so he chose it.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Ss complaint but I 
dont think there are. Mr S says Bradford & Bingley recommended the PPI to him. Bradford & 
Bingley says it didnt. Even if I assume Bradford & Bingley did recommend it  meaning it 
needed to make sure the PPI was right for Mr S in his particular circumstances  I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold. I say this because, based on what Mr S has told us of his 
circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got:
Mr S was eligible for the PPI. He was also working and in good health, so it doesnt 
seem he wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions and limitations we 
commonly see in these policies. That means thered have been nothing to stop him 
claiming the full policy benefit if hed needed to.
I think Mr S couldve found the policy useful if things had got difficult for him. I say 
this especially bearing in mind his mortgage was a long-term and significant financial 
commitment and his home was at risk of he fell behind with his mortgage 
repayments. Mr S says he got some sick pay at the time. But the PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of his sick pay and I think it wouldve lasted for longer than his full sick pay 
did. The PPI would also have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr S lost 
his job. 
Mr S has also said his family wouldve helped him if necessary. And Im sure they 
wouldve done, if they could. But peoples circumstances can change and help like 
this cant always be guaranteed so it isnt the same as having an insurance policy to 
fall back on.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr S couldnt afford the policy, which he 
couldve cancelled at any time without penalty.
Bradford & Bingley needed to give Mr S clear enough information about the PPI for him to be 
able to make an informed decision about whether he wanted it. I dont know what steps 
Bradford & Bingley took to do this  and its possible it didnt make some things as clear as it 
couldve. But I dont think clearer information, if it had been needed, is likely to have stopped 
Mr S going ahead with it. As Ive said, on balance, I think its likely he agreed to it knowing 
he didnt have to and without unfair pressure being applied. And it looks to me as if it was 
suitable for him.
So I dont think Mr S has lost out because of anything Bradford & Bingley has done wrong 
which means theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman