DRN-3747504
The complaint
Mr H, representing the estate of Mrs H and Mr H, complains about the service Nationwide 
Building Society provided when Mrs H sadly passed away.
What happened
Mr Hs parents held a joint bank account with Nationwide. Following the sad loss of Mrs H in 
October 2021, Nationwide closed the account in error.
Prior to the account being closed Mr H applied to have his name added to the account  so 
he would hold the joint account with his father.
As the bank account shouldve remained open, in Mr Hs fathers name, Nationwide 
corrected the error in November 2021 by opening a new bank account and transferring the 
balance. 
However, Mr H wasnt a personal representative for his mother and didnt have Power of 
Attorney for his father, so Nationwide said he needed to complete a new form to have his 
name added to the account. In addition, Nationwide said they couldnt discuss account 
information with Mr H.
When setting up the new bank account, Nationwide required Mr Hs father to reinstate direct 
debits and standing orders for the new account and, as Mr Hs father was in hospital, Mr H 
found this both a difficult and stressful task. In addition, Mr H said payments made from the 
account were returned to payee and this aggravated the situation. 
Mr H tried to conduct important transactions on behalf of his father but, as he wasnt yet 
named on the new bank account, Nationwide placed a block on the account.
When Nationwide wrote to Mr H, they made an administrative error incorrectly saying that 
his father had passed away. As Mr Hs father was in hospital this caused Mr H distress at a 
time when he was organising his mothers funeral.
In December, Mr Hs father sadly passed away and, as Nationwide hadnt yet added Mr H to 
the account, this was no longer possible.
Mr H complained to Nationwide about the amount of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Nationwide recognised they had made errors, apologised and paid Mr H £350 
compensation. However, Mr H feels this is an inadequate amount and complained to our 
service.
Our investigator initially awarded £500 compensation. However, she subsequently advised 
Mr H that she couldnt award compensation to a third party and didnt feel she could ask 
Nationwide to do any more than it has done.
As Mr H remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my condolences to Mr H.  I can see that Mr H suffered both 
inconvenience and distress during the course of his dealings with Nationwide which wouldve 
been upsetting and frustrating for him during such a difficult time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H here, as although Nationwide recognise theyve made errors 
and have paid some compensation, there are limits to our ability to help. This is because 
there are rules that apply to this service. These are known as DISP rules, set by the industry 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority), which are available on-line and they explain who 
is eligible to complain to this service. 
In the circumstances here, the eligible complainant is the late Mrs H and Mr H who had a 
relevant relationship with Nationwide. So, while Mr H is entitled to represent Mrs H and Mr 
Hs estate in bringing this complaint, we can only consider it in terms of the impact on the 
estate as an entity, separate to Mr H. 
So, despite Mr Hs submissions and my empathy for the service he experienced, including 
processing delays that prevented him being named on the account, were unable to consider 
any complaint from Mr H as an individual about the impact of Nationwides errors on him. 
And, for me to tell Nationwide to do something more, I have to be satisfied that its failings 
had an impact on the estate. However, as an estate cant feel distress or be upset, I cant 
compensate it for any emotional impact. 
Also, regarding the inconvenience Nationwide caused I cant say that there is an impact on 
Mr H and Mrs Hs estate. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and 
upset experienced by its customer, not by a third party.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, Im not asking Nationwide 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mrs 
H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman