DRN-2880750
The complaint
Miss J said Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly gave her loans that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Loans 2 Go gave Miss J two loans follows:   
Date taken Date paid Amount Term Monthly repayment
Loan 
112/06/2020 2.7.20 £250 18 months £57.14
Loan 
209/07/2020 Not known £450 18 months £102.85
Miss J complained that she was borrowing from one lender to pay off another and said she 
became dependent on the loans. 
When Loans 2 Go first looked at Miss Js complaint, it said that it had carried out full 
affordability checks on both loans which showed that Miss J had enough disposable income 
to afford the loan repayments. And it said its credit checks gave no indication that she was in 
financial hardship. So  it didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Miss J was unhappy with this response and she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator felt that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Loans 2 Go to 
provide loan 1 to Miss J  so she didnt uphold that part of Miss Js complaint. But our 
adjudicator thought that loan 2 shouldnt have been lent because Loans 2 Go didnt do 
enough to ensure it had a detailed understanding of Miss Js financial position to assess 
whether shed be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended loan term. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It sent us further details explaining the 
affordability checks it carried out and said that Miss Js credit reports were on the whole very 
positive. It said Miss J was up to date with payments on her credit commitments and so it 
had no reason to conduct further checks and review her bank statements prior to approving 
the borrowing, as it could be seen that she was manging her finances.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Loans 2 Go should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Miss Js complaint.
As far as I can see, Miss J hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1, 
except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about this loan.  
I've taken into account that Miss J had paid her first loan early  and without any apparent 
payment problems. And I accept that the information Loans 2 Go gathered about Miss Js 
income and expenditure appeared to show that she should be able to afford the monthly 
repayments. But whilst the credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out indicated that Miss J wasnt 
involved in any formal arrangement with creditors or bankrupt or in a debt management plan 
I think Loans 2 Go could see some information that should have concerned a responsible 
lender. Loans 2 Go was aware that Miss J was applying for her second loan just a week or so after 
she paid loan 1  and this time she was asking to borrow significantly more. Its recent credit 
check showed Loans 2 Go that Miss J was up to her £1,500 overdraft limit at the bank and 
she also had two credit cards very close to their limits. She also had a substantial balance 
owing on a loan taken out with a communication supplier. 
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable to Loans 2 Go, I think all this information 
included clear warning signs that Miss J might be experiencing financial difficulty. 
Given that Miss J was going to be making monthly repayments that were almost twice the 
amount she had expected to pay for loan 1, and she was signing up to make these 
repayments for the next 18 months, I think that Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it needed 
to carry out more in-depth enquiries and checks to ensure that it had a proper understanding 
of her financial situation.
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Miss J has provided her bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 
Go was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. 
Loans 2 Go could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to 
carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other 
evidence, I think the bank statements Miss J has sent me give a reasonable insight into her 
finances at the time. 
And had Loans 2 Go done proportionate checking it would likely have seen that she was 
facing serious problems managing her money. 
I think it would have learnt that Miss J was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be online gambling transactions. 
And it would have seen that it looked like she already had loans outstanding with at least 
three other providers of high cost credit. 
So I think Loans 2 Go shouldve seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to realise 
that loan 2 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss J and so it shouldnt have 
provided it. 
For these reasons, as things stand, Im planning on upholding the complaint about loan 2.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Miss J and Loans 2 Go have told me that they have nothing further to add and will 
await my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to 
my provisional decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint about loan 2 for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss J to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has had to pay interest (and possibly charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been 
provided to her  which is unfair.
As I still dont know the current status of loan 2, Im setting out the steps Loans 2 Go should 
take according to whether or not there is any balance currently owing on loan 2.  
If Loan 2 isnt paid and Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if 
able to do so and then take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following in respect of loan 2:
remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 2, and treat any repayments 
made by Miss J as though they had been repayments of the principal loan 
amount. 
If there is still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should try to agree an 
affordable repayment arrangement with Miss J - bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
Or, if this results in Miss J having made overpayments, then those overpayments 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled and paid to Miss J.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file in relation to 
loan 2 when it is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
If loan 2 is paid, then Loans 2 Go should:
A) refund everything Miss J paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to 
Miss J with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file in relation to the 
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decisionI partly uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Miss J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman