DRN-4428566
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) 
closed his account.
What happened
Mr M attended a branch of Virgin Money to pay in £400 to deposit into his account and pay 
off his credit card. Mr M says that the staff members took exception to him paying with coins 
and was told there was a limit on how many coins he could pay in each visit. Mr M says he 
was told to put the coins in a bag, but he says the members of staff refused to provide him 
with a receipt to confirm how much money hed paid in.
Mr M says he raised a complaint about this, and subsequently discovered that Virgin Money 
was closing his accounts. Mr M says that he didnt receive a letter informing him of the 
account closure as it was incorrectly addressed.
Mr M says that after a visit to the Virgin Money branch when he discovered that his account 
was being closed, the police were called to his house, as they had received a complaint from 
Virgin Money that he was intimidating the branch staff.
After Mr M referred his complaint to this service, one of our investigators assessed the 
complaint and they were unable to conclude that Virgin Money had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
As a financial business, Virgin Money is able to decide who it wants to provide accounts and 
services to  in much the same way that Mr M is free to decide who he banks with. But its 
also entitled to decide whether it wants to continue providing customers with accounts and 
services on an ongoing basis. 
This is reflected in Virgin Moneys account terms and conditions which say: 
We can close your account whenever we like 
As long as we write to you or email you to let you know two months before it closes. 
If we close your account, we'll try to send the money in your account to you together 
with any interest.
We can also close your account without telling you first. Well only do this if we have 
good reason to think that:

Youve been threatening to any of our team.
So based on the above, in general Virgin Money can close an account providing two months 
notice is given. Alternatively, it can close an account immediately, if it has reason to think 
that, amongst other things, an account holder has been threatening to staff.
In this case, I can see that Virgin Money decided to end its banking relationship with 
Mr M. I understand this was because branch staff felt intimidated by Mr M, after it seems 
hed become frustrated that not enough tills were open to serve customers. So Ive 
considered whether Virgin Money has made that decision fairly in the circumstances. 
In terms of the behaviour that Virgin Money has objected to, I recognise that Mr M disputes 
what happened and says he is totally innocent to this charge of intimidation. Mr M says that 
it is the other way round and that he was harassed by the branch manager. 
Due to the evidence that is available, I cant be sure of what exactly occurred or indeed, who 
said what. Where thats the case, I have to decide whats more likely than not to have 
happened based on the balance of the evidence that is available to me. 
Mr M says that he attempted to pay in £400 worth of coins in August 2022, and was taken 
into an office where he was told to put the coins into a large bag so it could be counted in 
another branch. Mr M says he asked for a receipt and his request was refused. Mr M says 
he raised a complaint, but didnt get a response to his complaint and later discovered that his 
account was being closed. Mr M says that he was harassed by the branch manager and was 
either ignored or refused to be served when he was queuing up. 
Conversely, Virgin Money says that Mr M was abusive to staff, especially after he was 
directed to use an express deposit money machine to pay money in. Virgin Money says that 
Mr Ms behaviour had been unacceptable on a number of occasions, resulting in staff being 
intimidated by him. It says this is why the decision was taken to close Mr Ms account and 
was why the police were called about his behaviour in branch. 
Having considered the competing testimonies, its clear that things become heated when 
Mr M was in branch. And it also seems that Virgin Money had concerns about Mr Ms 
behaviour more than once, rather than just the times that Mr M refers to (when he attempted 
to pay £400 in, or when he discovered his account was closed). 
In the circumstances, it does appear that staff members felt intimidated by Mr M   
Mr M may not have intended that to be the case and was perhaps just frustrated with the 
circumstances. But having considered everything, I find it unlikely that Virgin Money 
wouldve taken the decision to close Mr Ms account  who was a long-standing customer - 
unless it had genuine concerns about his behaviour in branch. 
I dont think the account was closed just because Mr M wanted to keep paying in a large 
number of coins into his account, as his more recent responses to this service seem to 
imply. I also think the fact a member of staff went to the lengths of calling the police about a 
customer does indicate that Mr Ms behaviour was, in all likelihood, unreasonable. I say this 
as I dont think that branch staff would take the decision to call the police lightly. Mr M may 
see that as disproportionate, but equally  I have to be impartial and consider that Virgin 
Moneys member of staff felt that was an appropriate step. So, in the circumstances, I think 
Virgin Money was, on balance, entitled to take the steps it did and to decide to close 
Mr Ms account. Once this decision had been made - Virgin Money wrote to Mr M in August 2022 and 
explained that it would close his account in two months. Although this letter looks to have 
been issued in line with Virgin Moneys terms and conditions, it seems that Mr M didnt 
receive this letter, as there was a typo in the post code on the letter. In the circumstances, it 
was clearly unfortunate that Mr M didnt receive this letter and it appears he only found out 
about his account being closed when he visited a Virgin Money branch. 
Although Virgin Money clearly made a mistake in including the wrong postcode in its letter, I 
dont think this means I should uphold the complaint. I say this because firstly, even if Mr M 
had received the letter, the outcome would be the same and his account would still have 
been closed when it was. Furthermore, Mr M has not said that he incurred any additional 
inconvenience by not receiving the closure notice letter - other than the inconvenience he 
wouldve incurred anyway (such as having to open an account elsewhere) due to his 
account being closed. Although I recognise that there wouldve been added urgency for 
Mr M to open an account with another financial business.  
I also think its the case that, as Virgin Money had decided to close Mr Ms account because 
of his behaviour towards staff in branch, Virgin Money couldve closed Mr Ms account 
without providing any notice. That would have been in line with the terms here. So, in the 
circumstances I cant reasonably say that Virgin Money has acted unfairly or unreasonably, 
even if Mr M didnt receive the notice to close letter. 
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration with the actions of Virgin Money, and he may feel it has 
overacted  or is being unreasonable. But in the circumstances, Im satisfied Virgin Money 
was reasonably entitled to close Mr Ms account and acted in line with its terms and 
conditions by doing so.
Because of this, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Virgin Money to reinstate 
Mr Ms account. Nor can I reasonably say that Virgin Money should pay Mr M compensation 
because he is unhappy with its decision to close his account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman