DRN-3668752
The complaint
M, a limited company, has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic.
A representative has brought the complaint on Ms behalf but for simplicity I shall just refer to 
M throughout.
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on the policy for its 
business interruption losses caused by Covid-19 after it was required to close its premises 
due to lockdown restrictions. Allianz declined the claim. It said M wasnt covered for its 
losses as the definition of specified illness in the policy didnt include Covid-19. It didnt 
think any other part of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of the claim.
M disagreed. It said the list of diseases in the policy wasnt an exhaustive list as it referred to 
the statutory framework for notifying certain diseases to a competent local authority. It also 
considered that it had a claim under the section of the policy that covered closure of the 
premises due to prevention of access by the police authority.
Allianz didnt change its decision. It also said Ms premises had been forced to close as a 
result of government restrictions as opposed to the police authority.
M referred its complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
didnt think Allianz had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
M asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic had an impact on Ms business. But I dont intend to 
uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ms claim.
The core business interruption in the policy covers business interruption caused by damage 
to the property used by the insured at the premises by one of the events covered under the 
policy. The events listed in the policy include events such as fire, storm and flood. 
Regardless of the event there has to be damage to property in order for a claim to be valid.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Ms property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to Ms property. So, I dont 
think the claim was covered under this part of the policy.
There is also cover for business interruption loss caused by damage to property in the 
immediate vicinity of the insured premises which prevented or hindered the use of or 
access to the premises. Again, there must have been damage to property. Since I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the immediate 
vicinity of Ms premises either, I dont think this part of the policy covers the claim.
Another part of the policy says:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from interruption or 
interference with the Business as a result of prevention of access to the Premises by the 
Police Authority due to a danger or disturbance within a one (1) mile radius of the 
Premises.
The term Police Authority isnt defined in the policy. So, I think it should be interpreted in 
line with the normal everyday usage of this term and I think it would be commonly 
understood to refer to the police.
M has said that had it remained open, or reopened, during the lockdown period it would 
have been closed by the police. This may be true. However, it is not what did happen. M 
closed its business following the coming into force of government-imposed restrictions. So, I 
dont think it can be said that Ms premises were closed because access was prevented by 
the police. I am only able to reach my decision based on the circumstances of this 
complaint, rather than what might have happened in different circumstances.
I have also considered the detailed points Ms representative has made about why he thinks 
this extension should provide cover. He has referred me to the case of Corbin & King & 
others v AXA Insurance UK plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm). In that case the High Court 
considered the scope of insurance cover provided by a prevention of access extension. It 
looked at policy wording where access to the premises was prevented by actions taken by 
the police or any other statutory body in response to a danger or disturbance at [the] 
premises or within a 1 mile radius of [the] premises and other similar wording.
However, the Court did not have to decide whether the lockdown restrictions amounted to 
action of the police authority because in the policy wording it looked at there were 
references to other statutory body or similar wording which would include the Government. 
I think the extension in Ms policy was intended to provide cover in the event of access to 
the premises being prevented by the police. As I dont think the closure of Ms premises was 
due to this, I think Allianz acted reasonably in declining the claim under this part of the 
policy.
Lastly the policy covered M for loss resulting from any occurrence of a Specified Illness at 
the Premises. Specified Illness is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting froma  food or drink poisoning, or
b acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal infection, Mumps, 
Ophthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping cough or Yellow 
fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ms policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
diseases. 
M has argued that the list of diseases is not a closed list on the basis that the words an 
outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them 
imply that the listed diseases come from the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 
2010 as opposed to a static list of diseases defined by the policy. However, the specified 
diseases listed in these regulations include a number of diseases such as acute meningitis, 
botulism and SARS which are not included within the definition of Specified Illness in the 
policy. That implies to me that Allianz had decided to offer cover for some notifiable 
diseases and not others. Some diseases which were notifiable for some time before Covid-
19 are not included in the above list. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as 
covering any new diseases just because they are notifiable diseases. 
M has referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in the test case of The Financial 
Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 which it alleges is 
relevant to this aspect of its complaint. However, Ms policy has a definitive list of specified 
diseases and this kind of clause wasnt the subject of the test case.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome M was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman