DRN-3600810
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as P, complains about the decision of Society of Lloyds 
when settling its business interruption insurance claim, following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the events. Any reference to Society of 
Lloyds includes both their underwriters and agents. 
P held a business insurance policy provided by Society of Lloyds. The policy provided cover 
for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. P claimed on the policy for 
losses it suffered following the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Society of Lloyds ultimately confirmed there was cover under the policy for the claim, and 
agreed a comparative period to be used to calculate the loss. However, the policy provided 
cover for loss of gross profit, and Society of Lloyds said that this did not include any 
savings P made during this period. As such, Society of Lloyds deducted the sum P had 
received in payments from the Coronavirus Job Retentions Scheme  commonly referred to 
as furlough payments. 
P was unhappy with this. It did not feel that furlough payments should be deducted from the 
settlement. P said this was not in keeping with the Governments intentions for the scheme 
and other businesses that did not have valid insurance claims were able to keep the furlough 
payments, so P was being disadvantaged. 
P referred its complaint about this to the Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator did not think 
the complaint should be upheld though. She felt that the furlough payments were a saving of 
a sum that P would otherwise have had to make, and so Society of Lloyds was entitled to 
deduct this from the settlement of the claim. 
P remained unhappy and its complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on P, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators. 
This complaint is largely limited to determining whether it is fair and reasonable for Society of 
Lloyds to deduct the furlough payment P received from the settlement of its claim.
The relevant part of Ps policy contains a calculation for working out the size of the 
settlement of a claim. After describing how the reduction in turnover is initially calculated, it 
says the final settlement is this amount:
less any sum saved during the indemnity period in respect of such of the charges 
and expenses of the business payable out of gross profit as may cease or be 
reduced in consequence of the incident.
Other amounts, such as the excess are also deductible. 
Society of Lloyds has said that furlough payments are a saving. So, effectively, I need to 
determine whether they are a sum saved in respect of the expenses P would have had to 
pay, that were not payable because of the pandemic. 
Furlough payments were paid to businesses by the Government to cover part the cost of 
paying employees. They could not be used for any other purpose (albeit the timing of the 
relevant payments may have meant businesses had already paid staff, and the furlough 
payments acted as a refund of these amounts). Paying employees their wages is an 
expense P would normally have. As a result of the furlough payments, P saved on having to 
pay these wages. So, I consider this can only reasonably be described as a saving on the 
business expenses. 
The reason for Ps claim was  in simple terms  the COVID-19 pandemic. The Government 
introduced the furlough payments scheme as a result of this pandemic. So, it follows that the 
saving on Ps normal expenses was a consequence of the cause of its claim. 
Based on this, it seems clear that Society of Lloyds was entitled to calculate Ps settlement 
taking into account the furlough payments being a saving  i.e. to deduct these from the 
settlement. 
I also note the judgment of the court in Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and others 
[2022] EWHC 2549 (Comm), as well as other related judgments. In Stonegate, the court 
considered whether the relevant policyholder in the case should have the furlough payments 
they received deducted from their insurance settlement. So, whilst the court made its 
judgment based on the particular terms of the policy etc. I do consider the judgment to be a 
relevant consideration in Ps case. 
The judge in Stonegate determined that furlough payments were deductible from the 
relevant claim settlement, saying at para 270:
"...I hold that the CJRS [furlough] payments did reduce costs payable out of Turnover 
and are to be taken into account under the savings clause."
The clause in question is similar to that in Ps policy, so I think this judgment supports my 
own conclusion in this complaint. 
I do note Ps comments that it was not the Governments intention to reduce the amount 
insurers had to pay out on claims. And that businesses without a valid claim would receive 
the furlough payments.
However, insurance is designed to put customers back in the position they would have been 
in had the insured event not happened. Had the pandemic not happened, P would have had 
to pay its employees their wages and would not have received any pay-out from the 
Government to cover these costs. By reducing the settlement by the amount of the furlough 
payment, Society of Lloyds is putting P back in this position. It has had to pay its employees 
wages, but has also received the (insured) income it might otherwise have. 
The fact that other, uninsured businesses have had the losses they incurred as a result of the pandemic partly reduced, does not mean that it would be fair for Society of Lloyds to 
insure P for a cost that it would always have had. 
Again, this is supported by the judge in the Stonegate judgment, who also went on to 
consider the situation more broadly and in doing so also discussed the intentions of the 
Government. At para. 286 he said:
As to the intention of the Government in paying, Stonegate [the policyholder] has not 
shown that this was with the intention of benefiting Stonegate alone to the exclusion 
of insurers. There is no express statement by the Government to that effect. The 
Government did not indicate that the payment was being made only in respect of 
uninsured losses.
Ultimately, taking all of the circumstances into account, I am unable to fairly and reasonably 
say that Society of Lloyds acted inappropriately in deducting the amount of the furlough 
payments P received, relevant to the indemnity period, from the settlement of its claim. 
I know this decision will be disappointing for P and its director, but I hope Ive provided them 
with a thorough explanation of why I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman