DRN-3808107
The complaint
Mr G complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have closed his current account and he wants it 
to be reinstated. Mr G also wants the default removed from his credit file. 
Background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 October 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was minded to increase the payment 
for distress and inconvenience were set out in that decision. A copy is below and it forms 
part of this final decision. 
What happened
Mr G says due to health reasons he had trouble finding work and as a result he has been 
unable to pay off his overdraft. 
Mr G contacted the bank in September to discuss the daily overdraft fee since it was 
becoming unaffordable. Mr G says he was told if Lloyds started the account closure process 
the overdraft fees would be frozen, and he could then contact Lloyds at any time up until 29 
October to cancel the closure process. 
Mr G went into branch on 28 October to pay some money in and asked about the status of 
the account. Mr G says he was told there were no notes on the account saying it was to be 
closed, or that the overdraft was to be removed. Mr G asked for a note to be left on the 
account to confirm he didnt want it to close.  
In early November Mr G received a message from Lloyds to confirm he was using an 
unarranged overdraft. Mr G spent a number of hours trying to resolve the matter with Lloyds 
over the telephone. Lloyds told Mr G the account was being closed and the overdraft 
removed. It did explain Mr G would be able to access his benefit payment whilst on holiday if 
he contacted the bank on the day the payment was received. 
Mr G contacted the bank while he was on holiday to access his benefit payment. Lloyds told 
him he would be unable to access the funds. Mr G was on hold for a period of time and then 
the call was disconnected. And so he was unable to access the funds he needed to pay his 
rent. 
Mr G attended his local branch when he returned from holiday and the staff assisted him in 
accessing the funds. Mr G was also told he would be able to arrange to put something in 
place to pay the overdraft in instalments if he contacted Lloyds by telephone. 
Mr G contacted Lloyds in early December to arrange a payment plan to reduce the overdraft 
in instalments and keep the account open. Mr G was told he wasnt able to keep the account 
open unless he repaid the overdraft in full before the account was closed. 
Mr G complained to Lloyds. Lloyds agreed with Mr G that when he attended the branch he 
was led to believe his account wasnt closing when in fact it was. And so Lloyds offered to 
pay Mr G £25 to make up for this. Lloyds also refunded £86.27 in arranged overdraft interest 
applied since November 2017 since this wouldnt have been applied if Lloyds had closed the 
account when it should have done. Mr G wasnt happy with the response from Lloyds and so 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she could see Mr G had been in some 
financial difficulty since November 2017 and that when Lloyds carried out the income and 
expenditure with him there wasnt any surplus funds it could consider. The investigator 
acknowledged the difficult time Mr G had clearly had but thought Lloyds had acted within the 
terms and conditions of the account and were under an obligation to report the default to the 
credit agencies. Mr G didnt agree and asked the investigator to listen to the calls he had 
with Lloyds. 
The investigator listened to the calls provided by Lloyds. And whilst she empathised with the 
situation Mr G found himself in the calls didnt change her opinion of the complaint. And so 
Mr G asked that his complaint be referred to an Ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling about the banks decision to close his account. 
However, his agreement with Lloyds entitled either party to terminate banking facilities. My 
role here is to see whether Lloyds have acted fairly and unreasonably, in line with its terms 
and conditions. 
Closing the account 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. Before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way which complies 
with the terms and conditions of that account. So my starting point is the terms and 
conditions which would have been agreed at the outset of opening the account. Within them 
is the following, There are limited circumstances where we can close a Basic Account and 
it sets out a number of reasons where it is able to do this. The terms go on to say if Lloyds 
decide to close an account it, will write to you at least two months before, explaining our 
position.  And that is what Lloyds did here. 
Lloyds told Mr G it was going to close his account but following that he received conflicting 
information about whether his account was closing and whether he could take steps to 
prevent the closure. 
I can see and understand that Mr G would have found this matter frustrating and he was left 
without an explanation about why the account closed. And he was given conflicting 
information about the status of the account. But ultimately Lloyds was entitled to close the 
account and acted within the terms and conditions when it so. As such I dont think it acted 
unfairly. 
Account access 
Ive looked at what happened in this case and at the timeline of events. Mr Gs account was 
closed in September. Mr G only became aware of this when he received a text message 
saying he was using an unarranged overdraft in October. Mr Gs benefit payment was being 
paid into his account and since he wasnt aware the account was closing he wasnt able to 
arrange for the payment to be paid into an alternative account. He was told he would be able to access the funds when they were paid into his closed account. But when Mr G contacted 
the bank to access the funds he was told he wouldnt be able to have access to the funds. I 
can see from the evidence provided to me that Mr G was provided with inconsistent 
information regarding the funds, and he had to attend the branch on a number of occasions 
and make numerous lengthy calls. 
I can see Mr G is very frustrated the bank has chosen to close the account without 
explanation, and then caused him further inconvenience with poor service when he was 
trying to resolve the issues with the overdraft and then trying to access the funds. But my 
role here is to determine this complaint based on what is fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances. Having looked at all the evidence I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong in 
closing the account and acted within the terms and conditions in removing the overdraft 
facility. 
Overdraft 
The terms and conditions state that, all overdrafts are subject to application and approval. 
They are repayable on demand. 
We will review your arranged overdraft regularly and can reduce or remove any limit based 
on this reviewIf any changes are to be made to your arranged overdraft limit, we will give 
you at least 30 days notice. 
And this is what Lloyds did here. On looking at the evidence Lloyds say Mr G previously had 
three 30-day holds on the account and had no expected change in circumstances in the 
future. A review of Mr Gs income and outgoings showed he had a deficit of £225 each 
month so it wasnt affordable for him to keep the bank account. It would be irresponsible for 
Lloyds continue placing holds on the account with no way to forward Mr Gs situation. And so 
in the circumstances I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to take steps to close the 
account and is what I would have expected Lloyds to do in these circumstances. 
Lloyds were aware of Mr Gs vulnerabilities when speaking to him in branch and on the 
telephone. I have listened to the calls and its clear Mr G is understandably distressed when 
trying to resolve the matter; in particular when trying to access the funds to pay his rent. Mr 
G had previously been assured he would be able to access his rent. I dont think Lloyds have 
considered the impact the poor service had on this particular customer, in his particular 
circumstances. And here I dont think Lloyds treated Mr G fairly. I dont think it 
communicated with him as it should have done. I also think Lloyds has caused Mr G 
unnecessary frustration, worry and inconvenience. Even though I think Mr Gs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld I intend to direct Lloyds to pay her £300 for trouble and upset. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Both parties agreed to the increased compensation payment. Mr G also made 
further submissions in particular he asked whether the markers on his credit report could be 
removed, and whether his account could remain open with a payment plan in place to repay 
the overdraft amount. I have considered these carefully before making my final decision. 
None of this changes my thinking about this complaint. 
We dont generally interfere in a banks decision to close a customers account. Lloyds has 
explained why the account was closed and why the overdraft facility was removed. It is generally for the bank to decide whether or not it wants to provide, or continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. Lloyds has acted within the 
terms of the account and I am unable to compel it to re-open the account as Mr G has 
suggested.
Mr G has also complained about the default recorded on his credit file. Lloyds has a 
responsibility to report financial information accurately. So I would only ask Lloyds to remove 
the record if I thought it had been registered in error. But since it is an accurate reflection of 
the account I wont be asking Lloyds to remove it. 
I have seen no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. I understand Mr 
G thinks his account should be reopened and the markers on his credit file should be 
removed. In deciding Mr Gs complaint Ive sought to understand whether Lloyds acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealing with Mr G. I have reviewed the information provided to me but I 
still conclude Lloyds didnt do anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly in closing the account. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr G £300 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I direct Lloyds Bank Plc to put things right by paying Mr G 
£300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman