DRN-3164454
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Soteria Insurance Limited declined a subsidence claim.
Mr L has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
  
What happened
Mr L was in the process of buying a property when cracks were found in the garage. The 
owner at the time began a claim with Soteria.
Soteria agreed Mr L could continue with the claim and he went through with the purchase.
Soteria appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and carry out investigations. It 
declined the claim and said, in summary:
The investigations showed the garage damage was due to subsidence from clay 
shrinkage and the moisture demand of nearby trees.
The garage was built in 1987 with a 600mm deep foundation.
Tree roots were found to a depth of 2,100mm.
Guidance provided by a certain builder of new homes, N, from 1985, indicated the 
foundations ought to have been 2,350mm deep based on the site-specific conditions.
Had the foundation been that deep, the damage wouldnt have happened.
Drainage defects were noted, and should be repaired, but arent considered to be the 
cause of the subsidence problem.
Soteria thought the loss adjuster had reached the right outcome. But it accepted there had 
been some communication delays during the claim and paid Mr L £75 compensation.
Our investigator thought Soteria had acted fairly by relying on the guidance of N to decline 
the claim.
Mr L disagreed and said, in summary:
The previous owner had said Soteria would carry on with the subsidence claim.
The policy covers subsidence without any clauses.
The garage was built around 1980 and in accordance with local planning and building 
control requirements.
Hed taken advice which said the foundation was adequate at the time.
Not all properties are subject to the guidance of N
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision which said:
At the outset I should make clear that I cant consider anything said or done by the previous 
owner  or hold Soteria responsible for that.
I havent seen any evidence to show Soteria made a commitment to Mr L to accept the 
claim, only to investigate it. Im satisfied it was clear at the time he took over the claim that 
investigations were needed in order to decide whether Soteria would accept the claim or not. 
I dont think that was unreasonable as ground and drainage investigations are often needed 
in subsidence claims to understand what the likely cause of the problem is.
Mr L says the policy covers subsidence without any clauses but thats not the case. In 
common with most home insurance policies, Soterias policy sets out the main things it 
covers, such as flood, fire, and theft. It also sets out a number of policy exclusions  
situations in which it wont provide cover. For example, whilst it covers flood damage in 
general, it doesnt cover flood damage specifically to fences, hedges or gates.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not in all circumstances. The 
subsidence section says:
What IS NOT insured  loss or damage caused by or arising from faulty workmanship, 
defective design or the use of defective materials.
Im satisfied this exclusion is contained within the policy, is clear and applies to subsidence 
claims. And its one typically found in many home insurance policies, so its not unusual.
Soteria has accepted the damage has been caused by clay shrinkage subsidence due to 
nearby trees. But it says the damage has been caused by defective design of the garage 
foundation. In summary, it doesnt think the foundation was built deep enough. The onus is 
on Soteria to show that the foundation design was defective.
The loss adjuster considered standards used by a certain builder of new homes, N. But I 
havent seen any evidence to show the garage was subject to these standards. As Mr L has 
noted, not all new build properties are built under the supervision of N  and only those that 
were would have been subject to Ns standards. Some builders and engineers may choose 
to use Ns standards. But without evidence to show this garage was subject to Ns 
standards, Im not persuaded the builder was required to follow them. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to judge the design of the foundation against Ns standards.
Its unclear exactly when the garage was built. The loss adjuster believes it was around 1987 
whilst Mr L thinks it was 1980. Although I havent seen evidence from either party on this 
point, I dont think that matters. Ill explain why.
Mr L has made enquiries with the local council about whether the extension fulfilled the 
Building Control requirements of the time. Hes been told records only go back 15 years, so 
its unlikely any information will be found. The council also notes the garage may not have 
been subject to Building Regulations if it was built prior to 1984. And it wasnt until the late 
1980s that Building Control certificates began to be routinely provided in any event.
If the garage was built after 1984, its likely Building Regulations did apply. But at that time, 
they didnt specify minimum foundation depths. So regardless of when in the 1980s the 
garage was built, Im not persuaded it was likely to have been subject to foundation depth 
requirements. And if it was, its unlikely the council will be able to confirm whether it fulfilled 
those requirements.
Although Regulations didnt specify foundation depths in the 1980s, they did set out a broad 
aim to construct the building in a way that took into account the need to provide stability from 
ground movement. And even prior to the Regulations coming into force, I think this kind of 
broad aim would have been a reasonable expectation.The claim was made in 2019 and Im not aware the garage had suffered subsidence 
problems previously. At that time the garage had stood for at least 30 years, and perhaps 
nearly 40 years, depending on when in the 1980s it was built.
The loss adjuster arranged for an arborist report. They described the age of the trees 
thought to be causing subsidence as significantly older than property. That indicates the 
trees were likely at, or reaching, their mature height around the time the garage was built. 
That means the trees have had the potential to cause a subsidence problem for around 30-
40 years prior to the claim. During that time there have been a number of subsidence 
events  where significantly more subsidence problems arise than usual, as a result of 
warmer weather drying out and shrinking the clay. The garage foundation has resisted 
damage throughout this time, suggesting it was deep enough to resist movement for a 
prolonged period. In these circumstances, Im not persuaded the garage foundation can 
reasonably be considered defective. 
Because of this, Im not satisfied Soteria has shown its fair to decline the claim. Ordinarily I 
would go on to say Soteria should accept the claim.
However, Soteria has said it doesnt think this would be fair because it considers Mr L 
negotiated a price reduction of around £30,000 when buying the property  as a result of the 
subsidence problem. And if it were to pay the claim in full, hed effectively benefit twice.
Mr L says he initially negotiated a £10,000 reduction as part and parcel of buying the 
property, noting that its common place for a degree of bartering to take place. But once hed 
received the survey, which had identified the garage cracking, he negotiated further and 
thats how the price came to be reduced by £30,000.
Soteria has shown it spoke to the previous owner, who mentioned a price reduction of 
£30,000 related to the garage damage. So, I think theres broad agreement between all 
parties this was the amount of the reduction  and it mostly related to the garage damage. 
Im prepared to accept what Mr L says about the initial reduction not being specifically 
related to the garage. Its common for the initial advertised price to be chosen as an upper 
valuation for the property, with the expectation that some modest negotiation may reduce it. 
And here £10,000, or less than 2% of the asking price, appears relatively modest.
So, I think it would be fair to consider Mr L has effectively received a £20,000 benefit toward 
the garage problem already. And I agree with Soteria that it wouldnt be reasonable for that 
benefit to be received twice. The purpose of this insurance policy is to return the policyholder 
to the position they were in prior to the loss, rather than to improve their position.
If the value of claim was clearly less than £20,000, I may not require Soteria to take any 
further action. But as the claim was declined at an early stage of the investigation, I dont 
think its likely value has been established yet. Depending on whether the trees can be 
removed or not  and consequently what type of repair will be needed  the value could be 
more or less than £20,000. And as the trees are owned by a third party, monitoring may be 
needed. So, it might take some time until the value of the claim can be accurately estimated. 
Because of this, I consider the fairest way forward is for Soteria to continue with the claim 
until the appropriate type of repair can be established. The cost of that work can then be 
estimated. And together with all the other claim costs, such as investigations, monitoring and 
tree work, as necessary, the total claim value can be accurately estimated. If its less than 
£20,000, I dont think Soteria will need to take any further action. If its more, Soteria is only 
responsible for paying the amount over £20,000.Whilst Im satisfied this is the fair way forward, I recognise its open-ended and doesnt 
provide either party with certainty about how things will be resolved. If both parties would 
prefer to reach a definitive outcome from this complaint, theyre welcome to suggest a 
settlement figure for the claim in response to this provisional decision. If an agreement can 
be reached on a figure, the complaint can be settled that way. If not, I intend my final 
decision to be as set out above.
Mr L took over the claim in April 2019 and shortly after it was declined. Ive found above it 
was declined unfairly. Had Soteria reached a fair outcome at that point, along the lines Ive 
suggested, the claim could have progressed in the meantime. It may even have been settled 
by now. Its uncertain at the moment whether the claim will ultimately lead to Mr L receiving a 
settlement  or, if there is a settlement, how much that might be. But had things progressed 
sooner, Im satisfied the distress and inconvenience to Mr L of dealing with the claim and 
complaint  and the uncertainty of when and how the problem would be resolved  would 
have been lessened, albeit not eliminated entirely.
Soteria has accepted some delays in communicating with Mr L and paid £75 compensation. 
I think an additional £225, making £300 in total, would be reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties seemed to accept my finding that the claim had been unfairly declined and 
should now be accepted. Their responses focused on how to settle the claim. And there 
were developments in the claim since my provisional decision. Ill summarise the key points:
Mr L said his neighbour had removed the trees causing the subsidence problem.
He thought it would cost more than £20,000 to rebuild the garage, based on a quote 
provided by a builder around the time he bought the house.
On the understanding that all relevant trees had been removed, Soteria was 
confident the garage will stabilise. It thought that meant it was unlikely there would be 
a need for underpinning or rebuilding the garage.
Soteria didnt think the claim value was likely to exceed £20,000.
Mr L said he didnt have any expert evidence to show the garage needed to be rebuilt 
with the trees removed.
Soteria disagreed that any further compensation was due.
Both parties raised a number of additional points, which Ill cover below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties seem to have accepted the claim was unfairly declined and should be 
accepted, Ill focus on how it should be settled  bearing in mind recent developments.Usually where a claim has been unfairly declined, to put things right Id simply require the 
insurer to accept and settle the claim. I explained in my provisional decision why I thought a 
different approach would be fair in the circumstances. Neither party disagreed with that in 
principle, although Soteria noted the policy is subject to a £1,000 excess for subsidence. So, 
the threshold value for it paying a claim is effectively £21,000. I agree with that.
Had the trees remained, I dont think an accurate estimate of the claim value would have 
been possible at this stage - given the different possibilities for what may have been required 
to settle the claim fairly. But now that the trees have been removed, and based on the 
information provided by both parties, Im satisfied I can make a finding on this point.
In most subsidence claims, once the cause of movement has been removed, the building will 
stabilise. Underpinning is usually only required where the movement cant be stopped, and 
the only way to bring stability is to enhance the foundation.
The arborist recommended two groups of trees be removed. The loss adjuster thought that 
would stabilise the garage  and underpinning wouldnt be required. 
Mr L has questioned why Soteria doesnt think the garage needs underpinning now, when it 
previously argued the foundation was defective. I concluded the foundation wasnt defective 
 and that was in part because it had stood, problem free, for at least 30 years. It had 
performed its function of supporting the structure over a significant period of time. With the 
cause of the subsidence problem removed, its logical the foundation would continue to 
support the garage without needing to be enhanced.
I havent seen any expert evidence to challenge Soterias view, and its consistent with the 
approach usually taken in subsidence claims, so Im satisfied its a reasonable position to 
take. That means if all the relevant trees have been removed, its likely the garage will 
stabilise without the need to enhance the foundation. But if some of the relevant trees 
havent been removed, further consideration, and possibly further investigation, is likely to be 
needed to judge the stability of the garage.
In most cases, once the building has been stabilised, repairs can be carried out and the 
building is returned to the way it was prior to the damage. Sometimes the extent of damage 
means that the only effective and lasting way to put the problem right is to demolish and 
rebuild the structure. Soteria considers the damage to the garage was moderate and doesnt 
think a rebuild is required.
Mr L has an estimate for rebuilding the garage. And brief comments from a builder that a 
rebuild is the best option. However, I understand those comments were given before the 
trees were removed. Mr L hasnt provided any expert opinion to show the garage would 
need to be rebuilt, despite removal of the trees. Based on the available evidence, Im 
persuaded by Soteria that a rebuild isnt required.
Soteria estimated the cost of building repairs to be around £5,000. Mr L asked whether that 
included moving an electric meter or carrying out drain repairs. Soteria said the meter would 
only need to be moved if the garage were being rebuilt, so it hadnt included this cost. And it 
estimated the cost of drain repair to be less than £1,000. It also said it had spent around 
£2,500 on investigations so far. Mr L hasnt provided any alternative estimates for repair or 
other costs that might be included within the claim costs.
Overall, Soterias current claim value estimate is less than £10,000. Even allowing for the 
possibility that some costs may increase a little, Im satisfied this means the likely claim 
value is significantly below £21,000. With the garage likely to be stable and the claim value threshold not met, Im not persuaded it would be fair to require Soteria to pay for any further 
investigation or repairs.
This finding is based on the strength of the evidence available to me  including the 
understanding that all relevant trees have been removed.
As Mr Ls subsidence claim has been accepted, its important for him to be able to show its 
been dealt with appropriately by the insurer handling it. Usually that means receiving a 
Certificate of Structural Adequacy from Soteria. Without that he may find it difficult to obtain 
insurance cover and/or sell the property. So, I think it would be fair for Soteria to provide a 
Certificate. It may need to confirm all relevant trees have been removed to do that. It may 
also need Mr L to show hes had the building repairs carried out. If Soteria requires either of 
these things before it can issue a Certificate, it should let Mr L know.
If Mr L were to provide Soteria with evidence to show why he thought the claim value was 
greater than £21,000, I would expect Soteria to consider it.
Soteria has questioned whether my intention was for Mr L to pay any costs Soteria had 
incurred, up to the £21,000 threshold. If Mr L was able to show the claim value is greater 
than £21,000, then Soterias costs incurred so far may become relevant. But as it stands, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr L to pay any of Soterias costs. It agreed for 
Mr L to continue the claim without specifying any requirement for him to pay its costs up to a 
certain limit. It didnt mention a limit at all or note hed received a reduction on the sale price 
that would be factored into any claim settlement until recently. Soteria was willing to incur 
investigation costs at the time. Whilst it may have done that because it considered the claim 
was likely to be declined, I dont think it would be fair to retrospectively change its approach 
to Mr Ls detriment.  
Mr L has asked why Soteria hadnt monitored the property. Because it declined the claim 
based on the foundation depth, it had no reason to monitor at the time. Had it accepted the 
claim, it may well have monitored to show the impact of the neighbours trees. And if the 
trees were still standing, in response to this decision, Soteria may have monitored for the 
same reason. But unless theres any reason to suspect movement may be continuing, I 
wouldnt usually expect Soteria to begin monitoring now that the problem has been removed.
Mr L also asked what would have happened if he hadnt mentioned the tree removal. Whilst I 
cant say for sure what might have been, I think its likely things would have reached the 
same position as set out above, although it may have taken longer to get there. So I dont 
think Mr L is at any disadvantage by sharing this information.
Soteria didnt agree that further compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. It said 
its decision to decline the claim was right at the time, and it had kept Mr L updated during the 
claim. Mr L didnt comment on the compensation figure.
Ive explained above why I wasnt satisfied Soteria had declined the claim fairly. Soteria 
seems to have accepted that. It suggests this service has changed its approach to this type 
of complaint, which has caused a previously correct decision to now be considered 
incorrect. I dont agree thats the case. And ultimately, Soteria has a responsibility to ensure 
it doesnt unfairly decline a claim. As it failed to meet that responsibility, I think its fair to 
consider the impact that had on Mr L  and whether compensation ought to be paid as a 
result.
My view remains that if Soteria hadnt unfairly declined the claim in April 2019, it would likely 
have progressed sooner  and the position Mr L is in now would likely have been reached 
sooner too.As that position doesnt involve Soteria carrying out repairs, or paying for them, I think the 
impact of this delay is moderate. But Im satisfied there has been an impact that warrants 
compensation. Mr L has faced the uncertainty of what would happen with the claim for a 
prolonged period of time. Thats caused distress and inconvenience of dealing with the claim 
for longer than should have been necessary. All things considered, Im satisfied a total of 
£300 is reasonable in the circumstances. If Soteria has already paid £75, it should pay an 
additional £225.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Soteria Insurance Limited to:
Accept the claim, subject to the points noted above, and provide a Certificate of 
Structural Adequacy
Pay a total of £300 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman