DRN-1946168
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2005 in connection with a credit card. Mr L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-
sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr L said he was forced to buy PPI during a telephone call with a representative from Capital 
One. He concludes the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr L disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear during the telephone conversation with Mr L that he 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he may not remember it that way. Mr L said he was forced to buy the PPI. However, 
he hasnt given us any details of the conversations he had that day or with whom, so I 
dont think there is enough evidence here to say he was forced to buy PPI.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to make a 
decision about it.   
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But having decided he chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - 
so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
from taking out the cover. 
I also noted Mr L had limited sick pay and no savings, so I think he would have found 
the PPI policy useful on a successful claim.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what he said about being forced to 
buy PPI. But as I have said above, I havent seen any evidence produced from 2005 which 
shows he was forced to buy it. And I think it was of benefit to him due to his financial 
circumstances. So his points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman