DRN-1001979
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the valuation Ageas Insurance Limited has made of his car in a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Ps car was written off in an accident. He says the amount offered for it by Ageas isnt 
enough to buy a replacement car. He wants the cars valuation to be increased.  
Ageas said in its final response that its valuation of £1,591 takes into account the cars 
mileage and optional extras. Its based on two trade guide prices of £1,395 and £1,786 and 
is fair.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said Mr Ps policy 
says the most Ageas will pay is the cars market value which is the cost of replacing it 
immediately before the loss. Having reviewed four trade guides Ageas offer of £1,591 for it 
is within the average range of these valuations. It isnt fair to require Ageas to pay the other 
costs Mr P says he incurred when buying the car as they arent covered by the policy. Ageas 
has acted fairly.
Mr P doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. in summary he says he cant 
replace the car for the amount offered. He had carried out repairs to it and it was a solid 
workhorse that keeps its value. He still wants Ageas to offer and pay him more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr Ps policy says Ageas will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his car 
immediately before the loss and that is the cost of replacing it. But that sum isnt necessarily 
the same amount that Mr P bought the car for or the cost to him of actually replacing it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various trade guide prices and we will also look at 
any other evidence produced including adverts. But I place most weight on the values in the 
main trade guides as theyre based on likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, 
which allow a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices are by their very nature averages and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless, I think its fair and reasonable to use them to 
assess Ageas offer. In this case Ageas valuation of £1,591 is the average of two of the main trade guide 
valuations it used. This also reflects the cars condition and mileage. This value is also within 
the range of valuations considered by the investigator in four guides.
Mr P says he has repaired the car but those repairs will not necessarily add to its value. 
They just preserve it by maintaining the cars condition. 
The policy also doesnt cover any additional travel or other costs Mr P mightve incurred 
when buying the car and I cant ask Ageas to reimburse them to him as hed like.
Taking everything into account, although Im aware of Mr Ps frustration, I think Ageas has 
acted fairly when making this offer. And I dont think I can reasonably require it to increase 
its valuation or pay any more as Mr P would like.
Overall I think Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys terms and 
conditions. And I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman