DRN-3131597
The complaint
Mr P and Ms K complain that Nationwide Building Society overcharged interest on their 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr P and Ms K have a mortgage with Nationwide. They had to move out of the property for a 
while due to working abroad, and Nationwide agreed to let them rent the property out in the 
meantime under whats known as a consent to let. In return for agreeing to the rental, 
Nationwide increased the interest rate on the mortgage by 1%.
A few months before Mr P and Ms K were due to move back into the property, they rang 
Nationwide to ask what they would need to do to have the consent to let removed and the 
interest rate reduced.
Nationwide explained that they would need to write in, confirming the date they moved back 
in, with evidence they were now living there. It said it would then consider removing the 
consent to let and the extra 1%. 
Mr P and Ms K moved back into the property. Around three months later, they notified 
Nationwide they had done so. They rang Nationwide and an adviser told them it would 
remove the 1%, backdated to when they moved back in. 
But this was incorrect. It was not Nationwides policy at that time to backdate removing the 
extra 1% to when Mr P and Ms K moved back in  only to when they notified Nationwide 
they had done so. 
Mr P and Ms K complained. They wanted Nationwide to backdate removing the 1% to when 
they had moved in, and refund the extra interest. Nationwide said it couldnt do that. But it 
recognised they had been misled when they called, so it offered them £75 compensation in 
recognition of that.
Our investigator thought that was fair. But Mr P and Ms K didnt agree. They said they had 
also been told in the earlier call that the 1% removal would be backdated to when they 
moved back in. And they had relied on that assurance in prioritising other things around that 
time, rather than notifying Nationwide  in the expectation that any additional interest would 
be refunded to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that the crucial point of this case is what Ms K was told on the first call to 
Nationwide, before they moved back into the property.
Ms K has given us a transcript of the call, obtained I understand as part of a disclosure 
request following their complaint. She points to a particular exchange recorded in the 
transcript which she says shows that she was assured the 1% removal would be backdated 
to when they moved back in.
Ive therefore considered this transcript. And in addition Ive listened to the recording of the 
call myself.
This call was between Ms K and Nationwide in May 2019, three months before they moved 
back in. Im satisfied the transcript is an accurate transcript  but I dont agree with Ms Ks 
interpretation of it.
Having listened to the call as well, I dont think Ms K was told that the 1% removal would be 
backdated to the date they moved in.
The relevant section of the call is:
Ms K I was hoping to get the 1% additional 
Agent Removed?
Ms K Removed from was it, tell me the date, so at that date it can be removed
Agent OK, Im going to stop you, because theres a particular process [Ms K], and I 
will run through it with you here. Um. So when were sort of getting the 
consent to that removed, that sort of thing, I would need usually something in 
writing, just yourself and [Mr Ps] signature on there
Ms K OK
Agent And then a copy of your, just some information showing you will be taking 
over, accounts and tax bill or a utility bill for the property. Just so weve got 
essentially proof that you have moved back in, that sort of thing
Ms K Do you then adjust it back to the date? Because obviously I wont be 
registered until Im in. So the only thing I have now is the notice, so we have 
managed by a third party agent
Agent Yeah
Ms K .. I do have the letter from them to the tenant
Agent OK
Ms K  and theyll be serving them notice, giving them notice, whatever the right 
term is
Agent Mmm
Ms K  so they have to be out by the second of August and were basically 
moving back in on the third, the Saturday the third or the fourth or whatever it 
is of August
Agent OK
Ms K Would that be sufficient evidence?Agent That would be a great place to start either way, yes, it would be worth 
bringing it in
Ms K says that the section of the transcript above  Do you then adjust it back to the 
date?....Yeah  shows that they were told the 1% removal would be backdated to the date 
they moved back in. She asked whether it would be adjusted back to the date they moved 
back in; the agent said yes it would be.
But having actually listened to the call, I dont think that was what was said. The question 
Do you then adjust it back to the date? was not answered by the agent. Ms K then began 
talking about the process of removing the tenant before they moved back in, and whether 
evidence of removal would be acceptable to show they were moving back in. As she was 
talking that the agent made noises of acknowledgment as his part of the conversation 
(Yeah OK .Mmm). 
I think this is clearer from the recording than the transcript, but having listened to the 
recording  which enables me to hear the context and tone as well as read the words  Im 
satisfied that Yeah was not an answer to Ms Ks earlier question, it was simply a noise of 
acknowledgement to show that the agent was listening to what Ms K was saying about the 
tenant.
Ms K asked that question, but then she moved the conversation on to discuss the process of 
removing the tenant and whether the eviction notice would be adequate evidence, and the 
agent did not answer the question.
And having listened to the whole call, Im satisfied that nothing the agent said elsewhere told 
Ms K that Nationwide would backdate the 1% removal to the date they moved back in either. 
As Ms K herself said on the call, moving back into a property and getting everything sorted 
out is a busy and stressful process. And that may well be why Ms K and Mr P didnt notify 
Nationwide they had done so until November 2019, even though they moved back in at the 
start of August. 
But whatever the reason they didnt notify Nationwide until November, Im satisfied that it 
couldnt have been in reliance on the agents assurance that the 1% removal would be 
backdated  because no such assurance was in fact given. Ms K and Mr P were wrongly 
told the 1% removal would be backdated  but not until November, after they had moved 
back in and when they did notify Nationwide. So that misinformation could not have been the 
reason they didnt notify Nationwide sooner.
As it happens, at the time of the May call, it was Nationwides policy to backdate the 1% 
removal to the date a borrower moved back in. But it changed that policy in July 2019, after 
which it would only backdate the removal to the date of notification, not the date of moving 
back in.
However, this policy is not contractual, and is not part of the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. 
Theres no general obligation on Nationwide to notify its customers when its non-contractual 
policies change. So I dont think it was unfair that it didnt write out to customers on consent 
to let when it changed the policy in July 2019.
However, if it had told Ms K and Mr P what the policy was in May, and they had taken decisions in reliance on that policy which led to them incurring extra cost, I might think it 
would be fair for Nationwide to honour what it told them.
But, as Ive explained above, Nationwide did not tell Ms K in May that the 1% removal would 
be backdated to the date they moved back in. It only told them that  wrongly, since the 
policy had by then changed  in November, after they had already delayed in notifying 
Nationwide by three months. As I say, I dont know why Ms K and Mr P didnt formally notify 
Nationwide they had moved back in until three months after they had done so. But it cant 
have been because it misled them in May  because it didnt.
Having considered all the evidence, I think whats most likely to have happened here is that:
Ms K and Mr P asked Nationwide about the process for removing the consent to let 
and taking a new rate in May (but Nationwide did not tell them that the 1% removal 
would be backdated to when they moved back in);
Ms K and Mr P moved back in at the start of August, but didnt notify Nationwide that 
theyd done so until November;
In November, Nationwide wrongly told them that the 1% removal could be backdated 
to August;
When it then told them that wasnt in fact the case, and it wouldnt be repaying the 
additional 1% interest between August and November, Ms K and Mr P complained;
As part of that complaint, they obtained the transcript of the May call. As Ive said, its 
less clear from the transcript than the recording what was actually said. And as a 
result of seeing the transcript, they came to believe  genuinely and honestly, but 
mistakenly  that theyd been told it would be backdated in May rather than 
November.
Nationwide did give Ms K and Mr P incorrect information in November 2019. But since by 
then they had already waited three months before notifying Nationwide, it wasnt the reason 
they didnt tell Nationwide sooner. And so that incorrect information didnt cause them any 
financial loss. Nationwide has already offered them £75 compensation for misleading them, 
and Im satisfied thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im satisfied Nationwide Building 
Societys offer of £75 compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
Nationwide should pay Mr P and Ms K that sum, if it has not already done so..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman