DRN-3953070
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his motor insurer Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas). Hes 
unhappy with its processes and the fact that it threatened to cancel his policy without making 
any investigations and without allowing him enough time to respond.
 
What happened
Mr L bought a new car and took out an insurance policy with Ageas in August 2022. Ageas 
wrote to Mr L to confirm the policy had been set up and asked for a copy of his no claims 
discount certificate (NCD) within 14 days. Ageas sent a reminder regarding the NCD on 
3 September and Mr L sent the certificate in on 7 September, three days before the 14-day 
deadline.
Mr L received an email on 10 September, the day of the deadline, which was also a 
Saturday, which said that the NCD he had submitted was not acceptable. The email said 
that his policy was going to be cancelled on the same day unless he provided proof that the 
same NCD was not being used on another vehicle.
 
Mr L said he saw the email by chance as he was only checking his emails that day for 
something else. When he saw it he got in touch with Ageas. He said he waited over an hour 
to get through to someone and also spoke to Ageas on its live chat function. 
Ageas said the reason why the NCD was not accepted initially was because it had a different 
vehicle registration to the one on Mr Ls new car and it wanted to make sure that this NCD 
was not being used on a different vehicle. After Mr L confirmed it wasnt, Ageas accepted the 
certificate and confirmed the policy would not be cancelled. This was confirmed on the same 
day  10 September 2022.
Mr L wasnt happy with the way that Ageas had handled the matter and complained. He said 
if he hadnt seen the email his policy would have been cancelled without further notice and 
he would have been driving uninsured without realising. He also said Ageas only allowed 
him a few hours to go back to it regarding the NCD before it planned to cancel the policy and 
that this was particularly poor as the email was sent on a Saturday when a lot of businesses 
such as brokers are closed or only work reduced hours. He said the call waiting times were 
unacceptable, that Ageas was not keeping up with its regulatory obligations which include 
treating customers fairly and was unhappy with Ageas staffs lack of knowledge of the 
regulators rules when it comes to insurers. 
Ageas didnt respond to Mr L within the eight-week time frame businesses have before a 
consumer can bring their complaint to us so Mr L complained to us. In addition to the points 
hed made above, he said that Ageas had accused him of making a misrepresentation and 
that it failed to look into his complaint under the relevant law, the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He also said that Ageas 
documentation and letters requesting that the NCD be provided didnt say that if it showed 
an old registration this would make the NCD unacceptable and potentially lead to a 
cancellation. He added that when he called Ageas when the eight-week deadline was 
approaching he was told that the complaint was being considered when in fact it hadnt yet 
been picked up. Mr L also referred to some of our Ombudsman decisions where awards for 
£250 were made in cases which involved a misrepresentation. 
Ageas responded to Mr Ls complaint not long after he brought it to us. It upheld it and 
offered him £250 in compensation. Ageas agreed that its wait times were too long, it 
accepted that it hadnt allowed Mr L enough time to respond before potentially proceeding to 
the cancellation, and that its overall service wasnt what it would have liked. It also stated 
that it hadnt said that Mr L had made a misrepresentation and said his policy was at no point 
cancelled.
 
Mr L said though Ageas response went some way to resolving the complaint there were still 
issues that he disagreed with. Specifically, he said that he still believed that CIDRA should 
have been followed and that Ageas should have halted the cancellation whilst seeking 
further clarification from him regarding his NCD. He also didnt agree with Ageas description 
of the NCD as unacceptable as it met all the requirements stated in the documentation it had 
sent to Mr L when he took the policy out. Our Investigator who looked into the complaint felt 
that Ageas £250 compensation offer was, in the circumstances, reasonable. He added that 
we wouldnt award compensation for things that could have happened but didnt, such as the 
cancellation and the chance of Mr L driving uninsured. 
Mr L asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he didnt feel the compensation awarded 
was sufficient. He said that he felt the onus was being put on him by Ageas to show that the 
NCD was acceptable; which it was from the start; instead of undertaking a proper 
investigation into the use of the NCD. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it. Nevertheless, I think the compensation Ageas 
provided is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr L has raised a number of points both with us and with Ageas. I have considered them all 
but, as this service is an informal dispute resolution service, I wont be addressing all of 
these points individually in this decision. Instead, I will be looking at the ones I consider to be 
the most important.
As I set out in the background Ageas agreed that its overall service could have been better. 
Among other things, it accepted that Mr L had to wait a long time to get through to a handler, 
that it should have allowed him more time to get back to it regarding the certificate, that its 
telephone communications with Mr L could have been better and that Mr L was erroneously 
told the complaint was being investigated when it hadnt been picked up. So, I dont think 
I need to consider those points any further.
Mr L said that Ageas complaint response had addressed some of his concerns but not all. 
He said Ageas still didnt address his concern about putting the onus on him to show that the 
NCD he provided was acceptable. And he also felt that Ageas should have considered the 
matter under CIDRA.
I have looked at the documents Mr L referred to in terms of what he was required to submit 
in relation to his NCD. The reminder he was sent on 3 September says that the NCD must 
clearly state the name and logo of his old insurer, the date it was sent, the insureds name 
and address and the NCD in years. It goes on to say that before sending the documents in 
to check the list of what can and cant be accepted (also in the letter) or (my emphasis) to look at the complete guide on Ageas website. The list of what can and cant be accepted 
does not mention the vehicle registration. So I agree with Mr L that Ageas didnt mention the 
registration in the documentation it sent him.
I have looked at Ageas complete guide which says that the certificate should include the 
vehicle registration (your registration number). Ageas also has a video on its website and in 
the video it states that the registration on the certificate should match the registration of the 
car that is being insured with Ageas. It isnt clear to me whether the current content matches 
what was on Ageas website in September 2022. But in any event I dont know how many 
consumers would watch Ageas video particularly as the reminder letter says looking at the 
complete guide is optional. And I dont think its ideal that it includes new information 
compared to what was in its letter to Mr L or even on its website. 
Having said the above, Mr L accepts that Ageas was right to enquire about the registration 
and I agree. Particularly as Mr L said that he also owned other cars. But as I said above, 
I agree that he should have been given more time to provide the information Ageas required 
 at least a few days and not a few hours on a Saturday.
Mr L says that instead of Ageas putting the onus on him to provide a certificate it deemed 
acceptable, though he feels his was in any case, and rushing to cancel the policy it should 
have carried out a proper investigation first. Mr L said he was accused by Ageas of making a 
misrepresentation. And he says it didnt follow the process set out in CIDRA before 
threatening to cancel his policy i.e. it didnt first investigate whether he had failed to take 
reasonable care to provide accurate information, whether it would have made a difference 
(whether Ageas would have offered the policy at all, charged a different premium) etc. I take 
Mr Ls point but as the policy wasnt cancelled or avoided, I wont be considering this further. 
What I will say is that wed expect a business to act fairly and reasonably before proceeding 
to cancel a policy and this may include carrying out a proper investigation. And where 
CIDRA applies wed expect a business to follow the relevant steps. 
 
As I said above, I have considered all of Mr Ls points and have listened to his calls with 
Ageas where he has raised valid concerns about its processes including the potential impact 
of its call waiting times on vulnerable consumers. And I agree with Mr L, as does Ageas, that 
he wasnt given enough time to respond regarding his certificate and that had he not spotted 
the email the likelihood is that he would have been driving uninsured. And it is possible that 
he could have been stopped by the police and ended up with a fine/points or even going to 
court. I also agree that once the policy was cancelled, getting it reinstated, removing the 
cancellation marker etc would have been difficult. Nevertheless, as our Investigator said we 
can only award compensation for what did happen. And I note that Ageas confirmed the 
policy was valid on the same day it sent the email saying it could be cancelled which was 
also the same day Mr L saw the email. So, though I accept this was a distressing period for 
Mr L and that it required effort for him to resolve, I think the £250 compensation award is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Mr L will be aware our decisions address individual complaints and not the overall 
conduct of businesses or the potential impact of their processes on other consumers.  Mr L 
has said that he will be raising his concerns with the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), and as some of his points are regulatory in nature it is best that they are 
addressed to the regulator.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited 
must pay Mr L £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him, if it 
hasnt already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman