DRN-2847947
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about Society of Lloyds valuation of his car (£5,820) after it was written off 
and that Lloyds has only offered him the value he incorrectly stated (£1,200) when he took 
out the policy. He said the value of the car was £12,000. 
All references to Lloyds include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
What happened
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said Mr R had 
made a clear mistake when valuing his car at £1,200 during the sales process instead of 
£12,000. And that this services approach, in complaints such as these, is that Mr R 
shouldnt be held to the much lower valuation he declared. He said that Lloyds had 
confirmed it wouldve charged an extra premium meaning Mr R paid 85.1% of what he 
shouldve paid. The investigator said that Mr R had made a careless mistake when providing 
the value of his car. So, Lloyds should pay him 85.1% of the claim. 
The investigator felt Lloyds had fairly valued Mr Rs car at £5,820. So, Mr R should receive 
85.1% of that amount minus his excess. 
Mr R agreed with the investigator and has confirmed he hasnt accepted Lloyds offer of 
£1,200 minus his excess. 
Lloyds disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said the key facts document and 
policy wording are clear that it will only make a payment for a car up to the value stated on 
the policy schedule. So, it didnt think it was treating Mr R unfairly or that this was an unfair 
term.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider here are whether Mr R did misrepresent the value of his 
car when taking out this policy. And if so, Lloyds needs to show it wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all or on different terms. 
Mr R giving the incorrect value of his car at the point of sale
Because the application was completed online, I can understand how Mr R made a mistake 
when he incorrectly said the value of his car was £1,200 instead of £12,000. 
I note that the policy documentation mentions that Lloyds will only pay Mr R the value of his 
car up to what is stated on the policy schedule. But when a mistake has been made by Mr R, 
and Im satisfied this was a clear mistake, I dont believe paying him the value on the 
certificate would be a fair and reasonable outcome here. I believe Lloyds should follow 
CIDRA when considering what action it should take when it was given incorrect information 
at the point of sale. 
Having considered the evidence here, Im satisfied Mr R was careless when completing his 
application. This means Lloyds is entitled to take whatever action it wouldve done if it had 
been made aware of the correct valuation. Lloyds underwriters have confirmed that it still 
wouldve offered Mr R the policy here (at a higher premium) if it had been given the correct 
value. And that Mr R paid 85.1% of the premium he shouldve paid. So, Im satisfied the 
fairest outcome here would be to pay Mr R 85.1% of the total value of his car at the time of 
the loss. 
Lloyds valuation of Mr Rs car
I note Mr R has accepted the investigators opinion in relation to the valuation of his car 
(£5,820). His policy says Lloyds will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his 
car at the time of the loss. But that sum isnt necessarily the same amount that the car was 
purchased for or advertised for. 
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use. Those guides are based on 
likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the advertised prices 
of the same make and model of cars across the country. Having done so, I believe the 
valuation offered by Lloyds sufficiently considers Mr Rs cars age, mileage and condition. I 
believe an insurers valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various 
guides we use. And I note the valuation is within the ranges from the trade guides. So, I 
believe this is a fair offer in the circumstances.
 
Putting things right
Having considered the above evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds wouldve charged a higher 
premium here. Because Mr R only paid 85.1% of the correct premium, he should receive 
85.1% of the value of his car - £4,952.82 - minus the policy excess. 
Lloyds should add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date it agreed to pay the claim 
to the date the settlement is paid.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Society of Lloyds should pay Mr R £4,952.82 (minus his policy excess) and add 8% simple 
interest to this amount from the date it agreed to pay the claim to the date the settlement is 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman