DRN-2335920
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a loan protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy Mr P took out with a personal loan in 
November 2000. Mr P applied for the PPI during a meeting.
The policy cost £31.80 per month. And it would have paid out one thirteenth of the monthly 
loan repayment amount of £306.53, for each consecutive day Mr P was unable to work. This 
would have been paid for up to 12 months if Mr P was made involuntarily redundant, or for 
up to 60 months if Mr P was too unwell to work.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to let Mr P know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent before it 
added PPI to his account. 
Mr P says he was told PPI was required in order to get the loan. Halifax says its adviser 
would have made it clear the policy was optional and that Mr P agreed to take it  its 
provided a copy of Mr Ps application form for me to consider.
Looking at the application form, there is a section about Protecting your payments. Under 
this, there are boxes with statements to say either yes or no to PPI and Mr P has signed 
within the box for the yes option. So, I think Mr P was aware he had a choice about whether 
to take PPI and that he chose to take it at the time. 
Both parties agree that Halifax recommended the policy to Mr P. That means Halifax had to 
check the policy was suitable for him, as well as give him enough information about the 
policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time, the policy appears to have 
been suitable for him. I say this because from the information I have, Mr P was eligible for 
the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the terms which might have 
made it harder for him to claim, such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or unusual 
employment circumstances.
Mr P says he was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if he was 
off sick from work. He also says he would have received redundancy pay if he lost his job.
Ive considered this carefully, but Mr Ps sick pay and redundancy pay would only have 
helped him for a limited time. The PPI would have paid out on top of Mr Ps sick pay and 
potentially for a lot longer. The loan was for a long time  seven years, so I think the policy 
could have been useful to Mr P if he fell on hard times. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr P at the time it 
was taken. And if his circumstances changed, it could have been cancelled at any time 
without penalty. 
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr P enough information about the terms and conditions 
of the policy. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable for Mr P, I dont 
think better information would have put him off of taking the policy. The cost was shown 
clearly, so, I think Mr P would have understood how much he would need to pay for it but 
chose to do so because of the benefits it provided. 
Mr P says he applied for the loan because he was already struggling to keep up with his 
expenses. That hes concerned the full amount of the premium was added to the loan 
incurring interest. And that the policy didnt cover him for the duration of the loan.
Ive considered what Mr P has said, but as Ive explained above, if Mr P did not want to pay 
for the PPI, then he could have cancelled it at any time. Interest on the PPI was not added to 
the loan as it was paid for monthly. And while Mr P may have been concerned about other 
debts  the PPI was protecting the loan used to consolidate some of those debts. The policy 
was designed to be in place for the duration of the loan and the benefits would have been 
paid for a significant period of time, subject to a valid claim. So, considering the loan was a 
big and long-term commitment, should the worst have happened, I think the policy could 
have been useful to Mr P. 
Overall, I dont think Mr P lost out because of anything Halifax did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman