DRN-3241680
The complaint
Mr C complains Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) is unfairly holding him 
liable for three debts it purchased as they were taken out fraudulently.  
To put things right, Mr C wants Cabot to return all payments made to it from his account as 
he didnt authorise them.  
What happened
Mr C says he discovered hed been the victim of impersonation fraud by his brother, Mr D, in 
August 2019. Mr C is represented by Miss K. Where appropriate, I will refer to Miss K in my 
decision. 
Upon realising Mr D was committing fraud, Miss K says shes since been looking into Mr Cs 
financial affairs and has discovered, amongst other things, regular payments to Cabot. This 
in turn has led to her discovering about the debts Cabot bought from three separate financial 
businesses. 
In response, Cabot said it was collecting agreed repayments towards debts owed and so 
declined to refund any of the payments it had collected from Mr C. Cabot said the 
repayments made towards the debts werent indicative of fraud, and Mr C should take up the 
matter of the debts being fraudulent with the original lenders. 
Mr C says Mr D was making repayments to Cabot from his account and these were not 
authorised by him. Unhappy with what Cabot said, Mr C referred his complaint to this 
service.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. In short, they found: 
- Cabot had no reason to doubt the person they were communicating with wasnt Mr C. 
Thats because the information it had matched Mr Cs. And, it was only until recently 
it received an offer of payment from somebody else, which was why Cabot didnt act 
on it
- Its for the original lenders to investigate matters related to the account being taken 
out fraudulently 
- Direct debit payments for one of the accounts were returned to Mr C following an 
indemnity sent by that original lending business. But as these debts are owed, Cabot 
has acted reasonably in declining to return payments taken under the second direct 
debit mandate
- Cabot purchased these accounts in good faith and, until such time the original lender 
confirms fraud has taken place, they are not obliged to return any payments made 
towards the balances owed
- Cabot has since decided not to pursue Mr C for any outstanding debts  which is fair 
in the circumstances. 
Mr C and Miss K disagreed with what our investigator said. In summary, they added: 
- As Mr C doesnt own a home, he wouldnt have taken out one of the loans which 
was for home improvement
- PPI redress, that was attached to this loan, wasnt paid into Mr Cs only bank account  
- Theres no evidence that one of the accounts had been reduced by all the payments 
made against it sent to Cabot, the original lender, and a third-party debt collector 
- Cabot is a member of the Credit Services Association (CSA). Cabot has breached 
one of CSAs codes of conduct as it should have referred Mr Cs fraud allegation to 
its client(s)
- The CSA code of conduct also says Cabot should have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the person being contacted is in fact the customer. To that end, Cabot hasnt 
provided any evidence to support its assertion Mr C borrowed the money.
In response, our Investigator said a statement for the respective lender shows a large 
amount being credited to the account which is likely to be the PPI redress payment. A 
statement of account for the other lender doesnt indicate multiple payments were being 
claimed at the same time. And, though theres no indication the individual lenders were 
contacted, Mr C was given their details to contact directly to raise the disputes in Cabots 
final response. 
As Mr C didnt agree, this matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
both Mr C and Miss K, so Ill explain why. 
Its not clear under what terms Cabot bought the accounts from the three respective lenders. 
But, broadly speaking, these types of agreements include an obligation to take on any 
liabilities that fall under them. 
This matter therefore isnt likely as simple as saying Mr C should approach the original 
lenders to look into the accounts being opened fraudulently. So that means I need to 
consider if there was cause enough for Cabot to be alerted to the possibility it may be 
dealing with a fraudster  and therefore, whether it should have acted differently.  
From the information Cabot has given me, I dont think it had any reason, until more recently, 
to question whether it was dealing genuinely with Mr C and not someone impersonating him. 
When it did receive information which suggested it wasnt dealing with Mr C, Cabot picked 
up on this and didnt act on it. So I think it acted reasonably and responsibly here. 
I accept it's possible Mr D may have been impersonating and using Mr Cs money to pay 
loans hed taken out fraudulently. But Cabot didnt have any evidence to have been 
concerned this was happening when it took the debt on, arranged repayments and when 
repayments were being made. 
Key to Mr Cs complaint is whether he had authorised his brother to carry out these actions. Miss K has told this service that Mr C is in a state of shock and isnt talking about whats 
happened and how that relates to his relationship with his brother, Mr D. That means Mr C 
hasnt given this service enough information about the nature of his relationship or any 
financial arrangement with Mr D. So, I simply dont have enough evidence to make a finding 
on this point. 
Cabot wasnt involved in the original setting up of any of the three accounts and wouldnt 
likely hold related application paperwork. So its likely theyre not best placed to establish if 
the original lending was taken out fraudulently. 
I do agree that it appears as though the PPI related payment might have been paid into the 
relevant account it was attached to in 2018. And that its unlikely, from the statement Ive 
seen, that Mr Cs payments to different entities didnt credit the relevant account.  
Its possible Cabot didnt meet its obligation under the CSA to inform its client about the 
fraud allegation. But Mr C was given the contact details for these lenders to contact himself. 
So I dont think any real detriment has been caused here  or that Mr C has been obstructed 
in any way. 
So, in conclusion, Cabot seemed to have acted reasonably when it took on these accounts 
as there doesnt seem to be any evidence to have alerted it to the possibility it wasnt dealing 
genuinely with Mr C. And when it was presented with information it might not be, Cabot took 
reasonable steps. 
Overall, Cabot didnt have enough evidence and therefore cause to think the payments it 
was receiving werent authorised by Mr C. 
Cabot has decided to not hold Mr C liable for any remaining balances. I dont think it needs 
to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman