DRN-4362893
The complaint
Company R (R) complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed their account without 
explanation which has caused them financial loss and inconvenience. 
To put things right, R wants Barclays to pay them £1,000 compensation and re-open its 
account. 
What happened
In May 2021, Barclays told R that it had decided to close their accounts in line with its terms 
and conditions. R were told the closures would take place on 26 July 2021  two months 
from the date of the letter. 
Unhappy R complained. As Barclays didnt uphold Rs complaint, they referred it to this 
service. Amongst other things, R says Barclays has acted this way because of a separate 
complaint related to them being scammed. Rs director has also complained about the 
impact this matter has had on his health. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Rs complaint. They explained they are only 
considering the complaint about the account being closed by Barclays - any complaint 
related to Barclays withholding funds and R being scammed in 2020 were resolved under a 
separate reference number at this service. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Rs complaint about its account be upheld. In summary 
they found Barclays acted in line with the terms of the account when closing it; that it has 
legal and regulatory obligation to comply with; and it doesnt need to give R a reason.   
Barclays agreed with what our Investigator said, but R did not. R says it no longer has an 
account which prevents them from carrying out business. Rs director also explains that this 
is having a significant impact on them personally.  
As R didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. To be clear, for the 
same reasons as above, my decision only deals with Barclays actions in relation to closing 
Rs account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know R feels strongly about this 
complaint, so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that R and Barclays have said 
before reaching my decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
Both before and after Barclays said it was going to close Rs account, it wasnt restricted, in 
other words R had access to their account during this time. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of it. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and R had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having carefully looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was 
entitled to close the account in the way that it has done. As I said above, Barclays had 
written to R to explain its actions and in doing so signposted R to the relevant part of its 
terms and conditions that it was exercising this action under.  
I note R would like an explanation for why Barclays closed the account. But I am aware of no 
obligation under which it must do this. 
R says this matter has caused them financial loss. They also say it has caused its directors 
trouble and upset. I do not underestimate that this matter wouldve caused R some difficulty. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Barclays given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when it closed Rs account.
So Im not going to ask Barclays to compensate R for any inconvenience this may have 
caused them. Given R is a separate legal entity to the directors, I can only make a finding 
on the inconvenience and not any distress its directors say they suffered. After all, a 
separate legal entity to that of an individual can not suffer emotion. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman