DRN-3615214
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Bank trading as Virgin Money unfairly closed her current
account and recorded a default on her credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Mrs S had a current account with Virgin Money and an overdraft facility. Towards the end of
2019 Mrs S agreed a monthly reduction in her overdraft limit of £50.
In March 2020 Mrs S contacted Virgin Money and explained her income had been 
impacted by the pandemic and that she wanted to cancel the planned overdraft reduction. 
At this stage, Mrs Ms overdraft limit was £1,400.
On 7 April 2020 Virgin Money wrote to Mrs S as her account balance was £7 over the 
agreed overdraft limit after it had applied interest. On 22 May 2020 Virgin Money sent Mrs 
S a letter that said her balance was £28 over the agreed limit and that she should either 
make a payment or call to discuss the account.
On 2 June 2020 Mrs S spoke with Virgin Money about her account and explained shed 
been furloughed and was unable to pay towards reducing her overdraft limit. Mrs S has told 
us that Virgin Money failed to explain it could close her account if she failed to make a 
payment. Mrs S has told us that no mention of Virgin Moneys intention to close her 
account and record a default on her credit file was made.
Virgin Money has told us that due to the length of time Mrs S account was overdrawn 
without receiving a payment it took the step of closing her account on 27 July 2020. The 
process was completed on 3 August 2020. Virgin Money went on to record a default date of 
21 September 2020 on Mrs S credit file.
Around a week after Virgin Money closed Mrs S account she contacted it and agreed a 
further repayment plan of £30 a month. Mrs S has explained Virgin Money failed to tell her 
the account had already closed when she called.
Several months later, Mrs S complained to Virgin Money after she found the default 
recorded on her credit file. Virgin Money didnt agree to remove the default or that it had 
treated her unfairly.
An investigator at this service looked into Mrs S complaint. Overall, they thought Virgin 
Money had acted fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mrs M asked to appeal and 
said Virgin Money had gone back on its offer of support during the pandemic and that it 
hadnt made it clear that it intended to close her account. As Mrs S asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S had already agreed a plan to reduce her overdraft limit when she experienced 
financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic. That meant Mrs S told Virgin Money she 
was unable to continue with planned overdraft reductions from March 2020.
On 24 April 2020 Virgin Money wrote to Mrs S as her balance was around £7 over the 
agreed overdraft limit. On 22 May 2020 Virgin money wrote to Mrs S and said her account 
was £28.89 over the agreed limit. Virgin Moneys letter said Mrs S make contact within 30 
days to discuss her account. I can see Mrs S spoke with Virgin Money within that 30 day 
period and explained she still wasnt in a position to begin overdraft reductions again as 
she was on furlough. At this point, Mrs S balance was only £28.89 above the agreed 
overdraft limit.
Mrs S has told us that when she spoke with Virgin Money in June 2020 she wasnt warned 
her account was due to close on the basis it was around £70 over the agreed overdraft 
limit. And whilst I understand Virgin Moneys letter said Mrs S needed to make a payment 
to bring the account back within the overdraft limit, I havent seen anything that shows 
warned her if failed to make the payment it would lead to the account being closed when 
she called.
I also think its fair to note that Virgin Money didnt close Mrs S account in the 30 day 
period after its 22 May 2020 letter. The account remained open far longer, until August 
2020. The statements indicate Virgin Money closed the account on 3 August 2020, but on 
11 August 2020 a call handler agreed a payment arrangement with Mrs S who has 
confirmed she wasnt told her account was closed. The payment arrangement was for Mrs 
S to pay £30 a month from 31 August 2020.
The payment arrangement was confirmed in writing the following day. Mrs S made a 
payment of £57.50 on 12 August 2020. The complaint handler at Virgin Money told our 
investigator that Mrs S failed to make the first payment due under the payment 
arrangement. But I dont agree. The payment arrangement was discussed and agreed on 
11 August 2020 and Mrs S made a payment (the first due under the plan) the following day. 
I can understand why Mrs S thought her account remained open and that a payment 
arrangement had been agreed.
Whilst I can see Virgin Money sent Mrs S a letter on 22 May 2020 letter her know it may 
close her account, I havent seen anything that shows it sent a formal demand or default 
notice which wouldve made the situation very clear. Our investigator recently asked Virgin 
Money to supply copies of all the pre default correspondence it sent Mrs S, as required 
under the regulations. Virgin Money respond May 2020 letter. But thats not a formal 
demand or default notice.
As far as I can see, Virgin Money hasnt shown it sent Mrs S the closure and pre default 
letters its required to issue under the rules. And I think thats also impacted how Mrs S 
viewed the situation. I appreciate Mrs S account hadnt received a payment for several 
months before the decision to close it was taken, but Im not persuaded Virgin Money 
acted fairly.
In my view, Virgin Money missed opportunities to clearly explain what was due and when 
Mrs S needed to make a payment by. Had it done so, I think Mrs S wouldve taken steps 
to bring her account balance within the agreed overdraft limit. Im not persuaded Virgin 
Money made the consequences of failing to take action clear enough.I recently asked Virgin Money to confirm whether it had considered offering support to Mrs 
S under the Payment Deferral Guidance that came out in April 2020. That guidance 
allowed businesses to provide breathing space for customers whose income was affected 
by the pandemic. Mrs S explained to Virgin Money that she was furloughed due to the 
pandemic. I see no reason why Virgin Money wouldnt have considered whether it could 
assist Mrs S under the Payment Deferral Guidance.
Virgin Moneys response pointed to its contact notes and call recordings. But none of the 
information contained shows Virgin Money explored whether it could offer assistance 
under the Payment Deferral Guidance. Had it done so, Mrs S couldve been given more 
time before Virgin Money took the step of closing her account and recording a default.
I also think its fair to note that Mrs S did agree another payment arrangement with Virgin 
Money in August 2020, around a week after it says the account was closed. From what Mrs 
S has told us and the available information, it doesnt appear that anyone mentioned the 
closure of Mrs S account to her on 11 August 2020 when she agreed the repayment plan. 
It was several months later that the issue arose when Mrs S found Virgin Money had 
applied a default dated 21 September 2020 on her credit file. Its not clear why the default 
date is around six weeks after the account was closed.
Mrs S says the default caused problems when trying to secure a mortgage. But I need to 
explain that even without the default, Mrs S balance had exceeded her overdraft limit for 
several months without any payments being received. In addition, Mrs S also agreed 
payment arrangements that would be noted on her credit file by Virgin Money. So there 
would always have been arrears and over limit information recorded on Mrs S credit file. 
But I agree that the circumstances under which Virgin Money applied its default were 
unclear and unfair.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mrs S complaint. Where we find a business has 
treated a customer unfairly, we try to put them back into the position theyd have been in 
had no error been made. In this case, thats difficult as Mrs S account was closed. But, as 
noted above, Mrs S was in the process of repaying the outstanding balance by way of 
overdraft reductions each month.
As a starting point, Mrs S should confirm whether shes in a position to start making 
repayments again, in line with the previous arrangement she had. If shes willing to do so, I 
think the fairest approach will be for Virgin Money to contact Mrs S and complete an income 
and expenditure assessment. If the results show Mrs S can afford repayments, Virgin Money 
should arrange to reinstate the account. Virgin Money should also take steps to amend Mrs 
S credit file and remove the default.
If Mrs S isnt in a position to being repayments in line with her previous arrangement, I 
wouldnt expect Virgin Money to reinstate the account or remove the default from her credit
file.
In my view, Virgin Money failed to clearly explain the process of closing Mrs S account and 
recording a default. And I also think Virgin Money missed opportunities to assist Mrs S 
during a particularly difficult time. I can see this has caused a reasonable level of distress 
and inconvenience for Mrs S so I also intend to award £250 to reflect that.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted to make before I 
made my final decision. Amongst other things, Virgin Money said it couldnt reinstate Mrs S 
account even if it purchased the debt back from the new owners.  I arranged for both parties to be contacted and said I intended to amend the settlement to 
reflect the Virgin Moneys response. The new settlement said Virgin Money should buy the 
account back from its new owners, contact Mrs S to arrange an affordable repayment plan, 
remove the default from her credit file and pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the provisional decision and comments Ive made above about the revised 
settlement, I still think Mrs S complaint should be upheld for the same reasons. Virgin 
Money responded to confirm it couldnt reinstate Mrs S account and I accept thats the case. 
But Im satisfied a reasonable alternative for Virgin Money to purchase the account back and 
take steps to discuss an affordable repayment plan with Mrs S. I also think the fairest 
approach is for Virgin Money to delete the default from Mrs S credit file and pay her £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to settle as follows: 
- Retrieve account from new debt owners and, within four weeks of settlement, contact 
Mrs S to discuss arrangements for an affordable repayment plan
- Amend Mrs S credit file to remove the default
- Pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman