DRN-4222750
The complaint
Mr R complains about the premium increase that First Central Insurance Management 
Limited quoted him when he wanted to change his car on his motor insurance policy and 
about the application of a cancellation fee. He wants £500 compensation for his time spent 
on this.
 
What happened
Mr R changed his car and he contacted First Central to change the car on his policy. He was 
unhappy with the increased premium he was quoted. So he cancelled his policy and First 
Central applied a cancellation fee. Mr R was unhappy with this and that he could have 
bought a new policy for his new car for less than First Centrals quote.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought First 
Central was entitled to apply a premium increase when the car changed as this was in 
keeping with its underwriting criteria and the change in risk. She thought First Central had 
acted within its terms of business in applying the cancellation fee. So she thought it hadnt 
done anything wrong. 
Mr R replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. He thought it was unfair that the mid-term change cost was nearly double the new 
business price. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R felt disappointed and frustrated with the increased premium he 
was quoted when he wanted to change his car. So Ive checked whether this was fair and 
reasonable.
We think that when the customer already has a contract of insurance based on the pricing 
model from an earlier date (start of the policy or renewal) then when there is a mid-term 
change made the only elements of the calculation which should change should be those 
affecting the changed circumstances.
Unfortunately, First Central didnt retain the mis-term quote on Mr Rs file as he cancelled his 
policy. So I cant check this. But I can see that Mr Rs new car was more recent and of 
higher value than his old car. And Ive looked at the webchat Mr R had at the time and the 
only new information provided was the cars details. 
So I cant say the mid-term adjustment quote was incorrect as it was based just on changes 
to the risks that Mr R presented to First Central. 
So Im satisfied First Central acted fairly when calculating the price for the mid-term 
adjustment, and it was fair for it to ask Mr R to pay this. We think that where the customer 
thinks they can source the same cover for less from another provider then they should have 
the option to cancel the policy. And if this means a cancellation fee is due, its fair to pay this. 
And I can see that Mr R took the option of shopping around for cover elsewhere. Ill consider 
the cancellation fee further below.  
A month after cancelling his policy, Mr R looked for a quote for his new car online and he 
found that First Central would offer cover for his new car for less than the total of his 
previous premium for six months and the quote for the mid-term adjustment. 
First Central checked this and found that Mr R had given different information about his 
details when he asked for a new quote than he had provided earlier. Premium prices can 
change daily and there was a month between the quotes so I wouldnt expect the same rates 
to be quoted. I can see that there were differences in the licence dates provided, the annual 
mileage, the purchase date and the class of usage. Looking at the quote Mr R obtained, 
there was also a significant increase in the amount of voluntary excess he said he would 
pay. 
So I cant say that Mr R is comparing like for like. I think he input different information when 
he looked for a new quote online to what he had provided previously. This would have 
changed the risks and hence the quotes he was provided were different. So I cant say that 
First Central has done anything wrong. 
Mr R was also unhappy that First Central applied a cancellation fee when he cancelled his 
policy. He said this shouldnt be applied as he had disposed of the car and no insurable 
interest remained. But I disagree with him. This is because Mr Rs policy is an annual 
contract, even though he pays for it monthly. And in taking out the contract, Mr R agreed to 
the policys terms. 
First Central is entitled to apply cancellation fees is keeping with its terms and to collect 
charges for time on cover on behalf of the insurer. I can see that the cancellation fees are 
clearly set out in Mr Rs policy documents. And I think they are in keeping with other 
cancellation charges Ive seen. So I think they are fair and reasonable and First Central is 
entitled to apply them.
Mr R was unhappy that First Central hadnt provided him with information when it responded 
to his complaint. But this is a new complaint point, and, as our Investigator explained, Mr R 
would need to raise this with First Central first to give it a chance to respond before we can 
consider it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman