DRN-3355782
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was asked to travel with a collection agent who was collecting her
car on behalf of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) to a petrol station.
Mrs D states that as this was at the beginning of the pandemic this was both inappropriate
and dangerous.
What happened
Mrs D arranged to return her car to MBFS following the termination of her finance
agreement. Collection was booked for 9 March 2020, before the country entered lockdown.
Mrs D explained that when the collection agent arrived to collect her car, it was discovered
that the car did not have any fuel. Mrs D said that the nearest filling station was about half a
mile away and there was enough fuel in the car to get there.
The collection agent stated that the fuel gauge did not move when the car was started and in
order to avoid an aborted collection, he asked Mrs D to accompany him to a fuel station.
Our investigator thought that it was inappropriate for the collection agent to have asked Mrs
D to travel with him to the fuel station as he was a stranger and there were issues relating to
social distancing. They thought that the better solution would have been for the collection
agent to have waited at the property for Mrs D to return after putting fuel in the car. They
thought that asking Mrs D to accompany him caused distress and inconvenience and MBFS
should pay £50 to reflect this.
MBFS didnt agree and replied to say in summary that Mrs D was in no way forced or
pressured to accompany the collection agent and this was a solution offered to avoid an
abortive collection. MBFS said that the collection instructions made it clear that there should
be enough fuel in the car to get to the nearest filling station. MBFS said that there were no
social distancing requirements in force at the time and Mrs D was free to have the car
collected on another occasion if she wasnt happy. MBFS asked for an ombudsman to
review the complaint.
On 31 January 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out my reasons as to why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. As neither party has responded to my provisional 
decision my reasons and conclusions remain as set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed that there was very little fuel in the car at the time of collection. The inspector
states that the fuel gauge didnt move when the car was started and they were concerned
that there wasnt enough fuel to get to a filling station. I think that the collection agent was
not unreasonable to state that he was not prepared to take the car with the level of fuel as
low as it was.
The collection agent called the office and was advised that if Mrs D was prepared to
accompany him to the fuel station the collection could go ahead. MBFS has explained that it
has contacted the collection agent who confirmed that this offer was made to Mrs D but that
there was no pressure or intimidation and she could have arranged for the car to be
collected at another time.
Although the country was approaching lockdown, there were no social distancing
requirements in place at this time and no restrictions preventing travel in this way. I note that
Mrs D states she felt the request was inappropriate and she was embarrassed by the
collections agent in front of her neighbours. Mrs D does not say she was coerced or
pressured to get in the car with the collections agent.
In the circumstances, based on the information I have seen, I cant say that the collections
agent did anything wrong. There wasnt enough fuel in the car and Mrs D had been told that
the car needed to be returned with enough fuel to get to the nearest filling station. There was
no breach of any lockdown or social distancing rules and the offer was made to Mrs D to
accompany the collections agent to the filling station in order for the collection to go ahead. If
Mrs D was in any way uncomfortable then she did not have to agree.
The collections agent paid for the fuel and confirmed that as far as he was concerned there
were no issues with what had been suggested.
Whilst it may have been an option for Mrs D to drive to the fuel station alone I cant say that
the collections agent acted unreasonably in requesting Mrs D accompany him, especially as
he was paying for the fuel.
I can understand why Mrs D may have felt that the situation was uncomfortable, especially at
the time of the approaching lockdown but I cant say that the collections agent did anything
wrong. The collections agent was attempting to assist Mrs D and she was able to refuse and
re-book the collection when the car had enough fuel. For these reasons I dont think that the 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman