DRN-1794828
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with a 
claim under their home insurance policy for a water leak.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C contacted Fairmead to register an insurance claim for a water leak in their 
kitchen. This was in addition to an ongoing claim for a water leak from their bathroom. 
Fairmead asked Mr C and Mrs C to arrange for a plumber to fix the leak and to provide a 
report. Fairmead then made arrangements to deal with the claim. However, a few weeks 
later, Mrs C reported that the leak was still ongoing. The leak was stopped but caused more 
damage to the property, which meant the kitchen had to be stripped out and it delayed the 
drying process. About seven weeks into the claim, the drying process started. However, Mr 
C contacted Fairmead to say that it was causing problems to his and Mrs Cs health and 
distressing their dog. Fairmead agreed that they could move to alternative accommodation.
The alternative accommodation was initially agreed for one week. However, near the end of 
that time, the contractor checked to see if the drying process was complete and identified 
another possible leak, the source of which then had to be located. Mr C and Mrs C remained 
in alternative accommodation, including having to move to several different places, for a 
number of months while the property was dried out and then repaired.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to Fairmead about the issues with progressing the claim and 
the resulting disruption to their lives. Fairmead agreed that they hadnt received the desired 
level of service and offered £150 compensation.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. 
He thought that Fairmead could have progressed the claim more quickly and provided more 
appropriate accommodation, but he didnt think it should cover costs such as for taking 
annual leave or for increased insurance premiums. He said that Fairmead should pay a total 
of £400 compensation, including the £150 it had already paid.
As Mr C and Mrs C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Fairmead could have dealt with this claim better. So, the first issue I 
need to consider is whether Fairmead appropriately acknowledged the level of disruption 
and inconvenience caused to Mr C and Mrs C. 
Any insurance claim of this nature is likely to cause some element of disruption to peoples 
lives. This includes potentially needing to take annual leave to deal with aspects of the claim 
and allowing time for the claim to progress. However, in this case, it clearly went beyond a 
normal level of disruption. Although Mr C and Mrs C were able to move to alternative 
accommodation, Im aware that they had to argue for this, that there was considerable 
uncertainty for them about the overall length of their time away from their home and that they 
also had to move on a few occasions. 
Looking at this in the context of the claim itself, they only had to stay in alternative 
accommodation for as long as they did because there was a delay of almost two months 
between the drying process being completed and the work then starting to restore the 
property. This meant those works didnt start until mid-January and that Mr C and Mrs C 
were therefore out of their home over the Christmas period. I can see why that would be very 
disruptive to Mr C and Mrs Cs lives and a source of stress for them.
Mr C and Mrs C are also concerned about the damage to their range cooker. Fairmead 
accepted that the range cooker should have been covered up when it was carrying out the 
works. Mr C and Mrs C arranged for someone to inspect and repair the range cooker. 
However, they are concerned about long term damage. As part of this, Mr C provided a 
video of some damage to the range cooker after the repair was carried out and said that 
food took longer to cook as heat leaked from the appliance. From what Ive seen the repair 
was carried out by a company appointed by Mr C and Mrs C. After the repairs were carried 
out, the company provided an invoice that said the cooker front door glass had been refitted 
and then said all ok now. So, I cant see that it would be fair for me to expect Fairmead to 
take further action or to pay for a new range cooker when Mr C and Mrs C have provided 
evidence that the cooker was signed off as all ok. Given Mr C and Mrs C arranged the 
company that looked at the cooker, if they have concerns about the overall assessment of 
the condition of the cooker or the repair, in my view, they need to raise it with that company.
Mr C and Mrs C also wanted compensation for the cost of food, petrol and cleaning 
equipment. However, Im aware that they were paid an allowance for food and I havent seen 
any evidence that there were excessive additional costs for petrol or cleaning equipment.
Mr C and Mrs C also asked for compensation to cover the next five years of potentially 
increased insurance premiums. However, I cant see that Mr C and Mrs C raised this as part 
of their complaint and Im therefore unable to comment on this point, as Fairmead should 
have the opportunity to do so first. Mr C and Mrs C would need to raise a complaint with 
Fairmead about this and if they are dissatisfied with the answer, they can then ask this 
service to look into their complaint.
Thinking about the above, I partially uphold this complaint on the basis that Fairmead could 
have dealt with the claim more quickly but, like our investigator, I dont think that it was 
responsible for the need to take annual leave. Ive also thought about what Fairmead should 
do as a result of this. Mr C and Mrs C have said that they want a suitably high amount of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to make senior managers at 
Fairmead take notice. But its not the role of this service to punish a business. Where 
something has gone wrong, as it has here, I need to think about what would be appropriate 
for a business to do to put that right. 
Putting things right
Fairmead has already offered £150, but I dont think that fairly reflects the level of disruption 
to Mr C and Mrs Cs lives as a result of the handling of this claim. Like our investigator, I 
think that £400, to include the £150 already offered by Fairmead, would more fairly reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused. This takes into account the delays during the claim, 
including the delay in starting the work after the drying was complete and the impact of 
having to be in alternative accommodation for a prolonged period of time.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is partially upheld. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr C and Mrs C a total of £400 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. This includes the £150 Fairmead Insurance Limited 
previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman