DRN-3086103
The complaint
Ms F complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of a claim under her home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms F has a home insurance policy, bought through an intermediary, which covers contents, 
buildings, home emergency and legal expenses.
The cover for buildings and contents is underwritten by Zurich. The home emergency and 
legal expenses cover is underwritten by another insurance company.
Ms F reported a leak of water at her property in December 2020. The plumber who attended 
couldnt identify a leak. Ms F then made a claim in January 2021. Zurich arranged for a leak 
detection company to attend.
Their engineer identified a leak from the pipework underneath Ms Fs bath. Ms F had this 
fixed by a plumber she appointed a few days later  at a cost of £140. The engineer couldnt 
identify any further issues at the property and assumed that the problem would be resolved 
once the work underneath the bath had been completed.
Later that same month, Ms F reported further issues, saying that she could hear a dripping 
sound and was concerned that there was still a leak at her house. 
Zurich appointed a different leak detection company to carry out an inspection. They 
concluded that there was some moisture in a wall at the house. They put this down to the 
previous leak and suggested a drying out programme. They said they couldnt detect any 
further leak(s) at the property.
Ms F says she could still hear the dripping sound and she wasnt happy with the conclusion 
that there were no current leaks at her house. And she made a complaint to Zurich.
In response to that complaint, Zurich arranged for the same leak detection company to 
attend again, in February 2021. And they accepted that the service provided to Ms F hadnt 
been to the standard they would expect. They said they would pay Ms F £150 compensation 
for her trouble and upset.
When the leak detection company attended for the second time, the engineer again carried 
out various tests but could identify no current leak of water anywhere in the property. 
They thought the dripping sound was in fact caused by expansion of the pipework in the 
house where it was too tight to the joists in the ceiling. And they recommended that Ms F 
should monitor the situation and ask Zurich to instruct them to attend again if there were any 
further signs of an escape of water.
Ms F remained unhappy with this and complained to Zurich again. They said their experts 
(two separate leak detection companies) had attended and, after the leaking pipes under the 
bath had been fixed, could find no existing leaks at the property. 
They said they had to rely on those expert reports. But given Ms Fs concerns, they agreed 
exceptionally to pay up to £1,000 for any further inspection Ms F wished to arrange. They 
later agreed to pay any invoice in advance so that Ms F wouldnt be out of pocket for any 
period of time.
Ms F wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong.
Ms F disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants Zurich to 
locate and fix the leak. And she wants compensation for the poor service theyve provided 
and the stress and inconvenience this has caused her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say that Ms F hasnt had the best service from Zurich at times during their 
handling of this claim. There was initially some confusion about whether the claim would be 
dealt with by them, under the buildings cover provided by Ms Fs policy, or by the other 
insurer which provides home emergency cover.
There was also some confusion about which leak detection company was carrying out 
inspections at Ms Fs property  and when. 
Zurich promised £150 in compensation, but Ms F had to chase this after shed made her 
complaint to us. She was eventually paid the £150, with an extra £50 because of the delay in 
paying her  which seems to have been entirely avoidable.
Zurichs agents (the intermediary) also eventually pointed out to Ms F that she would have to 
recover the £140 from the company which provided the home emergency cover on Ms Fs 
policy. And I understand they provided a form for her to complete and send in to make this 
claim.
Ms F has one policy  bought through the intermediary. I suspect she expected to receive a 
seamless and efficient service, whether or not different companies underwrote different parts 
of that policy. And I think Zurich (and/or their agents) have let her down in the way the claim 
was handled. It could have been much clearer, much sooner, to Ms F who was handling 
what part of the claim.
That said, I think the £200 Zurich have paid Ms F is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of those failings.
Turning to the most substantive issue, I know this will disappoint Ms F, but I dont think 
Zurichs response to her claims about on-going leaks has been in any way unfair or 
unreasonable. Ill explain why.
I have to ask Ms F to understand that Im not making a decision about whether in fact there 
is an on-going leak (or indeed a number of on-going leaks) at her house. I have to decide 
whether Zurich have dealt with Ms Fs claim  and her on-going concerns  in a fair and 
reasonable way.Zurich have three reports from two separate experts  one of whom has visited the property 
twice  saying that there is no sign of any current water leak. Those experts appear to have 
carried out very extensive tests over the course of their visits. These include moisture meter 
readings, water pressure tests, dye tests and endoscopic investigations. Their conclusions 
were that there is currently no escape of water at the house.
Its not unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to conclude, on the basis of that evidence, that 
extensive and rigorous testing has been carried out at the property and that no existing 
water leak has been found.
Furthermore, Zurich have offered to pay for a further inspection by any company Ms F wants 
to appoint. They said theyre willing to cover up to £1,000 in costs for this, which in itself is 
reasonable. But theyve also said that if Ms F finds an expert who quotes a higher price for 
their services, they will consider that. 
Ms F tells us that her home is suffering further noticeable and extensive damage due to 
water ingress. She also reports walls and surfaces being damp or even wet to the touch. 
And she says items of her furniture are now damp and damaged.
If that is the case, it would not take an expert very long to conclude that there was an on-
going problem which needed to be diagnosed and fixed. Ms F could then ensure any expert 
report was provided to Zurich, who would no doubt re-open her claim and assess the 
damage and/or the causes of the damage.
So, on balance, Im satisfied Zurich have made fair and reasonable decisions about the 
claim so far. And that theyve given Ms F a way forward  which they will pay for  if she 
remains concerned about leaks at her house. 
Zurich provided reasonable compensation to Ms F for the problems she encountered when 
making the claim. And theyve ensured that Ms F was pointed in the right direction to make a 
claim for the £140 she paid for the plumber to fix the leaks under her bath. If she has any 
further problems when she makes that claim, shed be entitled to make a further complaint at 
the appropriate time. As yet, as I understand it, she hasnt made that claim.
Ms F has been very keen throughout her complaint to us to suggest that Zurich should pay 
for acoustic testing at her house to help identify any on-going leaks and the source of those 
leaks. 
As I hope Ive made clear above, its not unreasonable for Zurich to rely on their appointed 
experts to guide them on what might need to be done to work out whether there is a leak  
and if so where. 
Those experts have carried out very extensive tests. And they were willing to draw firm 
conclusions from those tests, rather than recommend that further testing needed to be 
carried out. Its not unreasonable for Zurich to rely on their experts views and 
recommendations when determining how to respond to Ms Fs claim.
As Ive already said, its not for me to decide whether there is in fact a water leak on-going at 
Ms Fs home. She clearly remains concerned that there is - and I dont doubt that she 
genuinely believes there is a problem which still needs to be fixed. But in my view, Zurich 
have suggested a way forward which will either help ease Ms Fs concerns or confirm her 
suspicions. And so, I cant reasonably conclude that theyve acted unfairly towards Ms F in 
their handling of her claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman