DRN-3882631
The complaint and what happened
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society has only partially reimbursed him for losses 
he incurred when he fell victim to two investment scams. 
The background and what happened is well known to the parties, so I will only set out the 
key points here and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr L was contacted by a broker after seeing an advert and following a link for 
investing on social media at the end of 2019. He started investing in April 2020, 
through to August 2020, having been promised huge returns. Mr L invested over 
£18,000. He realised hed been scammed when his investment was valued at over 
£100,000 but he wasnt able to make any withdrawals. 
Again after following another link on social media, Mr L was contacted by an adviser 
with a crypto-currency investment opportunity. Between December 2020 and April 
2021, he invested over £11,000.  Mr L realised hed been scammed when the 
crypto-currency platform closed his account, and his investment had disappeared. 
Mr L complained via his representative in July 2022 about both scams. Nationwide 
upheld his complaint in part. It agreed that it ought to have intervened in the first 
scam as the payments were unusual for the account. But it said Mr L didnt do 
sufficient due diligence and so it thought he was also equally responsible for that 
loss. It therefore refunded 50% of the loss being just over £9,000. It didnt uphold Mr 
Ls complaint in relation to the second scam as it didnt think it was the point of loss. 
Our investigator was satisfied Nationwide had already fairly resolved this complaint. 
He found Mr L was equally liable for the losses incurred during the first scam and he 
didnt think any of the transactions that took place during the second scam, ought to 
have looked suspicious to Nationwide. 
Mr Ls representative has asked for a final decision citing another decision made by 
this service. It doesnt consider it fair Mr L ought to be held equally liable for his initial 
losses. And it considers the payments made as part of the second scam ought to 
have looked suspicious as they went to crypto-currency. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator for broadly 
the same reasons, as set out below:
There is no dispute Mr L has been scammed. Both brokers he was investing 
through had warnings posted by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as well as 
numerous forum comments of customers losing money in similar circumstances to 
Mr L. 
Nationwide accepts it ought to have intervened in the payments made to the first 
scam and has already reimbursed Mr L with 50% of his losses. So the only thing for 
me to consider in relation to this scam, is whether it has done enough to put that 
right. 
I accept Mr L was in contact with the scammer for several months. And at the time of 
his initial contact, there wasnt a warning about them.  However, Mr L didnt make 
any payments as a result of the scam until 10 April. The day before, the FCA posted 
a warning that the broker was acting without authorisation. Had Mr L done a simple 
internet search just using the brokers name, that warning would have been apparent. 
I accept at the time of the first payment, Mr L could have missed such a warning. But 
Mr L then substantially increased the amount he was investing a few weeks later, 
such that doing research and his own due diligence is reasonable, particularly given 
the sums he was investing. There were also negative reviews posted in March 2020, 
highlighting the investment was a scam. 
Given the promises of huge returns and the size of Mr Ls investment, I agree with 
the investigator that Nationwide wasnt acting unfairly when holding him equally liable 
for his losses. Nationwide ought to have intervened, and Mr L ought to have carried 
out due diligence, both of which could have prevented the losses. 
I turn now to the second scam. Mr Ls representative has relied on a decision issued 
some time ago in support of its argument that Nationwide ought to have intervened in 
all of the payments given they were to crypto currency, even where those payments 
were small. Our decisions dont set a precedent, but in any event the decision 
referred to doesnt support its argument that all payments to crypto currency ought to 
be treated as high-risk or suspicious. 
The highest transaction Mr L made as a result of the second scam was £2,000. 
Thats far lower than some of the transactions made during the first scam (which 
Nationwide wasnt aware of at the time). None of the transaction disputed strike me 
as suspicious such that I think Nationwide ought to have intervened. Im mindful that 
during this time, Mr L was making other crypto-currency purchases from the same 
account that havent been disputed for not dissimilar sums. Overall, the payments 
were spaced apart, similar in nature to other undisputed transactions on the account 
and werent of such a high value that I consider Nationwide ought to have been on 
alert that their customer might be coming to financial harm. I appreciate that buying 
crypto currency can sometimes be the hallmark of a scam. But it is also a legitimate 
enterprise. Its not reasonable or even possible to expect a financial institution to 
intervene in all payments to a crypto currency platform. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Nationwide ought to have intervened in any of the 
payments made as a result of the second scam. I appreciate Mr L has lost money to 
more than one cruel scam. But having considered the matter very carefully, Im 
satisfied Nationwide has already fairly compensated Mr L and so I wont be asking it 
to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman