DRN-3823419
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of a car under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
MBFS. He paid a deposit of £7,000 and the agreement was for £32,213 over 49 months; 
with 48 monthly payments of £419.06 and a final optional purchase payment of £18,000. Mr 
W ended the agreement early and returned the car in May 2022.
When the agreement was terminated the car was returned to MBFS, and it was inspected for 
any damage. MBFS said the compressor tyre kit was missing when the car was returned, 
and they invoiced Mr W £130 for this. He was also invoiced £130 for damage to the left-hand 
front door inner shut.
Mr W wasnt happy with the charges, and he said there was no compressor tyre kit supplied 
with the car. And he didnt think the damage to the door shut was sufficient to warrant any 
charge. So, he didnt think MBFS were acting fairly by charging him for this. While MBFS 
agreed with Mr W about the damage to the door shut, waiving the charges, they thought they 
were acting fairly by charging for the missing compressor tyre kit. 
Mr W wasnt happy with MBFSs response, so he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said hed see no evidence that the compressor tyre kit was with the car 
when it was supplied to Mr W. He also said that, because the car was returned with the 
same tyres as itd been supplied with, it was unlikely that Mr W had used the compressor 
tyre kit, as this would usually result in a tyre being changed. Finally, the investigator said 
that, because the car was supplied with run flat tyres, the compressor tyre kit couldnt be 
used, so he thought it was unlikely that it wouldve been supplied.
Given this, the investigator said that MBFS should remove the £130 charge.
MBFS said that the car supplied to Mr W didnt have run flat tyres, so a method for potential 
roadside puncture will always be supplied. Theyve also said that, if the compressor tyre kit 
wasnt there, the car wouldve failed its pre-delivery inspection. Theyve also provided a list 
of the things the car shouldve had as standard, which includes a Tyrefit pack, and a 
photograph of where the compressor tyre kit would usually be stored.
Mr W said that his complaint was actually about the behaviour [of MBFS] and the amount of 
time that I have wasted on phone calls, making explanations and having to drive the car 
back and forth to the dealers on many occasions for fixes that I should never have had to 
do. He also said that, as MBFS have now agreed to waive the £130 charge for the 
compressor tyre kit, I am actually looking for compensation for the way I was treated as a 
customer and also for steps to be put in place at [MBFS] so as to not act in this way to 
anyone else.
Because neither party agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
However, before I address the issue at hand, I think it would be useful if I were to explain 
what I can and cant look in to. The Financial Ombudsman Service is only able to consider 
complaints that have been raised with the financial business, and where the financial 
business has been given the opportunity to respond to those complaints.
When Mr W initially raised his complaint with us on 25 July 2022, he said that he had 
multiple issues with the car, it was returned 7 times in the first 11 months of ownership with 
major faults and repairs. He also said that, once hed agreed to return the car to MBFS, he 
was then harassed for payments almost on a 24 hour basis, phone calls, letters etc. [and 
MBFS] have not addressed my complaint regarding this.
However, Ive seen a copy of the complaint Mr W raised with MBFS on 20 May 2022. In this 
email he raised the issue of the £260 damages charges hed been asked to pay - £130 for 
the missing tyre compressor, and £130 for a tiny scratch on the passenger side inner door 
frame. And this is what MBFS responded to in their email of 26 May 2022.
Ive not seen anything to show me that Mr W raised any issues with MBFS about any 
problems hed had with the car while it was in his possession. Nor have I seen that he raised 
the amount of time hed needed to spend to try and resolve these issues. As such, I cant 
fairly say that MBFS have had the opportunity to address this. Because of this, Im unable to 
consider these points within my decision. And my decision will instead only focus on the 
complaints Mr W has raised with MBFS  the £260 damages charges.
The agreement Mr W electronically signed in May 2021 clearly set out MBFSs Vehicle 
Return Standards (VRS). And the VRS clearly said that, once the car had been returned, it 
would be inspected for damage at a Defleet Centre. The VRS also clearly said that you 
must return the vehicle together with everything originally supplied with the vehicle. As 
such, if the car was originally supplied with a compressor tyre kit, then Mr W needed to 
return this with the car. And, if he didnt, then VWFS were entitled to charge him for this.
When the car was collected from Mr W on 3 May 2022, the collection agent conducted an 
initial inspection of the car. The report produced states that the tyre sealant was not 
applicable.  Given this, Im satisfied that a compressor tyre kit wasnt present when the car 
was collected. The car was further inspected at the Defleet Centre on 6 May 2022. Following 
which Mr W was invoiced for the missing compressor tyre kit (as well as for the now waived 
damage to the door shut).However, Ive considered whether the car was originally supplied with a compressor tyre kit 
for Mr W to return. While Ive noted MBFSs comments about the delivery inspection, Id 
expect to see some form of handover document when Mr W was supplied with the car, and 
that this indicates the compressor tyre kit was present. But Ive not been supplied with this.
Ive also considered the circumstances under which Mr W mayve used the compressor tyre 
kit. As MBFS have confirmed, this would be used when the car suffered a roadside puncture. 
And, where this had happened, Id expect to see the tyre either repaired or replaced when 
the puncture was eventually fixed. However, theres no indication in the report by the Defleet 
Centre that the tyre was either replaced i.e. different make of tyre and/or different wear to the 
remaining tyres; or repaired.
Given the above, I think its more likely than not that the compressor tyre kit wasnt supplied 
with the car rather than it being used by Mr W. As such, I think its fair for MBFS to waive this 
charge.
Mr W has also referred to being harassed and bullied by MBFS for payment of the damage 
charge. And hes supplied a number of emails raising this with MBFS and explaining why he 
doesnt think its fair hes being asked to pay this before hes had a final resolution to his 
complaint.
Its clear from what Ive seen that Mr W disputed the £130 charge for the tyre compressor kit. 
As such, I accept that he would find any attempts to collect the fee unwanted and 
unacceptable. However, from what Ive seen, MBFS only chased Mr W for payment after 
theyd issued their complaint response letter, and before Mr W brought his complaint to us 
for investigation. 
As such, MBFS had issued their final resolution to Mr Ws complaint. And, while he didnt 
accept this, MBFS were entitled to ask him to pay their invoice. And doing so doesnt mean 
they were harassing or bullying him. So, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that MBFS 
acted reasonably in pursuing their fees. And I wont be asking them to compensate Mr W for 
doing so.
Putting things right
MBFS should waive the £130 charge for the missing compressor tyre kit.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. And Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman