DRN-4348351
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of his medical claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint has not been disputed. In summary Mr B claimed under 
his annual multi-trip travel insurance policy when he took ill abroad in January 2023. 
Mrs B, on Mr Bs behalf called the medical assistance line advising that Mr B needed 
emergency surgery. It said it would contact the hospital and get back to her. She called 
again when she hadnt heard  explaining that they were unable to wait for authorisation. 
She also explained they would require an extension and flights back to the UK. The medical 
assistance team didnt get back to Mrs B, so Mr B went ahead with the emergency surgery 
and they arranged their own flights home.
It then took months before settlement was finally made in July 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He recommended that Great 
Lakes cover the cost of Mrs Bs flight in full and pay Mr B £400 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the handling of his claim.
Mr B accepted this is resolution of his complaint, but Great Lakes didnt respond. As no 
agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the file and having done so I agree with the conclusion reached 
by our investigator for the following reasons:
It was reasonable of the medical assistance team to require a medical report before 
authorising surgery. I note this was requested by the team having spoken to Mrs B. 
But there was no follow up or chasers after that and Mrs B herself provided the 
medical report some days later. There is nothing to show that once in receipt of the 
medical report the medical assistance team contacted Mrs B. Accordingly, I can 
understand why Mr B felt that Great Lakes werent providing any assistance when it 
was needed. Additionally, he should have been able to count on Great Lakes to 
provide arrangements for his extended stay and flight home. But Mrs B was left to 
make these arrangements without assistance. I agree that Mr B received poor 
service.
Great Lakes did eventually settle Mr Bs claim, but didnt agree with to pay the cost of 
a business class flight for Mrs B. It felt that it wasnt medically necessary for her to 
return business class so covered the cost of an economy flight only. However, I find 
that Great Lakes had ample opportunity to arrange the flights having received the 
medical report on 15 January. The report said that Mr B was fit to fly home, 
preferably with a non-medical companion. Great Lakes agree that business class 
was justified for Mr B, who needed to have a fully reclining seat due to his recent 
abdominal surgery. In the circumstances I dont find it was unreasonable for Mrs B to 
sit with Mrs B as his companion and Im satisfied that this additional cost should be 
paid.
Great Lakes have acknowledged there were delays in settling the claim and offered 
compensation of £50. The claim was submitted in January but not paid until July. The 
regulations provide that insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly. I dont find 
the claim settlement was prompt, and I note that this caused a great deal of 
frustration for Mr B. 
Looking at Mr Bs claim journey overall, including the unresponsive medical 
assistance team and the delays in settling his claim I agree that compensation is due. 
Im satisfied that a total of £400 is fair for the distress and frustration Mr B 
experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay Mr B £400 compensation, less the £50 offered if already paid 
Cover the cost of Mrs Bs business class flight in full 
Pay 8% per year simple interest on the difference between the economy flight and 
the business flight from the date the original settlement was paid to the date the 
additional settlement is made
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman