DRN-3812135
The complaint
Mrs S complained, through a claims management company (CMC), that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC provided unsuitable advice in 1998 when it recommended her to invest in a fund that 
she feels was too risky for her. To put things right, Mrs S wants financial compensation.
The investment advice was provided by a financial business trading under a different name. 
But, to keep things simpler, as Barclays is responsible for dealing with the complaint I will 
refer to it as the financial business that provided the advice and sold the investment 
complained about. 
What happened
In June 1998, Mrs S was advised by Barclays to invest £25.00 per month into the Woolwich 
UK Stockmarket fund via a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) - which she did. Mrs S continued to 
make the regular monthly payments for more than six years until September 2004. The initial 
PEP had migrated in April 1999 to a Maxi ISA (Individual Savings Account). In total, Mrs S 
paid £1,925.00 into the PEP/ISA and she got back £1,844.43.
Mrs S was mainly unhappy that the PEP/ISA was almost entirely invested in equities and so 
wasnt suitable for her as a novice investor on a very modest income. 
In response to this complaint Barclays said, in brief summary, that £25.00 was an affordable 
investment amount for Mrs S for an extended period and the medium-risk rated fund was 
suitable for people investing for the first time, especially if they were making regular 
contributions. It said the adviser would have discussed risk and reward at the time and 
provided Mrs S with relevant product documents. Barclays said it had found no evidence that 
this risk approach was incorrect. So it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs S wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. 
After considering the complaint, based on the limited information available, the investigator 
recommended upholding the complaint. He mainly thought that although the monthly 
investment amount had been affordable for Mrs S, he couldnt safely say what level of risk 
she was prepared to take in 1998. And he didnt feel that Barclays had provided compelling 
evidence that Mrs S had a need or desire to invest in the level of risk she did. So he set out 
the steps he felt Barclays needed to take to put things right.
Whilst Mrs S appears to be happy with this proposed outcome, Barclays didnt agree with 
the investigator. 
It believed that investing £25.00 per month was, despite the fund risk rating, essentially a low 
risk investment and very affordable for Mrs S. It said investing £25.00 per month into a 
cautious/lower risk fund would have provided Mrs S with no real benefits and the 
affordability and the pound cost averaging make clear that this was not unsuitable advice as 
the risk she was taking was minimal. Barclays said Mrs S clearly had the capacity and 
tolerance to make these payments as they continued for several years and had no impact on 
her standard of living. It also questioned the investigators suggested redress approach and 
said a more suitable redress approach would have been to use the 50/50 cautious 
comparator.
The complaint came to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Barclays has consented to us looking into Mrs Ss complaint about what happened in 1998 
when it sold this investment, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator about upholding the 
complaint. But I think that using a different redress formula is a fairer way to put things right. 
Ill explain my reasons.
Barclays is unable to supply any of the point of sale paperwork from 1998. This isnt the 
reason Im upholding the complaint. I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays or Mrs S to have 
kept full financial records dating back 24 years. Where the information is incomplete (as 
some of it is here) or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must base my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely in the light of 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. I must make reasonable assumptions 
where necessary. 
Mrs S needed to be able to afford the recommended investment so Ive looked at what 
I know about her overall financial situation at the time. The CMC has told us that, in 1998, Mrs S was self-employed and she had a very modest 
income, below the tax threshold for paying income tax. It seems likely that she may have 
had some savings  certainly, by 2007 she had around £37,000.00 in savings accumulated 
over her lifetime. Barclays believed that in 1998, Mrs S still had one dependant living at 
home, she was married and her husband was the main earner and the person who paid all 
the main household expenses. From what Ive seen, she may have already owned her own 
home free from mortgage at that stage. In any event, just seven years later in 2007, Mrs S 
told Barclays this was her situation. So that doesnt suggest to me that taking out the 
investment was unaffordable for her or that it impacted adversely on her overall financial 
situation. 
Barclays has also said that a review of Mrs Ss joint current account from 1998 shows 
evidence of substantial income being received with no evidence of outgoings being higher 
than incomings. It also said Mrs S was paying the monthly investment premiums from a 
different account over the six years or so she paid into the PEP/ISA. So its evident that she 
had access to other money elsewhere as well.
Based on this limited information, I see no reason why Mrs S wouldnt have been in a strong 
enough financial situation to be able to invest £25.00 each month. This was the conclusion 
our investigator reached also and as Mrs S hasnt disagreed with what he said, I dont think 
I need to say more about this. 
Ive next thought carefully about whether the investment fitted Mrs Ss attitude to risk. Mrs S 
needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended investment 
reflected her attitude to risk. But there is limited evidence to show how Barclays established 
that Mrs S wanted to take a medium risk approach. Barclays said that the adviser would 
have discussed risk and reward and Ive no good reason to think that didnt happen. This 
doesnt however tell me what Mrs S understood about risk.
In the absence of fact find paperwork or a suitability letter, I've considered what else I have 
been told about Mrs S. The CMC said that Mrs S was a novice investor in 1998 and that the 
only other equities she had ever held at that stage were free shares she had received on the 
de-mutualisation of a financial business with whom she held an insurance policy. 
That doesnt suggest to me that she had any particular investment experience. And as far as 
I know, she hadnt speculated with any savings she had built up.  
Barclays said, in effect, it didnt matter how much, if any, investment experience Mrs S had 
by 1998 because, given the small amount invested each month and the likelihood of her 
wanting to invest over the long term, the risk was not unsuitable. Its view is that by 
investing regularly, rather than with a lump sum, the risk of the investment is 'smoothed' out 
due to 'pound-cost averaging'. As such we do not consider the fund to be unsuitable even for 
a first time investor.
I've thought carefully about what Mrs Ss likely investment objectives were in 1998. Although 
I havent seen any documentary evidence, it doesnt look like she required any income from 
her investment. I think its likely that Mrs S wanted to invest by setting aside a small sum 
each month to fund regular payments in order to grow her money over time. Given this 
objective, I think it probably was reasonable to recommend a risk-based investment to 
Mrs S. This offered Mrs S the possibility of earning a greater return than she might have 
expected to receive on funds kept in a deposit based savings account. But Im not persuaded that I have seen enough to fairly say that the fund medium-risk rating 
reasonably reflected a level of risk that matched Mrs Ss attitude to risk. Barclays cant show 
me how it assessed Mrs Ss attitude to risk or explained risk to her. I have no reason to think 
that Mrs S understood that investing in equities meant she should be prepared to expect a 
degree of volatility or that she was comfortable risking her money this way. Barclays hasnt 
shown me that it explained that lower risk investments could still have offered Mrs S 
potential for growth but at less risk to her capital. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything Barclays said in response to the 
investigators view. But I dont agree that being able to afford to pay a small regular 
investment amount means a medium risk fund was suitable for Mrs S. 
On balance, based on what I've seen and been told, I cant fairly make a finding that 
investing in a medium risk fund was a risk Mrs S was willing to take with her money. In terms 
of risk, taking into account her limited investment experience, I think a more cautious 
investment strategy wouldve been suitable for Mrs S. So I am not satisfied that the 
recommendation met Mrs Ss identified needs and investment objectives or was suitable for 
her. This means Barclays needs to take steps to put things right.
I think the appropriate benchmark here is to compare what Mrs S actually earned with what 
she would have earned had she invested the £1,925.00 she paid into the PEP/ISA in funds 
where there was a small element of investment risk.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs S agrees with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Barclays has reiterated its view that, given the small amount invested each month and the 
likelihood of Mrs S wanting to invest over the long term, the risk was not unsuitable. It said 
the fact Mrs S kept the investment for several years also illustrates this. It also said that 
being a first time investor didnt make it unreasonable to take this level of risk.
As I have heard from both parties, its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Id like to assure Barclays that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming to 
my final decision. But I havent been provided with any new information that changes what 
I think about this case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when 
thinking about my provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the 
points which have a bearing on the outcome. 
I appreciate that Barclays takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision.  Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs S 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs Ss circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Mrs S fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
PEP/ISA Surrendered Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the
date of 
settlementFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; 
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bonds
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
I have found that Mrs S most likely wanted capital growth with a small risk to her 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs S into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs S would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs S could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right for Mrs S as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman