DRN-3851743
The complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money she lost, as 
the result of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here.
Briefly, Ms C saw a phone advertised on a well-known online marketplace, priced at £650 
that she was interested in buying. She contacted the seller to make enquiries about the 
phone and to ask whether it was still available.
The seller responded, telling Ms C the phone was available and also offering Ms C the 
opportunity to buy earphones and a watch, which were each priced at £50. Ms C negotiated 
with the seller to purchase two phones for a reduced price of £1,000.
Unfortunately, Ms C was interacting with a fraudster using a fake listing and had been duped 
into paying a total of £1,000 (made up of two payments for £500, which she made on 26 
February 2022 from her Bank of Scotland account). Ms C didnt receive the phones she 
thought she was purchasing, but instead the fraudster had sent her a small amount of 
chocolate.
Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). This means Bank of Scotland has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams like 
this one except in limited circumstances. Bank of Scotland investigated Ms Cs fraud claim 
and it issued its final response on 1 November 2022 not upholding it. In summary, it 
considered the matter to be a civil dispute between Ms C and the seller, and therefore not 
covered by the CRM code. It added that it didnt think Ms C had carried out enough checks 
to satisfy herself that the seller was genuine, or that the items existed and it thought the price 
Ms C was paying was too good to be true.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Ms C brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our Investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, she thought 
Ms C had been the victim of a scam, but, when considering the CRM code, she didnt think 
Bank of Scotland was liable to refund Ms C. She said this because she thought there was 
enough going on for Ms C to have had concerns about the payments she was making.
Ms C didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the 
one Ms C has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland 
has said that the CRM code doesnt apply as this was a civil dispute between Ms C and the 
seller. But from the evidence Ive seen, I agree with our Investigator in that Im persuaded 
that the seller set out with the intent to defraud Ms C  so Im satisfied the CRM does apply 
when considering the circumstances of this case.
Theres no dispute that Ms C authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint. 
Broadly speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, she would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code. As 
Ive said above, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. A Firm may 
choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont think Ms C had a reasonable basis for believing the payments 
were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate. Ill explain why.
- When looking at similar models and makes of phone in the market at the time  I 
think the phones being sold to Ms C were under the retail value by at least 50%. As 
well as this, when Ms C asks about buying two phones, the fraudster appears to 
have quickly agreed a further reduction in the cost. Ms C has told us that looking 
back she agrees the price of the phones were too good to be true, but that it 
appeared to her the seller bought in bulk so could afford to reduce prices. But on 
balance, I do find that the price itself was too good to be true from the outset - to the 
extent that it ought to have raised significant doubt in Ms Cs mind. 
- I say that especially considering the fraudster was also offering Ms C the opportunity 
to buy earphones and a watch at prices that were a fraction of the price you would 
more typically expect them to be sold for. From seeing the exchange of messages 
Ms C had with the fraudster, I think its apparent that Ms C recognised herself that 
the price was low. I can see she questioned the fraudster about this, which was a 
sensible thing to do in the circumstances. But Im not persuaded she was given a 
plausible answer. The fraudster provided Ms C with photos of items and told her he 
had over 1,000 followers. But the photos werent clear and many didnt relate to the 
items she was buying and, on Ms C asking for details of reviews, she was told that 
there were no reviews, just screen shots of sales.
- I can see Ms C asked the fraudster if she was able to pay by PayPal. But she was 
told that the payment had to be done by bank transfer. The fraudster provided Ms C 
with bank details, but she was unsuccessful in an initial attempt to make a payment from an account she held with another banking provider. The messages between    
Ms C indicate that her other bank had blocked the payment and called her about it, 
telling her that the payment she was attempting to make was highly suspicious. I 
think this ought to have been of concern to Ms C, but I cant see shes questioned it. 
Instead the messages show that Ms C asks the fraudster for a different method of 
payment and is provided with different bank details to pay.
- Following the initial payment for £500, the fraudster provided Ms C with a screen shot 
of a post office receipt. With the fraudster telling her she could now pay the remaining 
£500 as they had sent both phones in one package. But, at this point, Ms C had only 
paid for one of the phones. I dont think a legitimate seller would have sent items out, 
without receiving a payment first. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Ms C from proceeding to make the payments. But when 
taken collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in 
the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that  
Ms C ought reasonably to have been concerned that things werent as they first seemed.
Because it considered the matter to be a civil dispute, Bank of Scotland didnt make an 
attempt to recover the money Ms C had lost. But information from the receiving bank shows 
that the money had left the receiving bank before Ms C had reported the matter to Bank of 
Scotland, so I dont think it missed an opportunity to recover the money she lost.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Ms C had a reasonable basis for believing that 
she was making payments towards genuine goods, or that the person she was dealing with 
was legitimate. So, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland should have reimbursed Ms Cs 
loss because of any obligation under the CRM Code. Given the nature and value of the 
payment Ms C made, I wouldnt have expected the bank to have identified an APP scam 
risk. So, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland ought to have taken any further action to 
prevent the scam.
Its very unfortunate Ms C has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her and I 
dont underestimate the impact this has had. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Bank of Scotland to refund her the money she sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman