DRN-2921949
The complaint
Mr P complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his
van insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ps first language is one other than English. He was working as a delivery driver. He
drove a van belonging to a hire company.
Through a broker, Mr P took out van insurance with Southern Rock from the summer of 
2018. He later changed the van insured on the policy. Mr P reported the theft of the van on 
the policy. 
In May 2019, Southern Rock said that  when hed taken out the policy  Mr P had 
deliberately given inaccurate information. So Southern Rock said it was treating the policy as 
void from the start and it wouldnt pay the claim.
The hire company asked Mr P to pay for its van.
Mr P complained to Southern Rock that it should pay the claim. Mr P brought his complaint
to us in February 2020. In early August 2020, Southern Rock wrote a final response turning
down his complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr P
gave inaccurate information when he purchased his policy, but Southern Rock hadnt done
enough to show that this made a difference to its offer of cover. So the investigator didnt
think Southern Rock had treated Mr P fairly in voiding his policy and refusing his claim. The 
investigator recommended that Southern Rock should:
1. remove the voidance from Mr Ps insurance record;
2. reconsider his theft claim in line with the policy terms;
3. cease any recovery action against him for claims costs it paid out before it voided the 
policy;
4. provide Mr P with a letter saying its removed the voidance from his insurance record, 
so he can request adjustment of any premiums hes paid since then.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Southern Rock on 29 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
The undisclosed claims, speeding offence and second occupation together wouldve 
led to different terms  specifically an increased premium. So Mr Ps breach was a 
qualifying breach under the Insurance Act.
Mr P mustve known about his own claims, motoring offences and occupations. So 
he had recklessly broken his duty to give a fair presentation of risk to the insurer.
I didnt find that Southern Rock treated Mr P unfairly by treating the policy as void 
from its start and declining to pay any claim. I wasnt minded to direct Southern Rock 
to meet the theft claim, to alter Mr Ps record or to take any other action in response 
to his complaint.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from Southern Rock, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Southern Rock Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr P disagrees with the provisional decision. His representative says, in summary, as 
follows:
Contrary to its claim that it would have never entered into a contract with him in the 
first place, Southern Rock gave him a second insurance contract in September 2018 
for a new vehicle after the theft. They have hidden this information from the 
Ombudsman.
Other customers have given negative reviews of Southern Rock and suggest that its 
business practices include entering into contracts and voiding them in case of any 
claim. He thinks that this practice is incompatible with the good faith requirement of 
the Insurance Act.
When a person does not understand something, it is natural to say no to avoid 
agreeing to something which was not understood. Any officious bystander would 
deem this an honest mistake and not a malicious act.
Southern Rock has refused to send him a copy of the voice recording despite several 
requests.
Southern Rock hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to take into account the relevant law, regulation and good practice. Above all I have to
decide whats fair and reasonable.
Ive looked specifically at Mr Ps complaint. I dont place much weight on online reviews of 
other policyholders experiences of Southern Rock. 
Mr P insured a commercial vehicle for use in his business as a driver. So the relevant law
wasnt the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act, it was the Insurance
Act 2015.
In early 2017, Mr P had been involved in two incidents. One of them wasnt his fault and he
made an injury claim. The other was recorded as a fault claim against him. Later that year,
he had one speeding offence. In summer 2018, he was a courier and he had a second
occupation as a pizza delivery driver.From the call recording, I find that the broker asked Mr P Southern Rocks standard 
questions including the following:
whether hed made any claims, or been involved in any incidents, in the previous five 
years;
whether hed had any motoring convictions or offences in the previous five years;
whether he had any other occupation besides being a self-employed courier.
Mr P answered no to all three questions. None of those answers was correct. And I
consider that Mr P had broken his duty to make a fair presentation of risk to the insurer.
The investigators opinion was that this wasnt a qualifying breach because Southern Rock
hadnt provided enough information to show that  if Mr P had given correct information - its
offer of cover wouldve been any different.
Southern Rock has given conflicting information about what it wouldve done if Mr P had
answered the questions correctly.
Its letter in early May 2019 included the following:
Under the Insurance Act 2015 insurers have remedies made available to them if a
misrepresentation was careless. If we, as the insurer, would not have entered into
the consumer insurance contract, on any terms, we may avoid the contract, refuse all
claims and issue you with a full refund of premium monies paid. If the qualifying
misrepresentation was fraudulent, deliberate or reckless, we, as the insurer, may
avoid the contract, refuse to pay claims and retain premiums.
We consider you made the misrepresentation deliberately and knew it was false.
Alternatively, and insofar as the misrepresentation was not deliberate, it was made
recklessly not caring whether it was true or otherwise.
By reason of the matters set out above your  Van Insurance policy  has been
rendered void from inception.
Ive added the underlining because I consider that it shows that Southern Rock was saying
that if there hadnt been a misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the insurance
contract on any terms  and thats why it treated it as void.
Southern Rock used very similar wording in its final response in early August 2020.
When it sent us its file in September 2020, Southern Rock included the following:
If the customer had provided the correct information at inception we would not have
offered cover as this is unacceptable to us.
But Southern Rock later told us that it had made a mistake and that it wouldve given cover
but on different terms.
Mr P or his representative have said that Southern Rock actually did give cover after the 
theft. I accept that Mr P changed the vehicle on the policy from late September 2018. But it 
wasnt until May 2019 that Southern Rock said it was treating the policy as void. So I find it 
likely that Southern Rock accepted the change of vehicle in September 2018 on the basis of 
Mr Ps incorrect answers in summer 2018.
Southern Rock has sent us some evidence of its underwriting criteria showing loading foroffences and claims. And I accept that the undisclosed claims, speeding offence and second
occupation together wouldve led to different terms  specifically an increased premium in 
summer 2018. So Im satisfied that Mr Ps breach was a qualifying breach under the 
Insurance Act.
Mr P mustve known about his own claims, motoring offences and occupations. Ive 
considered what a bystander wouldve understood from the call recording, I dont accept that 
Mr P had made an honest mistake. I find that he had recklessly broken his duty to give a fair 
presentation of risk to the insurer.
Unlike the investigator, I dont find that Southern Rock treated Mr P unfairly by treating the
policy as void from its start and declining to pay any claim. I wont direct Southern Rock to 
meet the theft claim, to alter Mr Ps record or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman