DRN-3317645
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money turned down his 
request to change his mortgage from repayment to interest only.
He said hell incur an early repayment charge (ERC) if he remortgages elsewhere as he put 
a new preferential interest rate in place.
What happened
Mr I has a mortgage with Virgin Money. He took it out in 2018, borrowing just over £410,000 
over a 24-year term on a repayment basis. He had a fixed interest rate until 1 May 2020.
In April 2020 Mr I applied through an independent mortgage broker to change his mortgage 
to interest only, but Virgin Money turned down his request. 
At the same time Mr Is broker had applied for a new fixed rate product to run on Mr Is 
mortgage until 1 July 2022. That change took effect at the end of May 2020.
Mr I complained to Virgin Money about what had happened but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Virgin Money had done anything wrong. She said Mr I didnt 
meet the criteria for a change to interest only, and the ERC forms part of the mortgage 
contract for the new interest rate product.
Mr I didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr I feels he has been treated unfairly as he is self-employed and his 2019 
income was sufficient to meet the criteria for a change to interest only, but unfortunately due 
to the first Covid lockdown his income had dropped below the level that was required as his 
hospitality business wasnt trading at that time.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Is comments, Virgin Money needed to assess the application 
based on the situation as it was at the time. And at that time Mr I didnt meet the minimum 
income requirement for a switch to interest only.
I acknowledge Mr Is point that the switch would have reduced his monthly payments, so he 
doesnt understand why insufficient income means his payments will remain higher. But the 
application Mr I made wasnt for a temporary switch to interest only for forbearance reasons. 
He requested a permanent swich, and permanent switches have to meet certain criteria. If 
Mr I had requested a temporary switch to interest only for forbearance reasons as he was 
struggling to make his full monthly repayments, then that would have been looked at as part 
of a wider package of measures that are available to customers suffering from financial 
difficulties. That is a different process and not what Mr I applied for.
The application to switch to a new rate was submitted at the same time as the request to 
move to interest only, but Mr I still had the option to not proceed with the new rate. Virgin 
Money turned down the request to move to interest only on 7 May, and on 14 May his broker 
confirmed that Mr I still wanted to proceed with the new rate, even though he couldnt switch 
to interest only. A new mortgage offer was issued on 19 May 2020, which Mr I accepted and 
the new rate was put into effect.
Mr I agreed to that change, aware he wasnt able to switch to interest only, and so there are 
no grounds for me to now order Virgin Money to waive his ERC as that forms part of the 
contract he chose to enter into when he took that new interest rate product.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman