DRN-3812859
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled his request to stop a payment.
What happened
On Saturday 6 November 2021, Mr D paid a non-refundable deposit to buy a car using his 
HSBC credit card. On 8 November he called HSBC and asked that the payment be 
cancelled. He also emailed the selling garage. He says the call handler at HSBC told him the 
payment would be stopped.
On 30 November 2021, Mr D saw the payment on his credit card statement and asked 
HSBC to raise a dispute. It sought to make a chargeback, but the garage pushed back 
against the claim and provided evidence that the payment was non-refundable. Mr Ds 
account was re-debited on 26 April 2022.
Mr D had closed his account shortly before this and only noticed the amount had been re- 
debited a month later when he received a post-closure statement. He complained to HSBC 
on 24 May 2022 that the process had taken six months, that he hadnt been told the 
chargeback had failed, and that he had been given incorrect information about timescales.
On the same day, HSBC issued its final response. It acknowledged it had given Mr D 
incorrect information about timescales and offered him £75 compensation. Mr D was 
unhappy with this and he brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one 
of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He set out the legal background and concluded Mr D was not entitled to a refund from the 
garage and HSBC had no basis on which it could have pursued the chargeback request 
further. Nor did he think that Mr D had a valid claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
However, he agreed that the claim had not been handled well and Mr D was entitled to 
compensation. He though the sum offered by HSBC was fair.
Mr D didnt agree and felt more was deserved due to the number of mistakes made by the 
bank. He specifically mentioned a call in which the call handler had read out a letter from the 
bank which contained a typo and which had not been read out verbatim in full. He felt this 
had been disingenuous.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr D feels let down by HSBC and I agree it fell short of expected standards. 
However, I do not think additional compensation is merited. I will explain why.
Firstly Mr D was not entitled to a refund of his deposit. He signed a contract which showed 
the deposit to be non-refundable and I believe from reading his exchanges with HSBC he 
recognised that.  The garage rejected his request for a refund and it resisted the chargeback 
claim so I have no reason to think that there would have been any way Mr D would have got 
his money back. In short, I cannot safely conclude that the actions of the bank had any 
impact on Mr Ds chances of getting his money back. So I do not think he lost financially as a 
result of the actions of the bank.
However, I have to consider how the bank handled the claim even though I agree that it 
reached the correct outcome. Initially Mr D called HSBC on 7 November and was told the 
transaction had gone though and he accepted it was too late to stop it. Mr D then called the 
bank on 30 November and the sum was temporarily credited to Mr Ds account. He told the 
call handler the deposit was non-refundable but gave several reasons why a claim might 
succeed. He was told the claim would be passed to the relevant team and he was also told 
he would hear back in 30 days. He was also given a case reference number.
The bank has explained that chargeback claims are actioned within 60 days and it allows 
another 90 days to achieve resolution. I consider it did meet those timescales.
The bank accepts that Mr D was misled about the time it would take and was given to 
understand it would not take so long and he then assumed the matter had been resolved. I 
can appreciate that he found this frustrating. That said he had a reference number and it was 
open to him to contact the bank to seek an update on progress.
Mr D is also concerned that in a later call the call handler didnt read out the whole of the 
claim rejection later verbatim. The line with incorrect formatting states: "We will now need to 
debit £ from your acco500.00unt." I can see why the call handler failed to read it verbatim as 
it contained an obvious typo. However, the content is fairly clear and I do not share Mr Ds 
interpretation of some deliberate attempt to deceive.
In summary the bank tried to help Mr D even though the chances of success were remote. It 
gave him an inaccurate timescale and it wrote a letter with a typo. Overall I consider the offer 
of £75 to be more than reasonable.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £75 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman