DRN-3301824
The complaint
Ms S says Freemans Plc (Freemans), trading as Freemans.com, irresponsibly lent to her. 
She  has requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her four 
accounts be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about four catalogue shopping accounts provided by Freemans to Ms S: 
Kaleidoscope, Freemans, Bon Prix and Grattan. 
As the Kaleidoscope and Freemans accounts were each opened before 6 April 2007, 
which is when we were first able to look into consumer credit complaints about catalogue 
lending, we cant consider the account openings for these accounts or any credit limit 
increases that happened before then. 
The Kaleidoscope account was opened in June 1988. In December 2013 Ms Ss credit limit 
was increased from £300 to £400. There were 10 further credit limit increases to that 
account until December 2016 when it reached £1600. 
The Freemans account was opened in January 2005. In December 2014 Ms Ss credit limit 
was increased from £1050 to £1250. This limit was increased 4 times until it reached £2050 
in October 2016. 
The Bon Prix account was opened in February 2011. In January 2016 Ms Ss credit limit 
was increased from £600 to £700. This limit was increased 6 times until it reached £1400 in 
February 2017. 
The Grattan account was opened in June 2012. In February 2015 Ms Ss credit limit was 
increased from £500 to £600. This limit was increased 4 times until it reached £1000 in 
January 2017. 
Freemans says that due to the length of time since these accounts were opened it only has 
information available from December 2013, which is when the credit limit on Ms Ss 
Kaleidoscope credit account was increased. 
Ms S says shes unhappy that Freemans continued to increase her credit limit on each 
account and didnt make proper checks to find out if she was in financial difficulties. She 
says she contacted Freemans about this in April 2017 and this led to the late payment fees 
being removed from her accounts in May 2017. Ms S repaid all outstanding amounts on 
these accounts in January 2017.
Freemans says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Ms S her accounts and 
also each time it increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ss complaint and thought that Freemans ought to 
have realised that Ms S wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on 
her accounts by the time it offered Ms S the increased credit limit in December 2013.  
Freemans has said it will accept our adjudicators view but Ms S is unhappy with the 
way that it has calculated the amount of redress due to her. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Did Freemans lend to Ms S irresponsibly?
Freemans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Freemans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
First, Ive looked at our adjudicators partial uphold finding. In making his finding he took 
into account some bank statements and business accounts provided by Ms S  who is 
self-employed. Our adjudicator noted that from December 2013, when Ms S received a 
credit limit increase for her Kaleidoscope account  the first such increase for which we 
have information  she already owed a total of £1950 on three of her four Freemans 
accounts. This figure was most likely higher given that we dont have details for her Bon Prix account at that time. He therefore thought that Freemans hadnt carried out  
proportionate affordability checks as he thought it should have found out more about 
Ms Ss income and expenditure and how much she owed to creditors elsewhere. Taking 
into account her level of income and her level of committed credit elsewhere, he 
calculated that Ms S didnt have sufficient disposable income to meet the total amounts 
she owed following the increase to the credit limit on her Kaleidoscope credit account in 
December 2013. 
Freemans said it no longer has the information it used at the opening of the accounts to 
assess the amount of credit to give Ms S. It also said it checked that the credit limits it set 
were affordable for Ms S. It was also aware of Ms S having some debt and missed 
payments but not at the same level that Ms S had suggested. 
Having looked at these points, the overall pattern of Freemans lending history and the 
information Ms S gave us, I agree with our adjudicator that the point was reached in 
December 2013 by which time Freemans should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was likely to be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful for Ms S. I therefore think 
Freemans ought to have realised that there was a significant risk that increasing Ms Ss 
credit limit in these circumstances would lead to her indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably.
It follows that I think that Ms S lost out because Freemans provided her with further credit 
from December 2013 onwards. In my view, Freemans should have realised by then that 
Ms S was getting into financial difficulty and was likely to experience problems in paying 
back even a modest amount of credit. Freemans has accepted our adjudicators finding. 
Is Freemans paying enough redress?
Ms S was initially unsure if Freemans has calculated the total redress due to her correctly. 
Having been sent a breakdown of each calculation, she now says she should be refunded a 
greater level of interest and charges than she received. 
In December 2019 Freemans wrote to Ms S say it would be refunding her all late payment 
fees, interest and deferred interest going back to January 2017. This came to a total of 
£723.20. Following on from our adjudicators finding that Freemans should compensate 
Ms S, it has now offered a further sum for each account that comes to a total of £163.83. 
Freemans says that in calculating the balance now payable it carried out a recalculation of 
interest charged on balances that exceeded the credit limit set before the December 2013 
credit limit. This was calculated forwards and included a refund of all default fees for the 
same period. Freemans then deducted the figure of £723.20 it had already paid from that 
figure, producing a balance now due of £168.83. I see that Freemans provided copies of its 
redress calculations for all four accounts which our adjudicator also sent to Ms S. 
Ms S has said that she thinks the calculation is wrong and that balance of the 
compensation due to her should be more. She says that she would like to receive a refund 
of all interest and charges from before December 2013. She says that her financial 
circumstances were often difficult prior to December 2013 and that Freemans ought to have 
realised this. She also says her accounts ought to have been frozen from that date to 
prevent her accumulating further debt. Having looked at each account, Ms S has then given 
detailed reasons as to explain why Freemans should have taken action earlier to prevent 
her from continuing to build up debt on each account and restricting her credit limits. I dont 
think its necessary to set out those reasons here, although Id like assure Ms S that Ive 
given them full consideration in reaching my decision. Whilst I appreciate that Ms S considers that the level of redress ought to have been higher 
and calculated on a different basis, I am afraid that I dont agree that Freemans needs to 
offer anything more by way of redress compensation. Without having information about 
these accounts prior to December 2013, I cant fairly say what if any additional steps 
Freemans should have taken  such as freezing the accounts  in additional to not granting 
further credit. Freemans has provided breakdowns of how each redress amount was 
calculated which appears to be reasonable. Ms S feels it is incorrect as she feels all interest 
should have been removed, but I would only have expected the calculations to remove 
interest which had been charged on balances that exceeded any credit limits that were in 
place prior to December 2013. This appears to be what Freemans has done. Given that Im 
in agreement with our adjudicators findings, I agree that Freemans should put things right 
on that basis. 
Putting things right  what Freemans needs to do
Rework Ms Ss accounts to ensure that from December 2013 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limits on that date, including any 
buy now pay later interest, to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the accounts once these adjustments 
have been made Freemans should contact Ms S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Ms S has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file 
from December 2013 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Freemans 
should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ss credit file from 
December 2013 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Freemans to take off tax from this interest. 
Freemans must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Ss complaint. Freemans & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman