DRN-2888912
The complaint
Mr C complains that Close Brothers Limited has unfairly charged him for damage to a car he 
took under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr C took a car from Close Brothers under a five-year conditional sale 
agreement. The car had been first registered in July 2010 and had an odometer reading of 
around 101,000 miles.
The conditional sale agreement included, at clause 4.1:
You must maintain the Goods in good and reasonable order and condition at your expense. 
You are responsible for all loss of or damage to, the Goods, except for any due to fair wear 
and tear.
The agreement also allowed Mr C to end the agreement early, and in or about August 2020 
he chose to do that.
Close Brothers arranged for an inspection of the car which indicated a number of areas of 
damage. One was sufficiently minor that no charge was recorded, but Close Brothers 
indicated that it would charge Mr C a total of £410.90 for damage to each of the wheels, a 
chip to the bonnet and a scratch to the front bumper. It later agreed not to charge for the 
wheels and the charge was reduced to £247.10.
Mr C did not agree to pay the charge. He said that the damage had been there when he took 
delivery of the car or that it was wear and tear. He referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. He thought however that, whilst the 
cost of repairing the chip to the cars bonnet had been properly charged to Mr C, the scratch 
to the front bumper could properly be put down to wear and tear. He recommended that 
Close Brothers reduce its charge by £97.30. Close Brothers did not agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that but, having seen photographs of the car at delivery and in particular of the damage 
Close Brothers said it had identified, was satisfied that the charges were fair. Mr C had said 
that the damage was present when he took delivery of the car and that he had evidence to 
show that. I noted that no such evidence had been provided. 
Close Brothers indicated that it would accept my provisional decision, but Mr C did not reply 
to it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement made Mr C liable for damage to the car during the time he 
had it. There was an exception for wear and tear. That means however wear and tear during 
the period that the car was in Mr Cs possession. It must therefore be assessed by 
comparing the cars condition at the point of delivery with its condition on its return. If, 
whatever the cars age, there were no scratches when the car was delivered to Mr C, Close 
Brothers was entitled to look to him to cover the cost of repairing significant scratches and 
chips when he returned the car.
As I identified in my provisional decision, Mr C said he had evidence of damage at the point 
of delivery but had not provided it. I have still not seen any evidence that the damage was 
present at delivery and, on balance, I am not persuaded that it was. 
I am not therefore minded to change my conclusions from those set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Close Brothers Limited to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman