DRN-3473794
The complaint
Business K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not set up a claim promptly 
when an automated teller machine (ATM) failed to dispense £600, which affected the 
maintenance of the business.
 
What happened
Mrs H, on behalf of Business K, attempted to withdraw £300 in cash from an ATM on            
27 January 2021. When no cash was dispensed, Mrs H then made a second attempt to 
withdraw £300 but once again, no cash dispensed. When Mrs H checked Business Ks 
statements, she saw that £600 had been debited from the account. 
Mrs H raised a query with Business Ks account provider, Barclays, on 27 January 2021, but 
the call handler didnt correctly log a claim. Mrs H called Barclays again on 29 January and 
30 January. However, a claim wasnt correctly logged for the first failed £300 withdrawal until 
Mrs H called again on 6 March 2021. The claim for the second £300 was set up on 8 March. 
Business K was refunded the first £300 on 23 March and the second £300 was refunded on 
25 March. 
Barclays issued a final response on 29 March 2021. In this, they upheld the complaint and 
acknowledged that there had been an unnecessary delay in the claims being raised. To 
resolve this, they awarded Business K £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs H, on behalf of Business K, disagreed with this and felt £600 in compensation, plus a 
waiver of the business account fee for 72 months was more appropriate. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and agreed with Barclays. They felt that the missing funds of £600 
for five weeks didnt have a large financial impact on Business K and that the £100 
compensation for the inconvenience was sufficient. 
Mrs H, on behalf of Business K, did not agree that £100 was enough. She said that she had 
been worried about using the card in ATMs after the incident and this affected the business. 
In addition, she said that the business had lost some opportunities due to a lack of cash on 
certain days which she says had an effect on the business. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell Barclays to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Barclays has accepted that it caused just over a five-week delay in raising the claims for the 
missing funds. It highlighted that:
It didnt own the ATM so therefore didnt cause the initial error of the funds not 
dispensing and had to raise a claim with the provider of the machine. 
During the time that the funds were missing, there was no evidence of a strain on 
Business Ks cashflow and that it had savings available which it did not use. 
Business K continued to make ATM withdrawals during this time.
Mrs H says that when she first reported the incident, Barclays told her she shouldnt use the 
debit card until the issue was resolved and that she was unable to withdraw cash in branch 
due to a lack of manned counters and concerns over COVID. As a result, Business K had to 
let go of a few business opportunities due to a lack of cash available on specific dates. 
It isnt disputed that Barclays made an error when logging the claim and that it caused just 
over a five-week delay to Business K receiving a refund of the missing funds. So, I dont 
need to consider what went wrong here. I need to determine if the £100 compensation 
awarded to Business K is sufficient when considering the impact that the delay of the refund 
has caused.
Firstly, its important to note that as Business K is a limited company, and therefore not a 
natural person, it cannot be distressed or upset. Because of this, it can only be awarded 
compensation for the inconvenience it has been caused, as well as any damage to 
reputation. 
I can see that Mrs H did have to call on four separate days and sent an e-mail to Barclays to 
chase the refund. So I think there was inconvenience caused to     Business K as Mrs H 
could have spent this time on the business. On balance, I think the £100 offered to 
compensate Business K for this inconvenience is in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances.
Mrs H says that because of the incident, she was told not to use the debit card which led to 
some lost business opportunities as she didnt have enough cash on hand for purchases. 
Ive looked at the statements for Business K and can see that there were regular ATM 
withdrawals in the months prior to the incident. But I can also see there were ATM 
withdrawals from just nine days after the incident, with a total of nine withdrawals from ATMs 
between the incident and the first £300 being refunded. While there has been a slight 
decrease in the frequency of cash withdrawals, I can see that Business K was still able to 
withdraw cash regularly so I cant see this has had a significant impact on the business. 
Looking at the statements, I can also see that the account continued to maintain a credit 
balance and Business K didnt have to access the funds in the separate savings account at 
any time. Overall, I think its more likely the missing £600 didnt have a significant impact on 
the business being able to function.
I appreciate that compensation can be subjective and what may be enough for one person 
or business might not feel right for another. Having carefully considered everything available 
to me, taking into account the inconvenience caused by Mrs H having to call Barclays to 
chase the refunds, I think the £100 already offered and paid to Business K is reasonable in 
the circumstances and I dont think Barclays should award anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think the offer of £100 that has already been paid is 
reasonable. So, I dont uphold Business Ks complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman