DRN-3129311
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance claim. My references to URV include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought a Unite Silver annual travel policy on 13 December 2019 to provide 
cover from 16 December 2019 to 15 December 2020. They booked a trip abroad as part of a 
group in September 2019 and were due to travel from 24 to 31 August 2020. 
However, on 25 July 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
travel to their intended destination due to Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs T cancelled the trip and claimed on the policy for their lost flight costs of about 
400 Euros.
URV declined the claim on the basis that the policy didnt cover cancellation as a result of 
FCDO advice.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us and want URV to pay the claim. They said URV unfairly 
declined their claim for cancellation caused by the change in FCDO advice because the 
policy was invalid if theyd travelled against that FCDO advice. They queried what they had 
paid for if they had no cover under the policy.
Our investigator said URV had fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs T disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said they hadnt gone on 
holiday for the year they had the policy and URV had taken the policy premium but not paid 
the claim or even offered them a partial refund of the premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr and Mrs Ts comments about not being able to use their policy for the rest of the 
period of insurance. That doesnt automatically mean URV needs to refund their premiums 
and if they want a full or pro-rata premium refund they should contact URV. If the parties 
cant agree on that matter ultimately Mr and Mrs T can make a separate complaint to us 
about that.
This decision is only about whether URV fairly and reasonably declined Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which the insurer has provided as 
relating to Mr and Mrs Ts policy says on page 1 under the heading Are there any 
restrictions on cover?
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy says on page 13 under the heading Your 
pre-travel policy - If you are not able to go on your trip:
We will pay:
Up to £4,000 for your proportion of prepaid:
 transport charges;
 loss of accommodation;
 foreign car hire; and
 pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip
that you have paid or have agreed to pay, that you cannot recover from any other 
source, following your necessary cancellation after you purchased this insurance 
resulting in financial loss
If you are unable to travel because:
 you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
 a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, 
injured or dies before the trip starts
 the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
 you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law
 you or a travel companion being made redundant
 of the requirements of HM forces.
Mr and Mrs T cancelled their trip because the FCDO had advised against all but essential 
travel to their intended destination. This isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for 
which cancellation cover is provided.There is no section of the policy which provides cover for the circumstances Mr and Mrs T 
found themselves in. This means I dont think the claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of 
the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law. 
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt 
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Mr and Mrs T and URV says 
at page 12 under the heading  Conditions and exclusions applying to your policies;
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following 
circumstances:
You travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
The policy also contains a specific exclusion under the cancellation section of cover. 
Page 13 of the terms and conditions of the policy says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office     
applicable at the time of your departure.
So the cancellation section of the policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims made 
because of FCDO advice.
Although Mr and Mrs T may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if 
they travelled and also having no cover if they cancelled, I think these exclusions are clearly 
and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of their policy. 
It was up to Mr and Mrs T to ensure they had the level of cover they required to meet their 
needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, I think its 
likely they couldve found another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation 
they found themselves in. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which 
I could fairly ask URV to accept their claim
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman