DRN-3051033
The complaint
Mr M complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC granted him a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr M took out a loan with AvantCredit for £3,400. An administration fee of 
£178.95 was added to the amount borrowed. The loan was to be paid off over 24 months in 
instalments of £209.54 per month. The APR was 49.8%.
Mr M later complained to AvantCredit that it shouldnt have granted him the loan. 
AvantCredit said it had carried out a creditworthiness and affordability assessment and 
concluded the amount it agreed to lend was affordable and sustainable based on Mr Ms 
financial circumstances. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns, but she didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
checks AvantCredit had carried out were proportionate and didnt suggest Mr M wouldnt 
have been able to sustainably make the loan repayments. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think AvantCredits affordability checks 
were sufficient. He referred to his bank statements which showed hed taken out a number of 
payday loans shortly before AvantCredit granted the loan. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2021 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required AvantCredit to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for AvantCredit to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Mr M was taking out a loan for £3,400 and was committing to repay it over a period of two 
years. AvantCredit was required to establish whether Mr M could do so sustainably. In other 
words, that he would be able to do so without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further.
Before agreeing the loan, AvantCredit asked Mr M for information about his income and 
expenditure and it also reviewed his credit file. According to Mr Ms application he had a net 
income of £3,352, although hes told us this was in fact his salary before tax and other 
deductions. AvantCredit says it verified the income Mr M had supplied by checking credit 
reference agency data which confirmed the accuracy of Mr Ms quoted income. But the 
credit reference agency AvantCredit shows Mr Ms income as being £2,530. This is the 
income it should have used in its affordability assessment. 
The application data shows Mr Ms monthly expenses to be £650 for rent, £100 for utilities, 
£50 for auto and £100 for other. The credit file showed Mr M was committed to repaying a 
total of £486 a month for two loans, which had a total balance of £6,806. His revolving credit 
balance was £4,749.  
On the face of it, Mr M appears to have had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments of £209.54 a month. But I think the information AvantCredit gathered from       
Mr Ms credit file ought reasonably to have given it cause for concern. This showed he had 
opened five new accounts and had three balance increases in the last three months. His 
total debt balance had increased by £2,391 in this time period. This information suggests   
Mr M may have been becoming increasingly reliant on credit. So, I think it should have 
prompted AvantCredit to look more closely at Mr Ms financial situation to satisfy itself that 
he would have been able to repay the loan sustainably.
As I dont think AvantCredits checks were sufficient, Ive gone on to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have shown. Mr M has provided us with 
copies of his bank statements from July and August 2018. In addition to the two loan 
repayments showing on the credit file, Julys statement alone shows several payday loan 
transactions going out of the account which amount to over £2,800. The expenses listed on 
Mr Ms loan application appear low and/or incomplete too.
I can see that Mr M stated the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. But it isnt clear 
from the application which debts he was looking to refinance. According to the credit file 
AvantCredit used to assess the application, Mr Ms total debt balance was £11,555. And as 
Ive said, this didnt show all of Mr Ms debt. So, the AvantCredit loan would have had a 
limited impact on Mr Ms existing debt if used for consolidation. There was also a significant 
risk of the funds not being used to consolidate existing debt.
 
While different checks show different things, I think if AvantCredit had carried out what Id 
consider to be proportionate checks, it would have discovered more about Mr Ms financial 
situation. And it ought reasonably to have realised that he was having problems managing 
his finances and would most likely have difficulty making his loan repayments without 
borrowing elsewhere. It follows that AvantCredit should reasonably have realised that Mr M 
was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his loan and concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to him. 
I set out what I intended to direct AvantCredit to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr M said he was happy with the complaint resolution Id set out in my provisional decision. AvantCredit said it accepted what Id said in my provisional decision and it would do what I 
said it should do to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to change them.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr M 
made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman