DRN-2922254
The complaint
Miss M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt amend her mortgage 
as she requested.  
What happened
Miss M has a mortgage with RBS that was first taken out in 2007. The mortgage has been 
on an interest only basis for a number of years and Miss M has taken various different 
interest rate deals over the years.
In April 2018, as Miss Ms interest rate deal was ending, she contacted RBS to review her 
arrangements. As well as arranging a new fixed interest rate, Miss M wanted to change the 
basis of her mortgage. She asked for part of the outstanding balance (approximately 
£106,600) to remain on an interest only basis. And she asked for the rest of the outstanding 
amount (£47,000), and the associated product fee, to be converted to a repayment basis  
with both the capital and interest being repaid. This is often referred to as a part and part 
mortgage  where different parts of the balance are on a different repayment basis.
RBS provided Miss M a mortgage illustration in line with what she requested in April 2018. 
This showed the change to the structure as requested, that both parts of the mortgage would 
be on a fixed interest rate of 1.9% until the end of July 2020 and that Miss Ms total monthly 
repayments would be £644.37. The illustration confirmed there would be a product fee of 
£995, and this would be added to the outstanding balance on the repayment part of the 
mortgage.  
Miss M was happy with the terms and wanted to proceed so contacted RBS again. She 
spoke to a different adviser to the one she had discussed matters with before. RBS has 
acknowledged that this adviser told Miss M to complete her application online.
Miss M followed these instructions and applied online. A mortgage offer was provided when 
she did so, and she agreed to this. The new interest rate came into effect from May 2018.
In October 2019 Miss M contacted RBS to discuss the overpayment allowance on her 
mortgage. During that discussion, she was made aware that her entire balance had 
remained on an interest only basis.
Miss M complained to RBS. It acknowledged that she had asked for the mortgage to switch 
to a part and part basis and had been directed to do this online. But it said that this change 
couldnt actually be made by completing the application online  only the new interest rate 
requested could be put in place this way. And this is what had happened  the mortgage had 
remained fully interest only but with the agreed fixed rate in place. So, RBS accepted that an 
error had been made. Miss M asked that she be put in the position she wouldve been in if 
that error hadnt happened. She also mentioned she was unhappy at having paid a £995 
product fee, when the change she requested was not put in place.
RBS said that the product fee related to the interest rate deal that had been agreed. So as 
the revised interest rate had been put in place, it didnt think it should have to refund the 
product fee.
RBS calculated that, if the mortgage had switched to a part and part basis the repayments 
Miss M wouldve made wouldve reduced the balance on the repayment part of the mortgage 
by £8,632.62. But it only agreed to pay 50% of this (£4,316.31) to the mortgage. It said this 
was because the mortgage offer that Miss M agreed to online was clear that it was made on 
the basis the whole mortgage was on an interest only basis and that the contractual 
repayments would only be in the region of £244. It said it felt Miss M shouldve realised, 
when she received this offer that there was an error. And the repayments requested since 
the change had been lower (approximately £244) than Miss M was expecting (in the region 
of £644). And it said it had sent two annual mortgage statements, confirming that the entire 
mortgage was on an interest only basis. So, it felt Miss M shouldve highlighted the issue 
sooner, so the impact couldve been lessened, and as a result RBS thought it fair that it only 
refunds half of the underpayments.
RBS also calculated that Miss M had overpaid interest, as a result of the error, which it said 
it would refund. It calculated this amount to be £158.46. But it incorrectly told her she had in 
fact overpaid £1,202.01 in interest. RBS agreed to pay £1,202.01 as it said it would, even 
though this figure was incorrect. And RBS credited £5,518.32 to Miss Ms mortgage in 
December 2019 (the £1,202.01 in interest and £4,316.31 representing 50% of the underpaid 
amount). 
RBS also offered Miss M £200 for the upset caused by what had gone wrong. Lastly it said, 
if Miss M still wanted to change the basis of her mortgage, shed need to speak to an adviser 
to discuss this. 
Miss M then asked our service to consider her complaint. She explained shed contacted 
RBS as soon as she became aware there was an issue. So, she didnt feel it was fair that 
RBS had not agreed to cover the loss shed incurred in full. And she also felt it should now 
amend her mortgage, to a part and part basis, as she had asked it to, without the need for a 
further application.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He felt that RBS offer in terms of adjusting the 
mortgage was fair, as he felt Miss M ought to have been reasonably aware sooner that there 
was a problem. He also felt it was reasonable that, in order for RBS to change the basis of 
the mortgage now, a new application would be required. This was because the original 
request Miss M made was cancelled without being considered, so he thought it would be 
right for RBS to consider any such request now against its lending criteria. He acknowledged 
though that this would cause Miss M further inconvenience. So, he felt RBS should increase 
the amount it had offered to pay for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss M from 
£200 to £500.
RBS agreed to the investigators opinion. But Miss M did not. She didnt feel RBS offer was 
fair as it didnt put her in the position she would otherwise have been in. And she also didnt 
think it was fair RBS wouldnt now implement the requested change. She said she hadnt 
cancelled the application, so didnt think it was her fault this hadnt previously been 
assessed.
As Miss M did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Miss Ms intention, when contacting RBS in April 2018 was to change the 
basis of her mortgage to part and part, as well as obtaining a new fixed interest rate. And Im 
also satisfied that the reason this didnt happen was due to an error by RBS. 
Ive seen evidence that its adviser, the second one Miss M was in contact with, directed her 
to complete her application online. This was despite it apparently not being possible to put in 
place all of the changes Miss M wanted this way. Something I think RBS mortgage adviser 
shouldve known. It seems, from the copy emails Ive seen, that the adviser mayve 
suggested this to make sure the new interest rate deal was in place as quickly as possible. 
With the change to repayment type to be completed later. But even if this were the case, the 
adviser appears to have discontinued the application to change the repayment type. So 
regardless of the reason for this suggestion being made, Im satisfied there has been an 
error.
And RBS accepts an error was made, and this caused the mortgage to remain on an interest 
only basis  meaning the balance was not reducing as it should. So, what is left for me to 
decide is whether the offer RBS has made to resolve this is fair.
RBS has said it doesnt think it should have to cover all of the amount the mortgage has 
been underpaid by between the error happening and this issue being discovered in October 
2019. This is because it thinks Miss M shouldve realised sooner that there was a problem 
and so couldve done more, meaning the underpayment, essentially the loss, wouldve been 
lessened. Miss M doesnt believe this is fair, as it was an error by RBS that caused the 
problem.
As Ive said, Im satisfied RBS was at fault initially and its error led to the requested 
amendment not being made. But I also think it wouldnt necessarily be fair for RBS to cover 
all of the losses stemming from this error if some of those losses couldve been avoided by 
Miss M.
RBS has said, amongst other things, Miss M shouldve been aware from the mortgage 
agreement she agreed to online, that the mortgage was all on an interest only basis. Ive 
seen the agreement completed and signed online by Miss M. And this does confirm that all 
of the borrowing was to be on an interest only basis.
Ive also though seen an email from the second adviser that was involved in the application 
to Miss M. This email said she should select the new interest rate online, so as not to pay 
more interest than she needed to  by her mortgage moving onto the standard variable rate 
while everything was being assessed. And this implied that, after this was done, the change 
to the repayment basis of the mortgage would still be carried out separately. So, I think it is 
reasonable, based on the email from RBS, that Miss M assumed, even if the agreement 
displayed online was for the lending to be on entirely interest only, that the change she had 
requested was still going to be carried out. And so, I dont think she ought necessarily have 
realised there was an issue, just based on the agreement displayed online when she agreed 
the new interest rate or on any confirmations of this sent shortly afterwards. 
RBS has said that Miss M also shouldve realised that the whole mortgage had remained on 
an interest only basis form the annual statements it sent in June 2018 and June 2019. Miss M has said that, on receipt of the June 2018 statement, she queried this in branch. But 
she says she was told, based on what she said to the branch staff, that the change to 
repayment type might not have been sorted prior to the annual statement being produced. I 
think this again is a reasonable explanation. And I dont have any reason to doubt that this 
conversation took place.
In respect of the 2019 annual statement, Miss M has explained she was out of the country at 
the time the statement was issued. And then on her return she had to deal with two 
bereavements in quick succession. And she says this is why she didnt raise the matter until 
October 2019. Again, I think this explanation is reasonable. And so, Im not sure that, for the 
reasons RBS has said, Miss M shouldve realised there was an issue sooner than she first 
raised matters.
But I do think other information available to her shouldve made her aware the change she 
had requested hadnt been put in place.
The illustration provided to Miss M when she asked to switch to a part and part basis was 
clear that her monthly repayments would be approximately £644. But the letter she received 
after applying online confirmed these would be around £244. Even if, as Miss M has said, 
she was expecting the change to be completed shortly after she applied for the rate change 
online, as her monthly repayments, being taken from her bank account, didnt increase to 
£644, I do think she shouldve been aware sooner that there was an issue.
Miss M has said she was making voluntary overpayments to the mortgage, before applying 
for the change to part and part, to bring down the amount of capital she owed. And these 
continued after the application was made but not completed. So, she wouldnt necessarily 
have realised that the repayments hadnt increased. But Ive seen a transaction history. And 
while I can see she was overpaying (by approximately £194 per month) the payments she 
was making monthly after her application, around £438, were still significantly below what 
the mortgage illustration said shed be expected to pay, if the change to a part and part basis 
went ahead.
Miss M has also told us that, if the change had happened, shed have stopped making the 
overpayments, and just paid the contractual amount of around £644. But Miss M didnt ever 
change her repayment amount, to remove the overpayment element  something she 
indicated she intended, and I think reasonably wouldve expected to have to do if the 
mortgage had switched to a part and part basis.
Taking everything into account, I think Miss M shouldve been aware before October 2019 
that her mortgage hadnt been converted to a part and part repayment basis. And so, I think 
some of the losses, through the balance not being reduced as it shouldve, couldve been 
avoided. And with that in mind, I think RBS position, that it shouldnt be responsible for all of 
the amount underpaid, and that this should instead be shared is fair. And I think the payment 
RBS has already made to the account to rectify this (£5,518.32) is also fair.
Id also note, even if I thought Miss M shouldnt have known about the issues sooner, Im not 
sure I wouldve asked RBS to do any more here.RBS has provided calculations to explain the figures it has used and the compensation paid. 
If the mortgage had been converted as Miss M requested, it wouldve been in two parts. 
RBS has shown that the balance that wouldve been on a repayment basis, wouldve 
reduced by £8,632.62. And it has paid 50% of that. But that doesnt account for how the 
situation wouldve been different for the second part of the mortgage  the interest only part. 
This interest only part of the mortgage wouldve had a lower starting balance. And RBS has 
shown that, compared to the position that part of the account would have been in, Miss M 
has in fact overpaid that equivalent part of the mortgage by just over £1,370, as a result of 
the mortgage continuing as it has. 
So, the net position is that the mortgage has in fact been under paid by less than the figure 
RBS used when calculating the refund it was going to provide. This is supported by the 
figures mentioned in its final response  where it doesnt use the figure of £8,632.62. So, it 
appears RBS has in fact potentially paid Miss M more than 50% of the losses stemming from 
it error.
In addition, Miss M has confirmed that, had the change been made as she requested, she 
wouldve stopped making overpayments to the mortgage, and just paid the contractual 
monthly amount. But because this didnt happen, the overpayments continued. Between 
May 2018 and October 2019, Miss M overpaid the mortgage by just under £3,225. 
Overall, the account has been underpaid, as a consequence of RBS error. But Miss M has 
also benefitted partially by having overpaid the account more than she wouldve done, if not 
for that error. And I think this benefit would need to be taken into account and offset against 
any loss when looking at the effect the error has had. 
Lastly, as I mentioned previously, RBS incorrectly told Miss M shed overpaid £1,202.01 in 
interest. But the actual figure was £158.46, which RBS has provided evidence to support. 
Despite this, RBS refunded the higher amount. Which I dont think it needed to. And Id also 
have taken this amount RBS paid that it didnt have to into account when considering 
redress.
And what I think all of this means is that the payment RBS made to Miss M to adjust her 
mortgage actually fully addresses the net impact of its error. So, in any event, I wouldnt be 
asking RBS to do any more than it has in terms of adjusting the mortgage.
Miss M is also unhappy that RBS will not now change the mortgage to a part and part basis 
as she requested in 2018 and requires a new application  as it indicated in its response to 
her initial complaint. 
Im satisfied that Miss M did not withdraw her application and this appears to have been a 
further error on RBS part. But I dont think that means RBS now needs to just implement a 
significant change to the mortgage without assessing it against its lending criteria. I know 
that it will be inconvenient for Miss M to have to apply again, and I can see that she already 
spent a lot of time applying in 2018. But I cant reasonably require RBS to implement the 
requested change without first assessing it, which Im satisfied it didnt do in 2018, or without 
taking into account any change in circumstances since that time.
As Ive said, I think this will result in additional inconvenience for Miss M. And this is on top 
of the distress already caused by the errors made. Our investigator felt RBS should increase 
the compensation it had offered as a result of this from £200 to £500. I know Miss M thinks 
this still doesnt go far enough. But taking everything into account, I think that 
recommendation, which RBS has agreed to, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.Finally, I know Miss M has said she was unhappy at being charged a product fee in 2018 
even though the repayment basis of the mortgage was not amended. RBS has said the fee 
related to the interest rate applied for, rather than the other change to the mortgage. And Ive 
seen information which indicates what RBS has said is correct and that the interest rate deal 
was not available without paying this fee. And Miss Ms mortgage did switch onto this 
interest rate deal. So, the fee seems to have been charged correctly. And as a result, I dont 
think RBS needs to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. 
To put things right The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay her £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its error. This includes the £200 it offered to pay previously. In the 
event that £200 was previously paid, it can deduct that amount from what now needs to be 
paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman