DRN-1969161
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her employers income 
protection scheme. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mrs F became absent work due to anxiety and depression. After the 
deferred period had passed Mrs F claimed on her employers group income protection 
scheme. 
Unum declined the claim on the basis that Mrs F didnt meet the definition of incapacity. 
Mrs F appealed but Unum maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mrs F 
made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that Unum had fairly declined the claim, on the basis of the available medical evidence. 
Mrs F didnt agree as she said that the medical evidence supported her claim. She asked an 
ombudsman to review her complaint and so I need to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy provides cover if Mrs F meets the policy definition of incapacity. The policy says: 
For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred 
period, if
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to 
perform the material or substantial duties of his insured occupation, and
 
(b) The member is not following any occupation, except as provided under 
paragraph 5.3,
Then the member is incapacitated.  
Im really sorry to hear that Mrs F has experienced anxiety and depression. I can see from 
her correspondence to our service that the complaints process in itself has added a great 
deal of stress to an already difficult situation. I also appreciate that Mrs F has experienced 
financial difficulty as a result of her claim being declined. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to reject Mrs Fs claim for the reasons 
Ill go on to explain: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that the medical evidence 
didnt demonstrate that Mrs F met the definition of incapacity. The GP notes arent 
detailed about the consultations Mrs F had with her doctor. The majority took place 
over the phone and they dont give a detailed insight into the symptoms Mrs F was 
experiencing and how they would impact on her ability to do her job 
Mrs F had difficulties with her mental health for a long time before she was signed off 
work. And the available medical evidence doesnt suggest that there was a significant 
change in her mental health at the time she became absent from work 
Whilst Mrs F has provided a letter referring to traits of Emotionally Unstable 
Personality Disorder there hasnt been a firm diagnosis. And, in any event, it still 
doesnt demonstrate that Mrs F wasnt able to do the material and substantial duties 
of her role or give a detailed understanding of her mental health during the relevant 
time
I appreciate that Mrs F is frustrated that occupational health reports from 2019 arent 
given as much weight as the other contemporary evidence. But the reports are based 
on Mrs Fs reporting of her condition and symptoms. And they also dont cover the 
relevant period, which is the time when she was first signed off work. The reason 
thats important is because the policy terms set out that Mrs F must meet the 
definition of incapacity for the deferred period. So, in the circumstances of this case, 
I dont think the later reports give any significant further insight into Mrs Fs condition 
during the relevant time. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman