DRN-3004709
The complaint
Mr O complains that a vehicle he acquired under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance was misrepresented 
as a converted camper van.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr O saw an advert for a converted camper van. He attended the 
supplying dealer and acquired the vehicle via a five-year conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers.
Mr O says that the vehicle was actually for use by his brother and it is registered in 
his brothers name. Mr O was, however, covered by insurance to use the vehicle.
Mr O says that the supplying dealer informed him that the body classification of the 
vehicle hadnt been changed with the DVLA following its conversion. He says he was 
told that he would be provided with the necessary documentation to request the DVLA 
reclassify the vehicle to a camper van.
Mr O sent the reclassification request to the DVLA but in September 2020 the DVLA 
responded that the application was declined. The DVLA said that the body type 
classification held by it must describe what a vehicle looked like in traffic. It said that the 
interior had been converted but it didnt have the permanent external features to be 
described as a motor caravan. The DVLA said the classification of the vehicle could be 
altered to a van with side windows.
Mr O complained to the dealer that he had been mis-sold the vehicle as he couldnt now 
change its classification with the DVLA. The supplying dealer disagreed and said it had 
never given any guarantee that the DVLA would alter the vehicles classification. It said 
the paperwork had been left in the vehicle by the company that had converted the 
vehicle and was a guide as to how the classification might be changed. The dealer said 
there had been no conversation between itself and Mr O about this.  
Mr O complained to Close Brothers enclosing a copy of the advert which he said proved 
the vehicle had been misrepresented. He said the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose as he 
was unable to register it as a camper van with the DVLA and that this had implications 
for insuring the vehicle. Mr O said the vehicle wasnt fully converted as had been 
advertised.
Close Brothers didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said didnt agree the vehicle had been 
mis- sold and said although the DVLA hadnt agreed to reclassify it as a camper van due 
to its general appearance it had said the vehicle could still be used as a camper van. 
Close Brothers said insurance issues werent the responsibility of the supplying dealer.
Mr O was unhappy at Close Brothers response and complained to this service. He said 
the vehicle had been described as a fully converted camper van but the DVLA had 
declined to reclassify it as the modifications had been inadequate. He said this was 
evidence the vehicle had been mis-sold to him.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. He said the 
vehicle had been misrepresented as it hadnt been fully converted as advertised. And so, 
a false statement had been made to Mr O which had induced him to enter into the 
finance agreement. He said it would be fair for the agreement to be cancelled and 
vehicle returned, and Mr Os deposit reimbursed.
As Mr O had had some use of the vehicle, our investigator said that it was fair for 
Close Brothers to retain three months of payments for the additional 3,000 miles 
driven by him. Finally, our investigator said Mr O should receive £50 compensation for 
the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the vehicle having been mis-
sold to him.
Close Brothers disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said Mr O had been sold a 
van that had been converted to a camper van and was fully able to use it for that purpose. 
Close Brothers said it had been advised by the supplying dealer that the only 
modifications required for the reclassification by the DVLA were some stickers and an 
awning rail which the supplying dealer had agreed to do, but that Mr O hadnt made 
contact over the offer. It said this offer was still open to Mr O.
Mr O said that he wanted to reject the van as it had been mis-sold and it was the 
supplying dealer that hadnt kept in touch with him.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
Mr O said that the vehicle had been mis-sold to him as it was described as a fully 
converted camper van. And Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says a 
lender like Close Brothers may be liable for what's said in pre-contract discussions by the 
supplying dealer.
Misrepresentation occurs when an untrue statement of fact is made by one party to 
another which induces that other party to enter into a contract and thereby causing that 
party a loss. Further, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods that are supplied must 
be as described.
Id seen copies of the advert for the vehicle, the conditional sale agreement, the letter 
from the DVLA and of the paperwork sent to the DVLA seeking reclassification of the 
vehicle by Mr O. 
I was aware that converting different models of vans into motor caravans or camper vans 
had gained in popularity and that there were a number of companies undertaking this 
conversion professionally. And that prior to October 2019 the DVLA had only set out 
internal criteria required for a converted vehicle to be reclassified as a motor caravan or 
camper van but after that date it had published an update clarifying the new external 
requirements. This was issued because of a large number of conversions were being 
rejected for reclassification by the DVLA.
The DVLA stated that the purpose of the external criteria was to ensure the police could 
recognise the vehicle as a motor caravan on the road. Here, the vehicle appeared to have 
failed to meet the DVLAs criteria as it didnt have motor caravan-style graphics and an 
awning rail attached to either side of the vehicle. However, I also understood there were 
no specifics as to what exactly was required as to the graphics and/or the appearance of 
the awning bars so it was possible that, even with these modifications, the DVLA would still decline to re-register the vehicle as a motor caravan. Further, Id seen, via a number of 
different websites and forums, that there is an increasing number of converted vehicles 
that the DVLA has declined to re-register despite appearing to fit the published criteria for 
the exterior of the van.
The advert for the vehicle acquired by Mr O stated that it was a fully converted 
camper and that it was a vehicle that had been converted with all the essential 
camper gear. There was no mention in the advert about the vehicles classification with 
the DVLA nor any guarantee given that it would be re-registered by the DVLA.
The letter from DVLA did not raise any concerns that the interior of the vehicle would fail 
the criteria for camper van/motor caravan. Id also seen that despite Mr Os original 
concerns about insurance cover, this had been arranged for a camper van rather than a 
commercial van, so I thought it was reasonable to say it had been recognised as a 
converted camper van. I also understood that there were a number of insurers who were 
happy to insure converted camper vehicles that arent registered as such by the DVLA.
Taking all the evidence Id seen, I thought the vehicle was fit for purpose and met its 
description of a converted camper van. I hadnt seen any evidence that anything was 
missing from the conversion that would have prevented Mr O from using it as a camper 
van even though the DVLA hadnt agreed to the reclassification. I also thought it was fair 
to note that Mr O had viewed the vehicle before acquiring it and so, I thought it was 
reasonable to say, he must have been satisfied with the conversion and happy that he 
could use the vehicle as a camper van.
As I hadnt seen any evidence that Mr O hadnt been able to use it as a camper van and 
had been able to obtain appropriate insurance, I was unclear why Mr O considered the 
vehicle not to be fit for purpose. The only items that appeared to be missing from the 
vehicle for it to be re-registered as a camper van were on the exterior. These appeared to 
be minor adjustments and easily remedied although I accepted it appeared that, even 
with these additions, there was no guarantee that the DVLA would reclassify the vehicle. 
However, I didnt think these missing items were sufficient to say the vehicle wasnt a 
converted camper van.
I thought the issue for me to decide was whether Mr O had been induced to enter into 
the financial agreement by an untrue statement, namely that the DVLA would reclassify 
the vehicle as a camper van/motor caravan.
Id seen that the parties disagreed about what was said at the time the agreement was 
taken out. I didnt know what was said between Mr O and the supplying dealer as they 
both said something different. Id seen that Mr O had been given the necessary 
paperwork to send to the DVLA which had been provided by the company that had 
converted the vehicle. I accepted this wasnt documentation put together by the supplying 
dealer.
Where evidence was missing or contradictory then I have to decide what I think is the 
most likely thing to have happened. And I thought it was unlikely that Mr O would have 
been given a guarantee that the DVLA would reclassify the vehicle. If it was spoken 
about then I thought it was more likely than not that it was put as an option that Mr O 
could undertake if he chose to do so. I didnt think Mr O only took the vehicle and 
entered into the agreement on the understanding that the DVLA would re-register it as a 
camper van or motor caravan.
Id seen that even without the reclassification, Mr O had been able to obtain the correct 
insurance for it. He had also raised an issue with the speed limit for the vehicle because it had remained registered as a commercial van. My understanding was that for this 
particular vehicle the speed limit was 50mph on single carriageways, 60mph on dual 
carriageways and 70mph on the motorway so there was a limited difference on the 
maximum speed, however, I didnt think I could reasonably say the speed restrictions that 
applied would spoil the experience of driving the vehicle.
Id seen that since Mr O had had the vehicle, it had been driven for over an additional 
6,000 miles. Taking into account the restriction on movement due to Covid-19, I thought it 
was fair to say Mr O had been able to make use of it. And I thought it was more likely than 
not that this vehicle had been used for its intended purpose as a camper van/ motor 
caravan.
Mr O had also raised that he had approached two garages regarding part exchanging the 
vehicle and this had been rejected due to its current classification at the DVLA. However, 
I understood that there were a large number of converted camper vans that were not 
reclassified by the DVLA and there appeared to be a market for them. The dealer that 
had supplied this vehicle to Mr O had offered to take it back as a part exchange but had 
later withdrawn that offer when contacted by Close Brothers. This withdrawal had been 
because it was, by then, the Autumn and it said sales of these vehicles were seasonal. I 
thought this response was, at that time, reasonable as sales of camper vans/ motor 
caravans would be affected as to the time of the year. However, I didnt accept from the 
evidence that I had seen that Mr O had an unsaleable vehicle.
Mr O said that there were some issues with vehicle such as the interior lights leaking and 
not being provided with a gas safety certificate. These were matters that hadnt been in 
his original complaint to Close Brothers. Id seen that there were some mechanical faults 
with the vehicle which had been repaired at no cost to Mr O not long after hed acquired 
it. However, I didnt intend to look at any issues regarding the quality of the vehicle as it 
would be fair to allow Close Brothers to investigate any complaints of this nature first and 
provide a response.
So, for the reasons given above I was not intending to uphold Mr Os complaint. I didnt 
think the vehicle was misrepresented to Mr O and that a false statement about it 
induced him to take out the credit agreement.
Mr O disagrees with my provisional decision and has provided statements from two 
people who attended the dealer with him when he first viewed the van and when there 
was agreement to buy then van. 
Mr O says that as the DVLA doesnt recognise the vehicle as a camper van he has 
been mis-sold the vehicle. He says he has had to spend money having a pop-up roof 
and the graphics added to the van and asks as an alternative outcome that Close 
Brothers cover the full cost of the alterations, he has had undertaken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the statements from Mr Os brother and a friend that have been provided by Mr 
O and considered the representations he has made about my provisional decision. But, 
although I know this will be of disappointment to him, I havent changed my view.
Ive seen from the statements provided that the initial conversations were between the 
salesperson and Mr Os brother as it was originally Mr Os brother who was going to buy the van. It was later agreed that Mr O would take out the finance agreement. However, as Mr 
Os brother isnt a party to this financial agreement any representations made to him about 
the van arent something I cannot take into account when looking at whether the van was 
misrepresented to Mr O himself. This is because the contract is between Close Brothers and 
Mr O. I think its reasonable for me to still say that I dont know what was said to Mr O 
himself and the dealer says they didnt provide any guarantees that the DVLA would re-
register the van as a camper van.
The statements provided by Mr O also appear to contradict when there was a discussion 
about the van being re-registered as a camper van with the DVLA. Mr Os brother says this 
took place when he collected the van as at that time he had noticed the van wasnt 
registered as a camper van and enquired with the salesperson about that. He says he was 
told to send off the documents provided to the DVLA and apply for re-registration.
The second statement provided by Mr O is from a friend who attended the dealership with 
Mr Os brother to look at the van for the first time. They say Mr Os brother was shown 
information about the van and the salesperson told Mr Os brother that all he needed to do to 
have the van reclassified as a camper was send the necessary paperwork to the DVLA.
As the statements both set out what was said to Mr Os brother, but are unclear as to when 
things were said, Im still satisfied that Mr O himself wasnt given any guarantee that the van 
would be re-registered by the DVLA as a camper van. So, I dont think the van was 
misrepresented to Mr O that the DVLA would re-register it once it had received the 
paperwork.
Mr O says the van isnt a fully converted campervan and that he has had to make 
modifications to it in order that it could be re-sold as one. This has included the addition of a 
pop-up roof as well as adding the graphics. However, Ive seen from the DVLA website that 
the external features it expects to see when considering an application to reclassify is a 
high-top roof (this does not include a pop-top elevating roof). So, I cant say that the roof 
modification carried out by Mr O was necessary for the van to be recognised as a fully 
converted camper van. As set out above, the two features that were missing were the 
graphics, which have now been added, and an awning bar attached to either side of the 
vehicle. I dont think it can be reasonably said that the van requires significant modifications 
to its exterior to fit the requirements of the DVLA but, as stated above, I am also aware that 
even if the van does match what is listed on the DVLA website there remains no guarantee it 
will be reclassified.
As set out above, I think this vehicle met the description of a fully converted camper van 
since there were no issues regarding the interior of the van meeting the necessary 
requirements of the DVLA. Mr O had seen the van and I think its reasonable to assume that 
he was content with what he saw as he agreed to purchase it. I think from the evidence that I 
have seen, that its also reasonable to conclude the van was fully capable of being used as a 
camper van and has been used as one by Mr O since he acquired it.
One of the statements provided by Mr O raises the difficulty Mr O has had selling the 
vehicle. I dont know whether the writer of that statement has personal knowledge of this or 
is reporting what Mr O has said. But as set out above, converted vans arent unusual and it 
appears that there is a market for them. They can be properly insured, and the only 
remaining issue is the speed limit, but again as explained, I dont accept this would impact 
on the use of the van as a camper van. Camper van sales are influenced by the seasons 
and I havent seen enough evidence to say that the van is unsaleable because it hasnt been 
re-registered by the DVLA as a camper van. For the reasons set out and although I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr O, Im not 
upholding his complaint. As the van has been fully converted inside as a camper van, can be 
used in that capacity, is appropriately insured and can be re-sold as a converted camper van 
I dont think I can reasonably say it has been misrepresented to Mr O. 
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman