DRN-3249021
The complaint
Mr M complains about Santander UK Plc and their refusal to approve his full cash withdrawal 
request in branch.
What happened
On 8 March 2021, Mr M attended his local branch with the intention of withdrawing £2,000 
from his account. He took his debit card as well as further identification in case this was 
needed. Mr M has this withdrawal was needed to pay a tradesman who had completed work 
for him.
But the branch wouldnt allow Mr M to withdraw the full amount for security reasons. So, Mr 
M was only able to withdraw £500 and he says he was forced to borrow the remaining 
amount from someone else in order to pay the tradesman. Mr M was unhappy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think Santander had acted fairly when refusing him access to his own money 
from his own account. He explained this has caused him both inconvenience and 
embarrassment as hed had to source the additional funds and justify delaying payment to 
the tradesman. So, he wanted Santander to explain exactly why hed been prevented from 
withdrawing the full amount and he wanted to be compensated for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused.
Santander responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They explained they had an 
obligation to ensure customers arent falling victim to any scams when they make cash 
withdrawals in branch. And they were satisfied the branch had prevented Mr M from 
withdrawing the full amount due to these concerns. So, while they recognised the 
inconvenience it wouldve caused Mr M, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and so, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this 
response so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they had 
considered a statement from the member of staff that served Mr M in branch. And having 
done so, they were satisfied the staff member, and so Santander as a whole, had acted in 
Mr Ms best interests when limiting the withdrawal due to concerns about why he wished to 
withdraw the £2,000. They recognised Mr M was unlikely to see the situation this way but 
they didnt think they could say Santander had acted unfairly and so; they didnt think 
Santander needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained his belief hed provided a perfectly reasonably explanation 
as to why he needed to the funds. And because of this, he didnt think there was any 
evidence of a scam so Santanders decision to limit his withdrawal was unfair. Mr M also 
made reference to expectations within the legal system. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. Its not in dispute that 
Mr M was unable to withdraw the full £2,000 he needed. And as Mr M says this cash was 
intended to pay a tradesman, I can understand why this wouldve been both inconvenient 
and embarrassing for Mr M as he had to source alternative funding which I recognise is likely 
to have taken some time. I can appreciate why Mr M would be unhappy with this, as he had 
the funds available in his account and the reason for his withdrawal was genuine.
But for me to say Santander have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
outside of their usual business policy when asking Mr M to explain why he was making the 
withdrawal. And if I dont think thats the case, Id then need to be satisfied they acted 
unfairly when deciding the prevent the withdrawal based on the reasons Mr M provided. And 
in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to explain what 
Ive considered and how. Im aware Mr M is unhappy with the way Santander have handled 
his complaint. But complaints handling is an unregulated activity, meaning complaints about 
this dont fall under our services jurisdiction. So, I havent considered this any further. Mr M 
also responded to our investigators recommendation citing expectations set out by the legal 
system. But our service is an alternative to the courts and whilst we can consider legal rules, 
we dont enforce them. Instead, we consider the service provided by a business and whether 
we think it was both fair and reasonable. So, thats what Ive done.
Ive first thought about whether Santander acted fairly, and in line with their policies, when 
asking Mr M to confirm the reason for his withdrawal. And Ive seen Santanders Banking 
Protocol, which explains when a customer makes a request in branch, such a cash 
withdrawal, members of staff should refer to scam guidance to determine if the customer is 
at risk of being victim of a scam.
Mr M was making a significant cash withdrawal from the branch. So, in line with their 
Banking Protocol, I think the member of staff acted fairly and in Mr Ms best interest by 
asking him to confirm the reasoning for the withdrawal to ensure he wasnt being victim of a 
scam. So, I cant say they did anything wrong by deciding to do so.
I recognise Mr Ms point of view that its his account with his money held within it but I still 
think Santander have a responsibility to safeguard it as best they can. In this situation, Mr 
Ms withdrawal had a genuine reason. But had that not been the case, and Mr M been 
allowed to withdraw the funds and lost these funds in a scam, then Santander wouldve been 
held accountable for not safeguarding Mr Ms account. So, I think they acted fairly by 
ensuring they were satisfied this wouldnt be the case. 
Ive then thought about whether Santander acted fairly by limiting Mr Ms withdrawal after he 
provided his reasoning for it. Ive seen the statement provided by the member of staff who 
served Mr M. But this statement was provided almost ten months after the event, meaning 
they were unable to recollect their exact reasoning for the limitation. Although I recognise Mr 
M may be frustrated by this, I dont think this is unreasonable considering the number of withdrawals for different customers theyd have actioned since serving Mr M.
But the member of staff stated they did vaguely recollect the events. And they confirmed 
they followed the scam guidance in place at the time for any transactions over £1,500. And 
they confirmed they werent satisfied with the reasons Mr M provided so agreed to approve a 
withdrawal for a lesser amount, to ensure Mr M was able to access part of the funds he 
required but limit the financial impact if he was falling victim to a scam.
Mr M thinks the reason he provided was good enough for the full amount to be provided to 
him. So, this dispute centres around the opinion of two people and as I dont have a 
recording or transcript of the conversation that was held, Im unable to say for certain whose 
opinion was more valid than the others. But what I am able to say for certain is it was 
Santanders responsibility to ensure Mr Ms account was safeguarded. And Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the member of staffs actions were for any other reason than to act in Mr Ms best 
interests. I think this is shown by the fact they allowed Mr M to withdraw a lesser amount to 
prevent any immediate financial hardship.
So, although I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree and believes he should be able to access at 
his own request, I dont think I can say Santander acted unfairly in this situation. Because of 
this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman