DRN-3505231
The complaint
Mr H complains HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, wont reimburse money he says 
he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr H has received a maturity pay out from another investment in November 2016. He was 
looking for somewhere else to invest his money. He was recommended a business by an 
IFA and subsequently received a cold call from one of Strategy Markets agents. Impressed 
by what he was told was a low risk investment, and that he could expect returns of over 2% 
a month, he decided to invest.
The transactions made were as below:
Date Merchant Amount Payment type
24 November 2016 FXLIDER £5,000 Debit card
20 December 2016 Prime Promo £38,880 Bank transfer
20 December 2016 FXLIDER £4,320 Debit card
23 February 2017 Prime Promo £4,700 Bank transfer
27 February 2017 Prime Promo £25,000 Bank transfer
28 February 2017 Prime Promo £7,300 Bank transfer
August 2017 £9,000 credit
Total loss £76,200
Mr H was told that he would receive a twice-yearly dividend from his investment. He said he 
received about £100 in January 2017, although this isnt shown on his bank statements. And 
he was due another dividend later in the year.
When it came to the dividend payment being due, Mr H says he was being told by Strategy 
Markets that it was having trouble making the payment. So he got in contact with first direct 
to check the information needed for the dividend to be paid. During that conversation 
investment scams cropped up, but Mr H was satisfied he was dealing with a genuine 
business. He was asked if he had done lots of research before investing to which he said he 
had, and he had found lots of positive reviews online. But he did ask what he would need to 
do if he did discover hed been scammed. The call handler explained they had a fraud 
department and gave him the number and opening hours.
The following day, Mr H called to report the scam, although we only have a copy of the 
recording which took place before being transferred through. In this call, Mr H wasnt sure if 
hed been scammed or not and was 90% sure the business was genuine. I understand as a 
result of further communication first direct filed a police report on behalf of Mr H as he was 
very confused about what had happened. It also tried to recover the funds from the receiving 
bank, but none remained.
Ultimately, one of our investigators upheld the complaint. He was satisfied Mr H had likely 
been the victim of a scam. He was also satisfied the payments ought to have triggered its 
security system as they were unusual and uncharacteristic for the account. And had the 
bank intervened he was satisfied the scam would have unravelled and Mr H wouldnt have 
incurred any losses.
The bank didnt agree the outcome. In summary it said:
The first payment was made to a business owned by a UK regulated organisation, 
and there wouldnt have been a way for it to know this was a binary options trading 
business purely from the merchant information.
There were no scam warnings about the businesses involved at the time of the 
transactions.
These types of scams werent prevalent at the time. And some of the general scam 
publications relied on by the investigator werent published at the time of the first 
payment.
It believes more recent standards have been applied to this case than were 
applicable at the time.
It doesnt believe an intervention from it would have unravelled the scam.
It considers Mr H has been contributory negligent as the information given meant he 
ought to have been aware the investment was inherently risky. It considers he ought 
to have questioned the legitimacy of the arrangement.
It doesnt believe 8% interest is fair as the payments didnt cause him to incur interest 
or charges and it feels this in punitive.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 April 2022 explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. I have set out my provisional findings below, but in summary, although I 
found the bank ought to have intervened I didnt think Mr H would have been able to 
discover he was being scammed and so the loss wouldnt have been prevented. 
My provisional findings. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay.
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into making payments, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and cams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud of financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. The bank is fully aware of our approach to this.
The payments Mr H made were by debit card and bank transfer. I therefore conclude these 
were authorised payments  for which Mr H is liable, unless there is evidence the bank could and have done more to protect him, and that would have made a difference, which issue I 
now turn to.
The first question I need to ask myself is whether Mr H has actually fallen victim to a scam. I 
understand the police felt he had. Im also aware that in 2018 there was a warning published 
by the FCA to say that Strategy Markets was operating in the UK without authorisation, and 
this quite often  but not always  is an indicator of a scam business.
However, I also need to take into account that some of the payments went to FXLIDER a 
trading name of Fortrade Ltd, which is a legitimate trading firm, and which I understand is 
based and regulated abroad. Its unclear what connection there is, if any, between FXLIDER 
and Strategy Markets or how the latter would have ended up with Mr Hs funds such that it 
could deprive him of them. And I cannot locate any information about Prime Promo at all, or 
what part it had to play.
Im also mindful that Mr H received £9,000 back in August 2017. Whilst this was a small sum 
compared to the overall sum he invested, this is quite unusual for a scam company to do 
after concerns have been raised, as happened here. I therefore think its far from certain that 
Mr H has been scammed, rather than him losing money to a high-risk investment.
But even if I agreed he had been scammed Im not currently minded to find the bank ought 
to reimburse Mr H.
Mr H has recently received a substantial sum into his account. And so making large 
payments out following that, wouldnt necessarily be considered unusual. However, I do 
agree with the investigator that even the first payment of £5,000 was substantially larger 
than any relatively recent payments made by Mr H, and it was to a new payee. So I do think 
it ought to have triggered its security systems and payment paused so that appropriate 
questions could have been asked.
But its here that I disagree with the investigators findings. Even if the bank had intervened, 
Im not persuaded the scam would have unravelled at the first payment. I say this because I 
cannot locate any contemporaneous information from late 2016 that would indicate Strategy 
Markets was operating a scam. Although there was some information in the public domain 
about Binary Options and that these sometimes transpired to be scams, I havent been able 
to find anything about this business.
I have considered whether a general scam warning would have been sufficient to stop Mr H 
from investing. But I dont think it would have been. The business Mr H was actually paying 
initially was FXLIDER which was a genuine business. So even had the bank explained that 
some binary options firms werent legitimate, I dont think Mr H could have uncovered that 
applied to him. In saying this, Im mindful that when Mr H spoke with the bank about 
receiving his dividend, hed said he had carried out research into the business and found lots 
of positive online reviews. I think this would have reassured him about what he was doing 
such that he wouldnt have paused.
Ive also considered that Mr H made the first payment to Prime Promo via telephone 
banking. And I think most reasonable people would agree that payment was for a very 
substantial sum. However, the bank asked very few questions about the transaction and it 
only came to light that Mr H was investing because he volunteered the information when 
asked if he was buying anything nice. So I do accept there was a missed opportunity for the 
bank to intervene here as well.
But, and without the benefit of hindsight, Im not persuaded this would have stopped Mr H 
investing either. Mr H knew he was paying a different company to the one he was investing with. And as set out above, I cannot find any information about Prime Promo at all or what 
part it had. And there still didnt appear to be any negative information about Strategy 
Markets either at that time. Mr H was also able to track his investments and saw his trades 
were doing well and was being given promises of account upgrades and bonuses, which 
would likely have reassured him into believing his investment was doing well. Im not sure a 
scam warning at this time would have stopped Mr H from investing, I think he was likely too 
far under the spell of the scam that he wouldnt have stopped. Indeed, even when initially 
referring the matter to our office, he still wasnt sure hed been scammed.
Although there had been some general warnings in the public domain by Action Fraud and 
the European Securities and Markets Authority in mid-2016 about binary options, the scam 
tactics used here  cold calling, upgrading accounts, the promise of bonuses etc  werent 
so well known then; they were only just starting to become more prevalent. So I dont think if 
the bank had asked more questions, and Mr H explained what was happening, that it would 
necessarily have been apparent that he might have been falling victim to a scam. And even 
had it warned him that was possible and advised him to do research, I dont think this would 
have stopped him either; Mr H told us that he came to this business via an IFA (independent 
financial adviser) and that he had done research and found lots of positive reviews. So he 
already taken many of the steps he could have been advised to take.
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr H finds himself, overall Im not 
currently minded to uphold his complaint. Whilst I agree the bank missed opportunities to 
intervene, Im not persuaded it would have come to light that Mr H might be being scammed 
such that he wouldnt have made the payments. As I think he would have continued 
investing, I dont find any basis on which to fairly ask the bank to reimburse him. Im am of 
course happy to consider any new evidence or arguments that Mr H has. 
The bank responded and said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr H as provided further 
argument for my consideration. I have read all of his submissions and summarised them as:
He is part of a large Whatsapp messaging group along with 40 or so other people 
who have been scammed by Strategy Markets. 
The payment I had listed as payment number three was in fact payment two  which 
I have already changed in the table above. 
The bank has fallen short and central to this is the lack of intervention.  The second 
payment made ought to have set alarm bells ringing. Instead questions werent 
asked until he was expecting a dividend payment.  
The Quincecare duty requires bank to show care and skill when executing clients 
orders. The unusual payment amount and that he said it was for an investment 
should have been cause for an alert. 
Its typical for scammers to pay some money out, to lure the customer into a false 
sense of security. 
His endowment pay out cant be termed as an investment as it was life assurance for 
his childrens protection. 
He has detailed the conversation when making the second payment and doesnt 
believe that the bank did sufficient due diligence about the transaction. 
Had the bank warned him about unregulated contractors and possible scams he 
wouldnt have continued with his dealings with Strategy Markets.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Although I have only summarised Mr Hs response to my provisional findings, I would like to 
reassure him I have read and considered his arguments. If I havent listed a point or I dont 
respond to it, its not because I havent taken account of it, but rather because it isnt central 
to my final decision. 
At the outset, given what Mr H has said about his Whatsapp group and the number of other 
people affected, Im happy to accept he was scammed. I have also already changed the 
order of the payments made, in line with his submissions about those. 
I think it fair to say that much of Mr Hs arguments centre around the bank carrying out due 
diligence and intervening if a payment looks suspicious. Im aware of the law surrounding 
this area, including what Mr H has referred to as the Quincecare duty, and I dont disagree 
with anything he has said. As hell note from my provisional findings, I found the bank ought 
to have intervened in the first payment made as it was unusual and out of character for his 
account. And I also found, as Mr H has acknowledged, the bank missed an opportunity to 
intervene when he made the second  much larger  payment via telephone banking. So 
although Mr H has made further submissions about that, I dont need to add to my findings  
I agree the bank ought to have intervened.
 
However, in order to require the bank to reimburse Mr H, I need to be persuaded that an 
intervention from the bank would have led to Mr H discovering the potential scam for himself 
and so stop making payments. And in my provisional findings, I set out why I didnt think that 
would have happened. Whilst Mr H is sure he wouldnt have carried on his dealings with 
Strategy Markets if the bank had provided a warning, Im not persuaded that is how events 
would have unfolded for the reasons previously given. I havent been able to locate any 
information at all to show that it was recognised either officially (regulatory websites and 
such like) or unofficially (chat rooms and forums etc) that Strategy Markets was a scammer 
at the time Mr H was making payments. 
Mr H has also mentioned not being able to carry out trades himself. That might have been 
so, but the point I was making in my provisional decision was in relation to the first payment 
made to Prime Promo and whether an intervention at that point would have stopped further 
losses. Mr H had reported seeing his trades doing well, being given promises of upgrades 
and bonuses, all which would have led to a reassurance his investment was doing well. I am 
satisfied Mr H had been so far under the scammers spell that I dont think a warning would 
have stopped him from making any further payments  this was supported by Mr H still not 
being sure hed been scammed when asking us to look into his complaint. Whilst that might 
have been because he wanted to believe it was a legitimate company, this does 
nevertheless point to his thinking and beliefs at the time. 
I have considered Mr Hs points carefully, but they havent caused to me change my 
provisional findings. I am sorry he has lost money, but for the reasons given I dont uphold 
his complaint. 
Mr H has also made some other points, which although not central to my decision making, I 
will respond to. 
Although Mr Hs endowment might have been as life insurance for his childrens protection, it 
is nevertheless an investment. Endowments can be invested into a wide range of areas and 
are dependent investment returns for growth; they can and do perform badly. 
Mr H has referred to pay outs being quite usual in scams to lure the customer into a false 
sense of security. I agree and accept his point, this is a known method of scammers to 
obtain further funds from their victims. But, as emphasised in my provisional decision, this is 
far less common after a customer as already raised concerns; scammers will usually take all available funds once they have been discovered and not return anything. Here Mr H 
received £9,000 back after concerns had already been raised and I remain of the view that 
isnt typical behaviour for a scammer.     
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman