DRN-2280777
The complaint
Miss B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Seat 
Financial Services (VWFS) irresponsibly approved a hire purchase agreement for her that 
she couldnt afford.
Her complaint was brought on her behalf by her father, Mr B.
What happened
On 9 December 2019 Miss B took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to finance the 
purchase of a used car. The car was three years old and had travelled 20,000 miles. The 
agreement was for £19,795, with monthly repayments of £435 over 60 months.
Mr B said Miss B and her partner wanted a more reliable car for her partners commute to 
work. He said the agreement was only in Miss Bs name as her partner had a poor credit 
score.
He said she was declined for a PCP agreement, and offered the hire purchase agreement. 
He said Miss B believed the agreement was affordable, because the agreement had been 
approved by VWFS, and because she could pay the monthly payments from her partners 
salary whilst she was on maternity leave.
On 12 December 2019, Miss Bs father contacted the dealer to complain that the hire 
purchase agreement was unaffordable. He said the dealer hadnt taken proper account of 
her monthly expenditure. He said he discussed this with the dealer and was told Miss B 
would have been left to complete the income and expenditure form on her own.
He said hed met with the dealer whod confirmed that Miss B had informed the dealer she 
was pregnant.
He complained to VWFS on 14 December 2020. He said he discussed the issue with them 
and theyd advised him that Miss B could cancel the agreement. He said this would be 
difficult as Miss B believed the agreement was affordable and wanted to keep the car.
VWFS said Miss Bs application had been auto approved. They said shed passed their 
affordability check, and their credit reference agency check showed no adverse information. 
They also said shed declared that the loan was affordable.
  
Unhappy with their response, Mr B brought the complaint to this service on behalf of Miss B.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She felt that the checks VWFS did to assess 
whether or not the agreement was affordable for Miss B were not sufficient. But she felt that 
if they had conducted sufficient and proportionate checks theyd still have lent, as theyd 
have relied on income and expenditure information provided by Miss B.
Mr B contested the income and expenditure information our investigator relied on, and the 
matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when VWFS lent to Miss B. It 
required VWFS to lend responsibly. Its rules and guidance are found in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), available online. The rules required VWFS to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
The relevant rules are set out in CONC 5.3.1(G). They require VWFS to assess 
creditworthiness. The rules stated that VWFS needed to consider Miss Bs ability to meet 
the repayments in a sustainable manner. This means without her needing to borrow from 
elsewhere or rely on assets or savings, and without going into financial difficulty.
 
The rules dont set out what VWFS needed to do to carry out an appropriate assessment or 
how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. Whats proportionate would 
depend on a number of factors including the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation  amongst other factors.
The rules require VWFS checks to be borrower-focussed. Its not an assessment of the risk 
to VWFS of them not getting their money back: its the risk to the borrower, Miss B, of getting 
into financial difficulty as a result of the decision to lend.
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the borrower.
When considering Miss Bs complaint, I have considered the following questions:
did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Bs application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the agreement in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
VWFS said that Miss Bs application was auto-approved. They havent provided full details 
of what this check involved, but said that they checked the credit reference agency file. They 
also relied on the statement Miss B signed to say the loan was affordable.
Its unreasonable for a business to rely on a declaration made by the consumer. The rules 
Ive quoted above place a responsibility on the business to conduct a borrower focussed 
check to satisfy itself that the agreement is affordable. And that should be more through with 
the commitment Miss B was taking on: £435 every month for five years is a significant 
commitment. So, like our investigator, Im not satisfied that VWFS completed a reasonable 
and proportionate check to ensure the agreement was affordable for Miss B.So what would a reasonable and proportionate check look like, and would it have changed 
VWFS decision to lend?
Our investigator reviewed the information provided by Mr B about Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. She took this from the bank statements provided by Mr B, along with other 
information he provided. Mr B has challenged the assumptions our investigator made, and 
the figures shes used.
My starting point is with the checks I think VWFS should have conducted. They did a credit 
reference agency check, and whilst that isnt necessary under the rules, its a good place to 
start. Mr B has told us that at the time Miss B had a good credit score. 
The credit report hes provided shows that Miss B had bank accounts and credit cards with 
different providers. All of these were up to date, with no arrears or defaults.
CONC 5.2A.12R required VWFS to consider Miss Bs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an 
open-end agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another 
person, income received by the customer jointly with another person or 
income received by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect 
such income to be available to the customer to make repayments under the 
agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an 
intention to repay (wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or 
statutory obligation to make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation.
To do this Id have expected VWFS to confirm Miss Bs income  its not clear if they did 
that, but Mr B has told us Miss Bs annual salary. 
Part (2)(b) of the above rule, allowed VWFS to consider her partners income. Hed started a 
new job, and this was one of the main reasons for getting the new car. So I think it would 
have been reasonable for VWFS to take this into account.
Mr B provided us with Miss Bs bank statements for the three-month period before she 
entered into the agreement. She had accounts with three banks, and a joint house account 
she shared with her partner  it appears that utility and other bills were paid from this 
account. If VWFS had reviewed Miss Bs bank statements for the period theyd have seen 
that all of the accounts had a positive balance, with one ending each of the three months in 
the period with a balance of more than £1,000, and the house account having a balance at 
the end of each month of between £640 and £740.
I think it would have been reasonable at this point for VWFS to have made the lending 
decision based on this information. Theyd have seen the salary, the credit report with no 
defaults, and bank statements showing someone who appeared to be manage their finances 
well. Id consider it reasonable in these circumstances to consider a lending decision at this 
point to be proportionate.The next issue to consider is whether or not the agreement was sustainable. Miss B was 
pregnant at the time she took out the agreement. VWFS couldnt discriminate against or 
refuse to lend to Miss B only on the basis that she was pregnant. I think it was reasonable 
for them to assume that Miss B wouldve continued to meet the payments through her 
partners income and her own savings  and again this is reasonable and permitted under 
CONC 5.2A.12R.
I appreciate the time and effort Mr B spent providing detailed evidence of Miss Bs income 
and expenditure. Id like to assure him that Ive carefully considered this information and the 
detailed points hes made. But I have to consider what I think was likely to have happened at 
the time the agreement was taken out, and what steps I wouldve expected VWFS to have 
taken.
I wouldnt have expected them to conduct an in-depth review of her expenditure, and not to 
the detail Mr B has gone into. This is because, as Ive said above, Im satisfied there was 
sufficient information for VWFS to consider the agreement was likely to be affordable.
As Ive stated above, I think it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate, and in line with 
the rules set out in CONC, for VWFS to base its lending decision on a review of Miss Bs 
credit reference file, her income, and her bank statements. And I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for VWFS to conclude from that information that the agreement was affordable.
If Miss B is now in financial difficulty, Id expect VWFS to treat her with appropriate 
forbearance and due consideration, including agreeing to a reasonable affordable repayment 
proposal. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman