DRN-3193128
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy at interest, fees and charges added to her secured loan account by Swift 
1st Limited trading as Swift Advances. She is also unhappy at the way Swift operates.
  
What happened
In April 2006 Mrs M took out a secured loan with Swift. She borrowed £18,000 over a term of 
15 years at an initial variable interest rate of 15.5%, with monthly repayments of £245.50, 
making the total amount repayable £44,190.
Unfortunately, in January 2007 Mrs M fell into arrears. Since then, the account has been in 
arrears for most of the time. Missed or late payments have resulted in additional interest 
being added to the loan balance, as well as fees and charges which themselves attract 
interest. In June 2015 Swift was granted a possession order by the court.
In March 2021 Swift wrote to Mrs M explaining that, if she continued to pay the contractual 
monthly instalment (at that point £263.41), at the end of the term there would be about 
£50,000 still outstanding.
Mrs M complained to Swift, which issued its final response on 18 May 2021. Swift didnt 
uphold the complaint, explaining how the outstanding balance had accrued due to missed 
payments, interest, fees and charges. Swift also clarified that it was required to explain that 
Mrs Ms home might be at risk in the event that the balance owed is not repaid.
Mrs M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 21 May 2021, as the loan 
reached the end of its term. Mrs M was unhappy about the way the loan had been dealt with 
from the start, and about the interest, fees and charges added to the account.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She noted that Swift hadnt agreed to us looking at 
some of the issues Mrs M was unhappy about, because these were out of time. The 
investigator was satisfied that we could only consider fees and charges added to the account 
since November 2013.
After reviewing the file, the investigator thought Swift should refund four £70 fees (a total of 
£280). Initially shed thought Swift should also refund certain legal and administrative 
expenses, but after reviewing further evidence about these, she didnt think Swift needed to 
do anything other than pay the £280. The investigator didnt think Swift had mis-handled the 
account, or that it had treated Mrs M unfairly by explaining that her home was at risk if the 
loan wasnt repaid. 
Swift agreed to refund the fees, but Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mrs M says that it is so unfair that Swift 
can continue to trade and wants me to investigate whether charging compound interest is 
fair and legal.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 30 November 2021 I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that, due to a previous final 
response letter, and because of the time that had elapsed, I would only be considering fees 
and charges added to the account since November 2013. I understand Mrs M is unhappy 
about this and has argued that the Financial Ombudsman Service is there to protect the 
consumer. We are not, however, consumer champions; my role is to be impartial, apply our 
rules and consider the evidence in order to reach a fair conclusion. This includes applying 
the time limits specified in our rules.
Ive noted the points Mrs M has made about Swift being allowed to trade, and about the 
unfairness of compound interest. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a 
regulator, and I have no power to interfere with the way Swift conducts its business, 
including the (industry standard) practice of applying compound interest to the outstanding 
balance. 
Ive reviewed the fees and charges applied to the account since November 2013. I agree 
with the investigator that the four £70 charges applied in June 2014, August 2014, 
December 2014 and April 2015 should be removed from the account (along with any interest 
applied to those payments). Thats because in each of those months Mrs M made a payment 
in excess of the current monthly instalment. Im glad to note that Swift has acknowledged it 
should remove those fees.
Ive looked at other fees and charges applied to the account. Im satisfied these have been 
applied in accordance with Swifts terms and conditions and tariff of charges. Im also 
satisfied that, given the account conduct and the work Swift was required to do as a result, 
the charges have been fairly applied.
Im also not persuaded Swift has treated Mrs M unfairly by reminding her that her home is at 
risk if the loan isnt repaid; its a standard narrative that the regulator requires lenders to 
include in such correspondence. The contract Mrs M entered into with Swift was for a fixed 
term, which expired more than six months ago. Although Swift is under a regulatory 
obligation to treat Mrs M fairly, it is also entitled to be repaid the outstanding balance on the 
loan. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. I can see she is very worried about 
how she will repay the balance due to Swift. Mrs M will have been aware for a number of 
years from the information on her annual statements that her balance was increasing, not 
going down. Swift has explained in its correspondence to Mrs M the implications of this, and 
since at least 2015 has clarified how much she would need to increase her monthly 
repayments by in order to pay off the loan by the end of the term (which expired in May 
2021). 
Given this, although I understand Mrs M thinks its unfair that Swift can ask for repayment, it 
is entitled to be paid the full balance of the loan. It is within Swifts discretion and commercial 
judgment whether or not to accept a short settlement, but any consideration Swift might give 
to that that would be based on full and frank disclosure by Mrs M of her financial position, 
together with documented evidence of a source of funds.
I see that Swift has provided Mrs M with details of free debt advisory services. Mrs M might 
also find it helpful to speak to a mortgage broker to explore the option of re-mortgaging in order to pay off the loan to Swift. The Financial Conduct Authority website lists mortgage 
brokers local to Mrs M, should she want to consider that option.
  
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of the complaint, I require Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift 
Advances to remove from Mrs Ms account the four £70 fees detailed above, together with 
interest applied to those charges. I make no other order or award.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and direct Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift 
Advances to remove fees totalling £280, plus associated interest, as detailed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman