DRN-3644999
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Southern Rock Insurance Company (Southern Rock) has declined a theft
claim made under his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Southern Rock. In June 2020 his van
was unfortunately stolen so he contacted Southern Rock to make a claim under his policy.
During the course of the claim, Southern Rock checked Mr As policy details that they held.
As part of this, his occupation was confirmed.
When taking out the policy online, via a broker, Mr A had said he was a sales manager, in
the clothing trade. However, Mr A is a market trader, selling clothing.
Southern Rock said that Mr A had misrepresented his occupation when taking out the policy
online and that if they had known he was a market trader, they wouldnt have offered cover
as this is outside their acceptable occupation underwriting criteria.
On this basis, Southern Rock declined Mr As theft claim. They also kept the premiums hed
paid for the policy. They said Mr A hadnt made a fair presentation of risk and the breach
was deliberate or reckless. Mr A was unhappy with this, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said
Southern Rock had acted fairly by declining the claim and retaining the premiums, as Mr A
had misrepresented his occupation. She said this was in line with the relevant law that
applied.
Mr A didnt agree, and the case was passed to me for a final decision.
I reached broadly the same overall outcome as our investigator, but for different reasons. 
So, I issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same overall outcome as our investigator, 
that Southern Rock hasnt acted unfairly, but for different reasons. So, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
provisional findings before I reach my final decision.
Our investigator said that Southern Rock hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim 
and retaining the premiums on the basis Mr A had deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented his occupation.
The investigator said this was in line with the relevant law, which she said was the
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). However, 
CIDRA applies to individual consumer contracts of insurance.
Here though, Mr A has a commercial insurance policy. And the policy is for his 
commercial vehicle, which is being used for purposes such as carrying stock (stock 
was also in it when it was stolen), in connection with his occupation. So, Mr A is a 
commercial customer, with a commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Therefore, CIDRA, which is relevant for consumer contracts of insurance doesnt 
apply here. Instead, for commercial consumers and commercial contracts of 
insurance, the Insurance Act 2015 applies.
In summary, this says that Mr A had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to the
insurer. And this includes disclosing every material circumstance which the insured
knows, or ought to know. Or failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient
information to put a prudent insurer on notice to make further enquiries for the
purpose of revealing those material circumstances.
I first need to decide whether Mr A has provided a fair presentation of risk to
Southern Rock. Mr A told Southern Rock that his occupation was a sales manager, in 
the clothing trade. Whereas it was later confirmed he was a market trader rather than 
a sales manager. Mr A has also told this service a number of times he is a market 
trader and provided a copy of his market trader licence. So, Im satisfied that Mr A 
should have told Southern Rock that his occupation was a market trader, rather than 
a sales manager.
I now need to consider whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying breach. This 
means, if Mr A had told Southern Rock the correct occupation, would they have 
acted differently, by not offering him the insurance policy or offering it on different 
terms.
Whilst I cant share the information as it is commercially sensitive, Southern Rock 
has demonstrated to this service that if they had been aware of Mr As correct 
occupation, as a market trader, they wouldnt have been able to offer an insurance 
policy. So, Im satisfied that there was a qualifying breach.
The Insurance Act 2015 allows Southern Rock a number of remedies if there has 
been a qualifying breach.
Southern Rock says it has treated the misrepresentation and qualifying breach as 
deliberate or reckless and this is why it has retained the premiums and declined his 
claim. A deliberate or reckless breach is outlined in the Insurance Act 2015 as:(5) A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured 
(a) knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or
(b) did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty.
(6) It is for the insurer to show that a qualifying breach is deliberate or 
reckless.
I dont think that Southern Rock has shown there was a deliberate breach, that
Mr A sought to deliberately deceive them when taking out a policy to obtain a policy 
which he would otherwise have been unable to obtain. However, Im minded to agree 
that it has shown Mr As breach was reckless.
The documentation Mr A was provided after taking out the policy online outlined the
occupation he had declared was a sales manager, rather than market trader, and 
was clear that Mr As occupation was something Southern Rock needed to know. 
And the terms of the policy explained in several places, prominently, the importance 
of correct information, and that the policy may be cancelled, claims refused, or you 
may lose your premium if the information was incorrect.
So, Im minded to conclude it was fair and reasonable for Southern Rock to treat the
qualifying breach as reckless.
The Insurance Act 2015 explains the remedies available to insurers where there is 
qualifying breach, and of relevance here, deliberate or reckless breaches:
Deliberate or reckless breaches
If a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, the insurer 
(a) may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
(b) need not return any of the premiums paid.
Southern Rock says it wouldnt have offered a policy had they known Mr As correct
occupation, and Im satisfied they have demonstrated this. And as Im minded to 
agree the qualifying breach was reckless, they are able to retain the premiums, as 
they have done here.
Southern Rock was also entitled to void the policy (treat it as if it never existed) under 
the Insurance Act 2015 as outlined. But they said the policy was already lapsed by 
that point, so there was no policy in force at the time to void, and instead they 
declined the claim and retained the premiums.
Im unsure why Southern Rock didnt retrospectively void the policy in line with the 
remedies under the Insurance Act 2015, despite the policy lapsing. But nevertheless, 
by not voiding it, this arguably puts Mr A in a more favourable position than he 
otherwise wouldve been if Southern Rock had exercised its full rights and voided the 
policy too. So, I cant say it has acted unfairly by not doing so and leaving Mr A in a 
more favourable position than he could otherwise have been.
The policy documents outlined failure to make a fair presentation could result in a 
claim not being paid and losing the premiums, so this warning and consequences of 
incorrect information being provided were made clear in Mr As policy documents, 
and this is what Southern Rock has done.
Our investigator also said Mr A didnt select the correct usage of his vehicle when 
taking out the policy. When Mr As son reported the claim, he said the vehicle had 
been filled with stock ready to take to market, and it does look like he may not have 
had cover for this.However, I dont need to reach a decision on whether Mr A was or wasnt using his 
vehicle in line with the usage he selected, as Southern Rock hasnt declined the 
claim or retained the premiums on this basis, instead its on the basis of Mr As 
occupation being misrepresented, which Ive talked about above.
Therefore, as outlined above, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
The responses to my provisional decision
Southern Rock responded and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr A responded to say it was never his intention to falsify matters, but he can understand 
Southern Rocks refusal of his claim. However, Mr A says that if Southern Rock would never 
have accepted the policy if he told them his true occupation, he should receive a refund of 
the premiums. He doesnt think Southern Rock should be able to refuse the claim and keep 
the premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, and 
the responses received to it. Having done so, I havent changed my mind.
As explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Mr A shouldve told Southern Rock 
that he was a market trader and that there was a qualifying breach. I also recognised what 
Mr A has said, that he didnt intend to falsify matters - I said in my provisional decision that I 
didnt think Southern Rock had shown it was deliberate. But I thought it was reckless.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr A doesnt think Southern Rock should be able to decline the claim 
and retain the premiums, as I outlined in my provisional decision, this is in line with a 
reckless breach under the Insurance Act 2015 - which is what applies here. And as I also 
outlined, arguably Mr A is in a better position than he would otherwise have been, as 
Southern Rock didnt void the policy retrospectively, as the policy had already lapsed.
So, with the above and my provisional decision in mind, I dont think Southern Rock has 
acted unfairly in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman