DRN-3464405
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) have 
unfairly registered a default on his credit card account. He says that this could have been 
avoided if the bank had answered his telephone calls to them.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card account with Barclaycard in around January 1996. He made use 
of it and kept his payments up to date for many years. 
During the Covid-19 pandemic, and associated lockdowns, Mr Rs income became less 
reliable. He says that between March 2020 and June 2021, he tried to telephone the bank in 
order to discuss his financial difficulties and to seek assistance. He says that none of these 
calls were answered. Due to a change of mobile phone provider, he is unable to provide call 
logs in support of this. Barclaycard says that it has no record of any contact from Mr R, but 
confirms that its call centres were staffed at lower levels due to the pandemic.
In May 2021, Mr R missed his monthly credit card payment. Barclaycard wrote to him on 30 
May 2021 to confirm this missed payment. On 1 June 2021, Mr R successfully contacted the 
bank by telephone. He explained that he was in some financial difficulty, and asked for 
assistance. Mr R says that the appropriate response to his difficulties was to refund the 
interest applied since April 2020, when he first tried to contact them.
During that call of 1 June 2021, Barclaycard took Mr R through his income and expenditure, 
identifying a monthly shortfall of over £800. They say that, in the circumstances, no plan 
could be put in place and that a default notice was issued immediately. This meant that no 
further interest would be applied and gave Mr R two months to bring his account up to date. 
Mr R did not make any further payments, and the default was registered with the credit 
reference agencies on 4 August 2021.
Our investigator did not think that Barclaycard had done anything wrong here. They noted 
that Mr R had described difficulties in contacting the bank, but thought that the default was 
properly applied in the circumstances.
Mr R did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr R had difficulty in contacting Barclaycard between April 2020 and June 
2021. While I cannot say how many times he tried to call, I am satisfied that this is true, 
particularly as the bank describes being short-staffed during the pandemic. But I also note 
that each of the monthly statements on the account gave a correspondence address for the 
bank, to which Mr R did not write. I would have expected him to do so if he was in real need 
of assistance. I can also see that two days after the letter about a missed payment was sent, 
Mr R was successful in getting through to Barclaycard by telephone. 
On balance, I think it is likely that Mr R attached more importance to the call of 1 June 2021, 
and perhaps stayed on the line for longer. Given that he was making payments during the 
relevant period, and given the negative monthly income he had after it, I do not think that 
staffing levels at the call centre impacted Mr Rs ability to maintain the account, nor the 
default which followed.
Mr Rs negative monthly income in June 2021 meant that it would have been unfair for 
Barclaycard to make any agreement for payments going forward. This would have been 
setting him up to fail immediately. By sending the default notice and charging no further 
interest, they were acting both fairly and reasonably. I think that this was in Mr Rs best 
interests at that time, in that it limited the arears which would build up and the fees and 
interest which would fall due.
While I understand Mr R wants the interest already charged to be refunded, I cannot say that 
this is fair or reasonable. Barclaycard were entitled to apply interest as they did in line with 
the terms and conditions on the account. Once the bank were aware of his financial 
difficulties, they took reasonable steps to assist Mr R. It would not be fair to require them to 
act on information they did not have. 
Mr R did not contact the bank again after the default notice, and made no further payments. 
The account was in three months worth of arrears when the default was registered. This 
action is in line with usual standard practice, and reflects Barclaycards duty to provide 
accurate and up to date information to the credit reference agencies. I think that recording 
the default with the credit reference agencies was fair and reasonable.
While I can certainly understand and sympathise with the financial difficulties which were 
caused to Mr R by the pandemic, I am afraid that I do not think that Barclaycard made a 
mistake. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman