DRN-3189334
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr F took out in 2020 on the 
advice of RSL Retirement Solutions Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage was 
mis-sold. Mr F is represented in this complaint by Mr B. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr F took the mortgage out in 2020. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly 
repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is repaid when the borrower 
goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either 
of those events have happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is payable. Also, 
the mortgage contract provides for the debt to be transferred to a new mortgage secured on 
a different property if the borrower wishes to move, on the proviso that the new property is 
acceptable security for the lender.
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr B raised several issues about why he thinks the mortgage was mis-sold: chief amongst 
these is that Mr F wants or needs to move house, and hes now restricted in the type of 
property he can buy if he wants the lender to accept his new home as security for another 
mortgage. Mr B has said the type of property Mr F is likely to need wont be acceptable to 
the lender.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr B asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr F is a consumer, and so 
meets the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr B is 
bringing the complaint on Mr Fs behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr B represents Mr F, it is Mr F who is RSLs customer. Its 
Mr Bs role to bring the complaint on Mr Fs behalf, in the same way that other consumers 
might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. This does not entitle 
Mr B to air his own grievances about RSL, because he is not its customer; his role is limited 
to putting forward Mr Fs complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether RSL did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening time might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mr B says we have ignored all of his testimony and simply favoured what RSL said. The 
position is a little more nuanced than that. As the party bringing the complaint, Mr F or Mr B 
on his behalf, has to present a version of events that is more likely (not equally as likely) 
than RSLs version, based on the supporting evidence. Ill explain next why Im not 
persuaded that test has been met.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2020. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it, especially when, as is the case here, the applicant has 
signed to confirm his acceptance of the recommendation and the information on which it was 
based. Mr F did that on 2 July 2020.
Staying with the point of sale documentation for a moment, its not a requirement (whether 
legal, moral, regulatory or any other reason) for equity release applicants to involve their 
family in the transaction. If they do not, thats not evidence of a procedural failing on the part 
of the advisor; its more likely to just be an indication that the applicants wished to keep their 
business private. The advisor should recommend applicants tell their family, and in 
proceeding with the application on the basis of the information-gathering exercise, Mr F 
confirmed RSL had done that.The information-gathering exercise also identified specific financial objectives. Mr B says 
some of these were impractical and/or fictitious, but Id remind him that by proceeding with 
the application, Mr F confirmed the information to be true and accurate at the time. The 
same exercise also indicated that Mr F would need some form of borrowing if he was to be 
able to realise his stated objectives. Mr B has talked extensively about Mr Fs intentions to 
move house; I dont disbelieve him, but theres simply no mention of that in the point-of-sale 
information RSL was relying on when it made its recommendation.
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at the time, its very 
unlikely that Mr F would have been accepted for a traditional mortgage, given his age and 
circumstances, always assuming he wanted, or was able, to resume making regular monthly 
payments. 
That indicates to me that an equity release mortgage was probably the only viable option for 
Mr F in 2020 given the circumstances recorded at the time. The mortgage RSL arranged for 
Mr F raised the money hed asked for, after taking into account the transactions costs. 
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 17 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Looking again at Mr Fs situation as recorded at the time and taking into account the reasons 
why RSL recommended the particular lifetime mortgage it did, Im not convinced Mr F would 
or could have done anything different from what he did. He had approached RSL to say he 
wanted to borrow money, and this was in all likelihood the only way he could borrow it. 
Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was 
arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time. Its 
possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr F subsequently changed his mind 
about what hed do with the money, but RSLs duty was to give suitable advice, which Im 
satisfied it did. RSL couldnt insist Mr F follow every aspect of the advice it had given him. 
Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers behaviour after the sale to ensure he did what 
hed said he were going to do.
That brings me to the question of health. Its reasonable to infer that the information about 
Mr Fs health came from Mr F himself during the fact-find interview, and I again come back 
to the fact that Mr F declared the information hed given the advisor to be correct when he 
applied for the mortgage. 
Mr B has said Mr F wasnt well enough to understand what he was transacting, but was 
vulnerable to being manipulated. That isnt actually something on which I can make a 
finding, not even on the balance of probabilities. To attempt to do so would require me to go 
beyond assessing what is most likely and resort to mere speculation; Im not prepared to do 
that. However, I dont believe I need to in order to decide this complaint. 
Thats because, before he took out the mortgage Mr F was required to have independent 
legal advice from a solicitor. The solicitor was one of two alternatives nominated by RSL, but 
was engaged by Mr F and acted solely for him. Thats been standard practice for many 
years, and is accepted by the FCA. The solicitor executed a certificate to confirm that the 
terms of the mortgage had been explained to Mr F and that he understood them. I think that if the solicitor had had any concerns that Mr F didnt understand (or indeed, 
wasnt capable of understanding) the nature and effect of what he was signing, he wouldnt 
have been advised to proceed with it. Mr B has said the solicitor didnt properly explain 
things to Mr F; if he wishes to pursue that, its a matter to take up with the solicitor, and then 
the Legal Ombudsman if need be. Its not in the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr F is here, its a natural subjective reaction 
to see things in a particular way. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and 
impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine detail and taking an 
overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question 
that comes up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman