DRN-4468224
The complaint
Mr C says Harbour Rock Capital Limited (HRCL), trading as Portafina Investment 
Management Limited, was responsible for the delay in transferring his defined benefit (DB) 
pension into a personal pension. He says this caused him trouble and financial detriment.
What happened
In his view letter, the Investigator set out the chronology of events that led to Mr Cs 
complaint. This was constructed from his testimony, evidence from HRCL and information 
from his DB pension administrator (Mercer). Neither party to the case initially contested the 
broad sweep of this timeline. I wont rehearse the details in full. Nevertheless, its necessary 
to summarise the main interactions.
In June 2020, Pension Bee on behalf of Mr C obtained a transfer quote from Mercer. The 
transfer value was guaranteed until August 2020.
In September 2020 Mr C was in contact with HRCL. He gave it his authority to obtain 
information about his DB pension from Mercer. It requested a transfer value quotation and 
chased this. On 22 September 2020 Mercer confirmed it had received the information 
request and it would send HRCL the policy information subject to carrying out necessary 
checks.
Mercer emailed Mr C on 17 November 2020 confirming that as hed already had his free 
quote for the year, a new estimate would be required and hed have to pay for this. He 
confirmed on 25 November 2020 that he was willing to pay for another quote. Mercer says it 
sent Mr C a copy of the new transfer value on 23 December 2020. This had a guaranteed 
period until 16 March 2021.
During this period HRCL had been requesting information from Mercer about his DB 
pension. But Mercer said it couldnt share anything because of a problem with its record of 
his personal details.
Between September 2020 and 6 January 2021 it seems matters became bogged down 
between all three parties due to Mr Cs change of address. Although he called HRCL to 
inform it on 23 September 2020 of his change of address, and there was subsequent to and 
fro on the subject between the parties, it wasnt until 4 January 2021 that a personal 
information form with his new details was provided to HRCL. It then emailed this to Mercer 
shortly afterwards.
On 6 January 2021, HRCL sent another request to Mercer for Mr Cs DB pension 
information. On 18 January 2021 Mercer sent HRCL a copy of the transfer value quote it had 
provided to him in December 2020. This was incomplete and HRCL chased Mercer for the 
missing information which was received on 27 January 2021.
HRCL completed a free pension review for Mr C on 5 February 2021. He called on 8 
February 2021 to book a discussion with an adviser, which took place on 11 February 2021. 
Following this call, an abridged advice report was sent to him on 17 February 2021. It 
recommended that he didnt transfer his pension. It also confirmed the transfer value was 
guaranteed until 16 March 2021 and if the transfer wasnt requested in that time, the value 
would need to be recalculated and he could be charged.
On 5 March 2021 Mr C called HRCL to confirm hed changed his mind about how he wanted 
to take his benefits. He now wanted to take his full tax-free cash (TFC) allowance and the 
remaining 75% as a taxable lump sum. As a result, a new abridged advice report had to be 
drawn up.
Mr C called for an update on 23 March 2021. HRCL told him the information was with his 
adviser to make a recommendation. He called again on 6 April 2021 and was told the 
abridged advice letter would be sent soon. The new report was sent on 12 April 2021. 
HRCL called Mr C on 19 April 2021 to confirm if hed received the new report and to ask how 
he wanted to proceed. He returned the report declaration on 21 April 2021 and HRCL 
received this on 27 April 2021. It then sent him a recommendation not to proceed letter on 
10 May 2021. It received completed forms from Mr C on 7 June 2021 confirming he wanted 
to proceed with full advice for which there would be a fee.
A suitability report was produced for Mr C on 15 June 2021. He requested assistance from 
HRCL to complete the paperwork on 23 June 2021. The completed forms were received by 
it on 8 July 2021 and were sent to his chosen personal pension plan provider the same day. 
As the transfer value had expired in March 2021, HRCL says it chased Mercer for the 
recalculation details on 13 July 2021. Mercer confirmed on 28 July 2021 that no fee would 
be required because Mr C was entitled to one free quote each year. However, HRCL 
incorrectly sent a recalculation declaration form to Mr C causing confusion and more delay.
HRCL chased Mercer for the recalculated transfer value of Mr Cs DB pension on 26 August 
2021. This was then received on 1 September 2021. It completed the transfer value analysis 
the same day. The revised value was guaranteed up until 23 November 2021. But the 
updated paperwork wasnt sent to Mr C until 10 September 2021.
Mr C called HRCL on 17 September 2021 to request help to fill in the transfer forms. During 
this process he was incorrectly told he didnt have to sign and date the checklist form. This 
meant when the forms were reviewed, they had to be returned to be fully completed. The 
forms were sent back to Mr C on 29 September 2021. The amended forms were received by 
HRCL on 26 October 2021. 
HRCL didnt send the completed transfer forms to Mr Cs chosen personal pension provider 
until 15 November 2021. On 26 November 2021 it received an email from Mercer saying it 
still hadnt received any transfer forms yet. And on 16 December 2021 it told HRCL that as 
the transfer value quote had expired a further fee would be required to calculate this.
HRCL initially said that as the transfer forms were signed and sent within the guaranteed 
date it thought there shouldnt be another fee. But Mercer confirmed it hadnt received the 
paperwork until 9 December 2021. HRCL eventually agreed to cover the cost emailing 
Mercer to that effect on 18 February 2022. A declaration form was sent to Mr C the same 
day. It resent these on 7 March and it received the completed form from him on 14 March 
2022.
Mr C sought an update from HRCL on 16 March 2022. It told him it was waiting for an 
invoice from Mercer for the latest transfer value recalculation. This was received from Mercer 
on 19 March 2022. However, it wasnt processed until 7 April 2022.HRCL then chased Mercer by email on 12 April 2022. Mercer replied on 14 April 2022 
confirming it was processing the recalculation. It chased again on 20 April 2022. This was 
acknowledged by Mercer on 26 April 2022 and a further update was sent on 5 May 2022 in 
which it noted it was awaiting information from the scheme actuary. The information wasnt 
provided to HRCL until 20 May 2022.
Mr C called HRCL for an update on 23 May 2022 and was told it had now received the 
recalculated transfer value and was completing the necessary analysis. The new transfer 
value declaration and transfer forms were sent to Mr C on 27 May 2022. He returned these 
on 31 May 2022. However, hed written haha against one of the questions (through 
frustration at how long the process was taking), so they couldnt be used.
HRCL didnt contact Mr C about the problem with the forms until 16 June 2022, but couldnt 
get through to him. It tried again the next day without success. Mr C called it on 24 June 
2022, however, he wasnt told about amending the forms. HRCL tried to call him again on 28 
June 2022 and 4 July 2022 but there was no answer. Mr C called again on 5 July 2022 
asking why it had tried to call him, but the call handler didnt know and said it would call him 
back.
Mr C called HRCL again on 6 July 2022 and was told he would need to amend the 
declaration as it was a legal document. He agreed to do this. The transfer forms were then 
sent to his new pension provider on 13 July 2022. It had sent the forms to Mercer on 26 July 
2022 and were waiting for a response.
HRCL chased Mercer on 2 August 2022 for an update. It was then established the transfer 
authority form for his new pension provider had expired, so a new one was required. Mr C 
says he was never made aware this could expire.
Mercer emailed HRCL on 4 August 2022, copying Mr C in, saying it required ID documents 
as theyd been unable to verify him through their online service provider. It said they could 
accept copies of the driving license or passport, but the birth/marriage certificates must be 
originals or certified copies. Mr C called HRCL about this on 8 August 2022. He was also 
told a new transfer authority form for Aegon was required and this was sent to him.
Mr C says he spoke with Mercer on 9 August 2022 and was told they needed ID information 
to be sent to them by HRCL. So, he called the adviser firm to make it aware of this. HRCL 
emailed Mercer the same day to chase the transfer and to question the ID requirement, as 
their transfer pack said consumer identities would be verified electronically.
Mercer replied on 12 August 2022 saying electronic checks had failed on their end, so it 
needed original documents or certified copies. It hadnt said in its earlier email that it could 
accept electronic, uncertified, copies of either a driving license or passport.
There were various exchanges between the parties over the course of the next six weeks to 
make sure the proper forms were in place and that Mr Cs identification had been properly 
verified. During this period Mr C raised a complaint against HRCL, setting out his concerns 
about the process for transferring his pension which had taken over two years. He 
highlighted its poor service and a lack of professionalism.
Mercer finally made the pension transfer payment to Mr Cs new pension provider on 28 
September 2022. The new firm paid out his TFC on 4 October 2022. The balancing taxable 
lump sum was also paid a couple of days later.HRCL issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint on 19 October 2022. It upheld his case 
and said it had caused approximately 15 and a half weeks of delays. However, it said Mercer 
had caused 18 weeks of delays and Mr C himself had caused 31 and a half weeks of delays.
It offered him £600 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
As Mr C wasnt satisfied with HRCLs response, he brought his case to our Service for an 
independent review.
An Investigator considered the evidence and upheld his complaint. He noted that both 
Mercer and his own actions had a significant impact on the timetable for transferring his 
pension. But he also found that rather than being responsible for just over 15 weeks of delay 
that it accepted responsibility for, HRCLs acts and omissions had caused over 23 weeks of 
delay.
Based on these findings, he thought Mr Cs pension transfer wouldve happened on 8 April 
2022, but for HRCLs failings. He recommended it contact Mercer to understand what the 
transfer value wouldve been at this time, and if it had been higher than the value used in the 
transfer, it should make good the difference, and that it should add interest of 8% simple to 
these awards until October 2022.
Mr C had also asserted in his testimony that had he had access to his funds earlier hed 
have paid off his mortgage and saved on the monthly repayments. The Investigator thought 
if he could provide appropriate evidence about this HRCL should meet the interest payments 
between when he shouldve received his pension funds until he did.
The Investigator considered that the amount HRCL had offered Mr C for the distress and 
inconvenience its failings had caused him was reasonable.
Mr C was broadly content with the Investigators findings and conclusions. However he 
thought HRCL should be required to refund the fees it charged him. He also wanted his 
complaint to cover the issues caused by Mercer.
HRCL didnt respond to the Investigators view.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators recommendations, Mr Cs complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. This 
time Mr C asked for the timeline of events to be reconsidered. He reiterated his view that 
HRCL should refund some of the fees he paid. And he sought clarification about the redress 
Id proposed. Ill cover these matters in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. But Ive arrived at a slightly different position on redress than 
the Investigator did. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by HRCL for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains twelve Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 2.1.1 R in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
There is broad agreement between the parties about important failings in this case, namely 
the delays Mr C experienced in transferring his DB pension funds to a new personal 
pension. A journey that was initiated with HRCL in September 2020, but which didnt come 
to fruition until October 2022.
The Investigator thought all parties involved in this complaint including HRCL, Mercer and Mr 
C had a case to answer in terms of the delays he experienced. But in terms of making 
findings and drawing conclusions he was necessarily restricted to focussing on the role of 
the complainant and the respondent.
Drawing on HRCLs stated service level standards and an analysis of the timeline of events, 
considering evidence provided by all parties, the Investigator concluded that HRCL was 
responsible for 118 working days of delay. Taking this in isolation would mean that had it 
provided the service it shouldve done, then the notional date for the transfer of Mr Cs 
pension wouldve been 8 April 2022.
Reconstructing a timeline from sometimes conflicting information and somewhat after the 
events isnt a scientific endeavour. In responding to my provisional decision, Mr C said:
I think perhaps that HRCL are liable for more delays than are attributed to them. In 
particular for the period 14/7/21 to 20/5/22.
I understand Mr Cs argument. Ive reviewed the very detailed timeline of events constructed 
in the Investigators view. Mr C hasnt identified any specific weaknesses in the rationale set 
out there, be that events arising or timescales ascribed to these. Having reviewed the file, I 
remain of the opinion the assessment of HRCL being responsible for 118 working delays is 
reasonable, given all the caveats Ive already set out.
Mr C did think that his complaint should be dealt with in the round, so taking into account 
Mercers role in what happened to him over the period of his pension transfer. I can 
understand why hed like that to happen, it would certainly make things more straightforward. 
However, I can only deal with his complaint in front of me about HRCL.
I havent made any findings or conclusions against Mercer, the administrator the DB pension 
scheme he was a member of. That wouldnt be fair or appropriate. If Mr C chooses to raise a complaint against Mercer then in the first instance he will need to engage with it directly. And 
if he isnt satisfied with the outcome, he can take his case to the Pension Ombudsman.
Mr C also thought HRCL should be required to refund the fees it charged him. Its an 
argument he reiterated in his response to my provisional decision. Again I understand his 
view, given the poor service he experienced on too many occasions. But it is the case HRCL 
provided him with a service that enabled him to achieve his objective. 
The point here is the redress Ive provided for already returns Mr C to the position hed have 
been in now, or as close to that as reasonably possible, had it not been for HRCLs failings. 
And in addition to the assessment of financial detriment to be put right, it also considers the 
trouble and upset he experienced.
Putting things right
The first calculation Harbour Rock Capital Limited should undertake concerns the transfer 
value Mr C received for his DB pension. It should contact Mercer to establish what the value 
wouldve been had the transaction been completed by 8 April 2022. If this is more than Mr C 
ended up receiving, then the loss should be made up. And this calculation should assume 
hed have taken the benefits in the same way he did in October 2022, so allowing for any 
TFC entitlement, with the balance taken as a taxable lump sum.
If further payment is due to Mr C, then Harbour Rock Capital Limited should apply 8% simple 
annual interest on the total, from when he shouldve received the payment until it settles.
If the transfer value that Mr C wouldve received in April 2022 wouldve been lower than that 
he received in October 2022, then no additional payment is due to him in this regard. And 
Harbour Rock Capital Limited may offset any notional over-payment against the second 
calculation I require it to undertake.
The second calculation Harbour Rock Capital Limited should conduct concerns the loss of 
use that Mr C suffered as a result in the delay of the payment of his pension funds between 
8 April 2022 and when they were paid in October 2022. I can confirm Mr Cs understanding 
of the approach to this part of the loss calculation  but bearing in mind the provision Ive 
made with regard to the first calculation. 
The requirement here is for HRCL to add 8% interest to the sums Mr C initially received, for 
the relevant period. Any redress related to the value of the transfer value is catered for by 
the first calculation.
The sum of these two calculations is the gross redress Harbour Rock Capital Limited is 
responsible for in respect of the financial detriment caused to Mr C by its failings. If this 
shows a loss to him, HRCL will need to make this good. 
Income tax is due on this amount and he should provide the firm with information about his 
tax status at the time in order for it to be able to make an appropriate adjustment. If Mr C 
feels hes been overtaxed, he can approach HM Revenue & Customs with his details to 
enquire about any refund due.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Cs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Harbour Rock Capital Limited has offered to pay Mr C £600 for its failings and the distress 
and inconvenience this caused him. Given the circumstances of the case and the role played 
by other parties in what happened to him, I think this is fair. If it hasnt already done so, 
HRCL should honour this payment to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and require Harbour 
Rock Capital Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman