DRN-2349201
The complaint
Mr M complains that the debit card linked to his Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money) account stopped working. Mr M also complains that Virgin Money sent replacement 
debit cards that werent received. Mr M says Virgin Money cancelled a debit card despite 
being asked not to. Mr M says the service provided was poor and Virgin Money gave him 
incorrect information. 
What happened  
Mr M complains that on 2 January 2020 his debit card stopped working as it had expired so 
he had to use a credit card to pay for a taxi. Mr M says he was told by Virgin Money that a 
replacement had already been sent but wasnt received. Virgin Money says it arranged for 
another to be posted. 
On 3 March 2020 Mr M tried to use his debit card but it was declined. Mr M says he 
contacted Virgin Money and was told a new card would be sent to him but the existing card 
wouldnt be cancelled. But when Mr M tried to use his debit card in a cash machine it didnt 
work and he later found out it had been cancelled. 
Mr M spoke with a complaint handler who told him to withdraw cash from his credit card and 
that doing so wouldnt impact his credit score. But Mr M has told us he didnt follow the 
advice. A replacement debit card was sent to Mr M but he was away at the time. Mr M has 
explained that he needed access to his debit card whilst he was away.
 
Virgin Money responded to Mr Ms complaint on 10 June 2020 and upheld it. Virgin Money 
said it wasnt able to say why Mr Ms debit card stopped working and there were no records 
of declined transactions or problems with his account. Virgin Money said it had sent 
replacements to Mr Ms address. Virgin Money upheld the issues Mr M raised concerning 
advice provided about using his credit card to withdraw cash and the service he received. It 
also agreed it had taken too long to respond to Mr Ms complaint. Virgin Money offered Mr M 
£150 and apologised. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Virgin Money had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M didnt agree the offer was fair and didnt accept. As Mr M didnt agree with the 
investigator, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says Virgin Money failed to explain why his debit card stopped working. Virgin Money, 
in turn, says theres nothing showing on its systems that indicates it blocked or cancelled the 
debit card in question. Virgin Money also explained there were no declined or attempted 
transactions around the time Mr M experienced problems and suggested there may have 
been an issue with the physical card. I think thats a reasonable explanation. If Virgin Money 
had received a payment request and declined it Id have expected there to be a record of the 
attempted transaction on its payment systems  but there isnt one. 
Whilst I understand the debit card stopped working, its possible that something outside of 
Virgin Moneys control happened to cause that. 
I cant force a business to provide an explanation where is says there is none. I know Mr M 
wants Virgin Money to explain why his debit card stopped working, but it has been unable to 
explain what happened. Having reviewed the available information, I havent seen anything 
that indicates a problem with Virgin Money led to the debit card not working. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Virgin Money has provided all the information it has available.  
Mr Ms replacement cards werent received and he is concerned that private information has 
been disclosed. In response to our investigator, Mr M said Virgin Money should be 
responsible for the actions of any third parties it appoints to carry out activities, like sending 
replacement cards. I agree with Mr M that Virgin Money is responsible for how his 
replacement cards were sent. However, Virgin Money has confirmed two debit cards were 
sent by its agents to Mr M. The debit cards were posted to the address Virgin Money has on 
file and I can see the details match our records. 
I dont doubt what Mr M has said about not receiving replacements. But Im satisfied that 
Virgin Money did arrange for replacement cards to be sent as it claims.  
I can see Mr M is concerned about other people having access to the debit cards he failed to 
receive. There is no information to show the debit cards in question have been used for 
fraudulent purposes to date. But, if Mr M is the victim of fraud in relation to his Virgin Money 
account in the future, he should contact the business and ask it to investigate. 
Mr M has told us his calls and questions were handled poorly by Virgin Money. Ive listened 
to all the available calls and I felt the people Mr M spoke with remained courteous. But I 
understand Virgin Money hasnt been able to trace all the calls Mr M made and I can see it 
has upheld this part of his complaint. Virgin Money has apologised about some of the 
information provided during Mr Ms calls.
I agree that the service provided to Mr M should have been better and that the cancellation 
of a debit card caused him inconvenience. 
Mr M has explained he needed access to funds during the period in question as he was 
going away. I note a call handler gave Mr M some alternative options, including transferring 
money to a friend, to try and make sure he had funds available. During the call, Mr M 
confirmed that was an option, although he felt his debit card should have been working. And 
I agree transferring funds to a friend would have caused some inconvenience.  
I agree there are grounds to award compensation, but Im not persuaded that £750 is a fair 
reflection of the impact caused by the issues raised. I accept there was some inconvenience 
to Mr M by not having an active debit card, but Virgin Money provided workable alternative 
options to access funds while away. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M says Virgin Money should pay him £250 for incorrectly telling him to use his credit card 
as an alternative to get cash. Mr M has told us he didnt follow the advice he was given. I 
cant fine or punish a business for making a mistake. But Ive taken the advice Mr M was 
given into account when considering the overall award. 
Virgin Money has offered Mr M £150 to settle his complaint. Ive considered all the 
information sent to us by both Mr M and Virgin Money when reaching my decision. Ive paid close attention to everything that Mr M has told us about the impact of the issues raised on 
him. Whilst I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I havent been 
persuaded to increase the award beyond the £150 Virgin Money has offered. In my view, 
that figure fairly takes into account the impact of the issues raised on Mr M. As Virgin Money 
has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling 
it to take any further action. 
If Mr M wishes to accept Virgin Moneys offer, he has the option of contacting the business 
directly or asking our investigator to contact it on his behalf. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman