DRN-2683652
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Elmco Limited gave them incorrect advice about their mortgage 
application, causing them to incur an early repayment charge (ERC) by their existing lender 
in order to complete their house move.
To resolve their complaint they want Elmco to pay them the amount of the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say that in November 2014 they bought a house with a mortgage loan from 
Lender S. There was a five-year fixed-interest product carrying an ERC. At that time Mr B 
was employed, but on 1 September 2017 he became self-employed.
In June 2019 they decided to sell that house and move to a larger one which was under 
construction. They consulted mortgage adviser Elmco. They told it that Mr B had been self-
employed since August 2017. They marketed and sold their house. They aimed to move, but 
to remain with Lender S as they would otherwise have to pay a large ERC if their mortgage 
were redeemed before December 2019. 
They say that Elmco assured them this could be achieved as Mr B would satisfy Lender Ss 
criterion of two years trading by the time they needed to exchange contracts on the new 
house. They sold on 23 September 2019 and moved into rented accommodation. They paid 
Lender Ss ERC as they were assured by Elmco that they would be able to reclaim it if their 
new mortgage were with Lender S and were completed within six months.
 
However Lender S declined their application. Elmco said this was because Mr B actually 
needed to have had two full tax years of trading with accounts, not just to have been self-
employed for two years. This was impossible in the timescale required for the new house so 
Mr and Mrs B took an alternative mortgage with Lender H whose criterion was one year only. 
So they lost the ability to reclaim the ERC.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Elmco. It responded on 13 November 2019 but didnt uphold 
their complaint. Mr and Mrs B werent happy and brought their complaint to our service, but 
our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He said Elmco did ask about employment 
status and was told Mr B had been self-employed for several years. 
The investigator said Lender Ss requirements did seem to be for two years tax returns, but 
Mr and Mrs B were also told at the time that timescales would be tight for a new Lender S 
mortgage, according to Elmco. Elmco had also said it was told at the time that although 
Mr and Mrs B wanted to reclaim the ERC if possible, this wasnt a deal breaker for them.
For the complaint to succeed Mr and Mrs B needed to show they wouldnt have agreed to 
sell their original property unless they could port the Lender S mortgage. However, they had 
applied for a Lender H mortgage at the time which was a clear indication that they realised 
porting might not be possible but still carried on with the sale of their property.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this and asked for the matter to be reviewed. They said 
theyd been advised incorrectly. They said the reason for taking a Lender H decision in 
principle (DIP) was that Elmco had said they werent eligible for the Lender S mortgage at 
that time but would be in a few months when they came to reserve the new property.
They sold the old property and rented, and were then in a position to reserve the new house. 
By Elmcos timescales they were then eligible for a Lender S mortgage as Mr B had then 
been self-employed for two years. So Elmco went ahead and applied.
Elmco then told them Lender S had refused because it required two years accounts not just 
two years trading. So they had to proceed with the Lender H mortgage and couldnt reclaim 
the ERC. It wasnt relevant to say this wasnt a deal breaker. If they had known from the 
start, it would have been. But theyd already moved the family out and were left with no 
option.
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator. So I decided to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Lender S has provided a copy of its refusal dated 23 September 2019 which says:
We've declined the application because the length of time an applicant has been self-
employed is less than 2 years so doesnt meet our residential lending policy.
Additional Information
The limited firm was incorporated 14/02/2018 therefore unable to provide full 2 years self-
employment figures.
Lender Ss mortgage lending criteria are set out in its website for use by mortgage 
intermediaries. This says that it wont accept applications from customers who have been 
self-employed or owned their business for less than two years. 
But there is an additional requirement in cases of self-employment, namely Self-Assessment 
Tax Calculation forms (e.g. SA302) plus Tax Year Overview (TYO) covering 24 trading 
months. So Lender S required both two years self-employment and two years self-
employed trading figures.
Elmco in its final response letter of 10 January 2020 expressly accepted Mr Bs assertion 
that hed confirmed hed been self-employed since August 2017. Elmco confirmed the aim 
was to keep Mr and Mrs B with Lender S, as by the time the new house was ready Mr B 
would have completed a sufficient period of continuous self-employment. In other words, at 
that time Mr B didnt fit the Lender S two year-trading requirements. However he would do so 
by the time an application was made.
Mr Bs self-employment having started on 1 September 2017, Lender S was wrong to say on 
23 September 2019 that he hadnt been self-employed for two years. He had been, and 
Elmco could have challenged Lender Ss decision. But the problem was that Lender Ss 
requirements went further than that. It required two years self-employment trading figures, 
and there was never any possibility of those being available by the time an application would 
be made.For these reasons I consider that Mr and Mrs B were wrongly advised. Elmco should have 
known, and should have told them in June 2019, that an application to Lender S was likely to 
fail. The question then is what would Mr and Mrs B have done if Elmco had told them? They 
say: 
Had we been aware that a Lender S mortgage was not going to be possible, we might not 
have accepted the offer on our house and waited for a few more months until the redemption 
period was over. I would have thought this should have been made clear to us at that time, 
rather than letting us think a Lender S mortgage would be possible and also allowing us to 
put in a Lender S application on the 16/09/2019 knowing it would be rejected?
The ERC would have expired in November 2019 so it would only have been necessary to 
defer selling the old house for a reasonably short period. Had it been, say, a year or so then 
Mr and Mrs B might well have decided to pay the ERC. But in the circumstances as they 
were, Im not persuaded that I should fairly conclude that they would have gone ahead 
anyway.  
I dont think the DIP with Lender H changes this. Elmco says the purpose of the DIP was to 
make sure the purchase would be achievable. But it doesnt follow from this that 
Mr and Mrs B would have proceeded even if theyd been advised in June that it was 
unachievable.
For these reasons my provisional view is that this complaint should be upheld and that 
Elmco should pay to Mr and Mrs B the amount of the ERC they paid with interest. I 
understand the ERC was £6,200 but Id be grateful if Mr and Mrs B can provide written 
evidence of this.
The responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs B sent confirmation from lender S that the ERC paid on redemption was 
£6,920.23.
Elmco made several points, which it helpfully summarised as follows:
1. Mr and Mrs B had told Elmco that Mr B had been self-employed from 2017, but the 
status changes should have been disclosed.
2. Elmco had obtained proof of income and based on this it had advised Mr and Mrs B at 
the outset that Lender S was not an option and had obtained a DIP from Lender H.
3. Mr and Mrs B put their existing house on the market and agreed a sale subject to 
contract without discussion with Elmco. Elmco could have assisted with important dates 
and timescales they should work towards.
4. Elmco had applied to Lender S and the application had been declined. Mr and Mrs B had 
not moved out or exchanged contracts so the sale could have been halted at this point.
5. To proceed with a new build purchase Mr and Mrs B needed to have agreed a sale 
subject to contract. They didnt need to have completed. There was no requirement for 
their sale to have been completed before the end of September.6. Elmco had offered the Lender H DIP as a solution to enable Mr and Mrs B to proceed 
with the purchase. Mr and Mrs B had accepted this option and had instructed Elmco to 
proceed knowing they would have to pay the ERC to Lender S.
7. Mr and Mrs B had had every opportunity to pull out without incurring any cost, or to 
explore delaying their sale, however they had decided to proceed accepting they would 
incur the ERC.
8. Because of the dates of the transactions, even if Mr and Mrs B had satisfied Lender Ss 
income criteria, they still wouldnt have recovered the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the numbering above my views are:
1. Elmco says that in the initial discussions in June 2019, Mr and Mrs B said Mr B had been 
a director of a limited company for 18 months which meant that he would have been self-
employed for the two years required by Lender S at the estimated time of application. 
However, Mr B had commenced self-employment in September 2017 but had changed 
to the limited company directorship in February 2018. Therefore, the initial information 
from Mr and Mrs B had been incorrect although it still fitted Lender Ss criterion of having 
been self-employed for two years at the time of application.
By status changes Elmco means the change to a limited company. However I dont 
think this affects the issue. Lender Ss criteria applied equally to those applicants who 
were self-employed and those who owned their business. Incorporation or not, the two 
years self-employment would end on 30 August 2019 so it would always have been 
impossible to produce two years trading accounts by the time the application fell to be 
made
2. I think its common ground that Lender S wasnt an option at the outset as Mr Bs self-
employment hadnt lasted for two years. The point is that by the time of the application, 
Mr and Mrs B would have met Lender Ss criterion as he would have been self-employed 
for two years. The problem was the additional requirement for self-employed tax 
calculations and overviews. 
3. This wasnt the cause of the problem. As far as Mr and Mrs B were aware, Mr B needed 
only to have been self-employed for two years by the time of the application, and he had 
been. There was no apparent need for different dates or timescales.
4. In their complaint to Elmco Mr and Mrs B said they had sold and moved into rented 
accommodation on 23 September 2019, and that Lender Ss refusal was communicated 
to them on 27 September. Elmco didnt dispute those dates in its response.
5. The point here is that Mr and Mrs B had already completed their sale based on their 
understanding, from what Elmco had told them, that they had met Lender Ss criterion 
and would be able to port the mortgage.
6.  Yes. As Lender S refused the application, porting was impossible. The DIP was a device 
to allow Mr and Mrs B to go ahead with the purchase pending being able to go ahead 
with Lender S once the two years self-employment had been achieved. The instruction to 
go ahead with Lender H was after Lender S had declined the application.7. Im not sure whether Elmco is here referring to pulling out of the sale or pulling out of the 
purchase financed by Lender H. But it was already too late to pull out of the sale and I 
cant see that delaying completion of the purchase would have achieved anything. The 
only way to avoid the ERC was to remain with Lender S, but it refused their application. 
8. Elmcos point here is that by selling their existing house Mr and Mrs B were ruling out 
being able to comply with Lender Ss porting criteria as they completed on the new 
purchase more than six months after the redemption of their existing mortgage. They 
sold on 23 September 2019 and purchased on 23 April 2020, seven months later. 
Therefore, even if they had satisfied Lender Ss lending criteria, they still would not have 
been refunded their ERC.
But I think the answer to this is that if Mr and Mrs B had satisfied Lender Ss lending 
criteria, they would have been able to proceed sooner than they did because on 
23 September 2019 theyd have been accepted not declined. And theyd have known 
they needed to complete within six months. 
Elmco raises an additional point that Mr and Mrs B state Elmco assured them this could 
be achieved as Mr B would satisfy Lender Ss criterion of two years trading by the time 
they needed to exchange contracts on the new house. Elmco would always state that 
the criterion of two years trading would need to be satisfied at the time of application, not 
exchange. However as it was so satisfied, I dont think this affects the position. 
Putting things right
For these reasons Im not minded to depart from my provisional view that this complaint 
should be upheld and that Elmco should pay to Mr and Mrs B the amount of the ERC they 
incurred with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Elmco Limited to pay £6920.23 to 
Mr and Mrs B.
It should also pay simple interest at an annual rate of 8% from the date Mr and Mrs B paid
the ERC to Lender S to the date of payment. If it considers it should deduct income tax from
the interest it should give Mr and Mrs B the necessary certificate to allow them to reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman