DRN-4099200
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc blocked and closed his account without 
providing an explanation or warning. Mr S says this caused him unnecessary inconvenience, 
missed direct debit payments, and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr S had an account with RBS.
In May 2022, RBS decided to review how Mr S was operating his account. Whilst it 
conducted its review the bank blocked Mr Ss access to his account, this meant Mr S 
couldnt access the funds in the account or his online banking.
Mr S discovered that his account was blocked when he tried to view his account online, and 
his bank card stopped working when he tried to use a cash machine. Hes explained that he 
went into a branch to try and find out what was happening with his account. He said when he 
did, the staff were unhelpful and would only tell him to expect a letter from the bank within a 
few days. Mr S made further trips to branch to try and find out what was happening and gain 
access to the money in his account. But each time he visited he was told to expect a letter 
and that his account would return to normal within a couple of days.
Mr Ss account was blocked between 26 May 2022 and 10 June 2022. At the time the 
balance of his account was around £1,300 and direct debits were due to leave his account to 
pay utility bills. Due to the block Mr Ss direct debits werent paid. Following its review, RBS 
decided to close Mr Ss account. The bank wrote to Mr S in June 2022 giving him two 
months notice that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr S complained to RBS about the block and closure of his account. Mr S said he was very 
upset and frustrated by RBS blocking and closing his account. He also explained that his 
credit file had been impacted due to missing his direct debits because RBS blocked his 
account and that he had to spend time setting up a new account with another bank and 
contacting his utility companies to sort things out.
In response, RBS apologised for causing Mr S any inconvenience, but it said it hadnt done 
anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ss account. And it had done so in line with 
the account terms and its regulatory obligations. Mr S wasnt happy with this response, so he 
brought his complaint to our service where an investigator considered it. 
The investigator asked RBS to provide more information about why it had blocked and 
closed Mr Ss account. But RBS said it couldnt provide anything more than it had already 
provided to us. RBS also said that it was entitled to block and close Mr Ss account and had 
written to Mr S to let him know that his direct debits wouldnt be able to be paid from his 
account due to his account being blocked. 
The investigator also asked Mr S for more information about his circumstances at the time 
his account was blocked and the impact of the banks actions on him. Mr S said he spent 
time sorting out payments with his utility companies and had to spend his lunch hour 
opening a new bank account. He didnt provide anything further regarding his credit file. 
The investigator said that based on the limited information the bank had provided, she 
couldnt say the bank had treated Mr S fairly when it had blocked and closed his account. 
So, she said RBS should pay Mr S £200 compensation together with 8% interest on the 
balance of his account for loss of use of funds whilst his account was blocked. RBS 
disagreed and said it was entitled to block and close Mr Ss account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or 
the activity on an account. The terms of Mr Ss account also permit RBS to block an account. 
This means RBS is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Banks are also entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as this is 
done fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping with the terms and 
conditions. In this instance the terms of Mr Ss account say that in certain instances RBS can 
close the account with immediate notice and by providing 60 days notice.  The terms also 
state that RBS doesnt have to provide a reason for doing so. RBS wrote to Mr S in June 
2022, giving him two months notice that it was closing his account and that hed need to 
make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr S wants RBS to explain the reason it applied the block to his account and then closed it.
I can understand why Mr S wants the bank to give him a proper explanation, it cant be 
pleasant being told you are no longer wanted as a customer. But RBS doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mr S the 
reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like to know. Its also under 
no obligation to provide Mr S with the reasons it no longer wants him as a customer. So, I 
cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so. 
However, RBS needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a 
complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, RBS has failed to provide information 
about why it blocked Mr Ss account and the reasons why it no longer wanted him as a 
customer. Ive considered what RBS has said about why it wont provide further information 
to our service about the reasons it blocked and closed Mr Ss account. This service has the 
power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im 
not persuaded the reasons given by RBS exclude it from complying with these rules. So, in 
this particular case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied that RBS has 
treated Mr S fairly when it blocked and closed his account. Taking this into account, I agree 
with the investigator that RBS should pay Mr S compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by blocking and closing his account.
Mr S has explained that when he discovered his account was blocked, he visited a branch to 
try and find out was happening. He says that when he did staff wouldnt give him much 
information and simply told him to expect a letter that would explain things. And that hed be able to use his account within a few days. But Mr Ss account remained blocked for around 
two weeks. So, he had to revisit a branch. But each time he was given the same 
explanation, until his account was unlocked on 10 June 2022. 
Having considered what Mr S has told us about how the block and closure of his account 
impacted him Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. He wasnt able to 
access the money in his account for just over two weeks and had to arrange to pay his direct 
debits over the phone. He also had to go to the trouble of visiting a bank branch on more 
than one occasion when his account remained blocked for more than a few days. Having 
considered the impact on Mr S and taking into consideration the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that the block and closure of his account has caused Mr S some trouble and upset. 
Therefore, I think he should receive compensation for this. Im satisfied that £200 
compensation recommended by the investigator is a fair amount of compensation and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr S was caused. I also think RBS should pay Mr S 
8% simple interest on the sum of his account for loss of use of his funds during the time his 
account was blocked.
Finally, Mr S has said his credit file has been negatively impacted because his direct debits 
went unpaid due to the block on his account. Whilst I accept what Mr S says and understand 
his concerns, I havent seen any evidence that RBSs actions impacted his credit file, led to 
Mr S suffering any financial loss or meant he couldnt apply for another account. So, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award compensation for something there is no evidence 
of. In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that Mr S had to go to the trouble of sorting 
out his direct debits manually, but Im satisfied that the compensation recommended 
compensates Mr S for this. So, I havent found grounds to increase the level of 
compensation. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to put things right by doing the following: 
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank closing 
and blocking his account
Pay Mr S 8% simple interest on the sum of his account from 26 May 2022 until 10 
June 2022
HM Revenue & Customs requires The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr S asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman