DRN-2189894
The complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a baggage claim she made on 
her travel insurance policy.
Mrs Ps represented by her husband, Mr M.
What happened
Mrs P has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account.
In June 2019, Mrs P, Mr M and their child flew abroad. Two of their bags werent placed on 
their flight, so when they arrived at their destination, their bags werent there. Mrs P and Mr 
M obtained a property irregularity report from their airline.
Mrs P and Mr M later made a claim to AXA under the baggage and baggage delay section of 
their policy. Mr M told AXA that hed made several calls to the airport to try and trace the 
baggage. Hed gone to the airport around four days later to see if the bags had turned up 
and had found them damaged. He told AXA hed been forced to sign a document at the 
airport which said the bags were intact and nothing had been stolen, while surrounded by 
security guards. 
But thousands of pounds worth of things had been stolen from the bags. Mr M said hed 
reported the damage and loss to the airline. He told AXA the hotel staff had been very 
helpful and they hadnt needed to buy any replacement items because the airline had 
supplied them with clothes.
AXA looked into the claim. As part of its investigations, it got in touch with Mrs P and Mr Ms 
airline. The airline told AXA the bags had been flown out the day after Mrs P and Mr Ms 
flight and had been delivered to their hotel. It didnt suggest itd been made aware of any 
damage to the bags or that any items had been stolen from them. AXA asked Mr M for an 
explanation. Itd got in touch with the hotel, which said none of the staff remembered helping 
Mrs P and Mr M after their baggage had been stolen. And AXA asked them for photos which 
showed the damage theyd said had been caused to one of the bags. 
As AXA wasnt happy with the sequence of events Mr M had presented, it turned down the 
claim. It said it thought Mrs P and Mr M had misrepresented their claim  which it said was a 
breach of the policy terms and conditions. Mrs P and Mr M werent happy with AXAs 
decision, so they asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr M 
had given AXA a different version of events to the timeline of events hed given us. Mr M had 
told us hed got a call to say the bags had arrived the day after he arrived abroad and he 
decided to go and collect them.
The investigator noted Mr M had told AXA hed seen that the bags had been opened and 
damaged while he was at the airport. But the investigator said Mr M told him that hed left the 
keys to the luggage back at the hotel, so he couldnt open the bags until hed got them back. 
So overall, he felt Mrs P and Mr M had provided an inconsistent version of events. And he 
felt it was fair for AXA to turn down their claim.
Mr M disagreed. He provided photos of tops he said the hotel had provided the family with 
while they were without their bags. He also provided a social media message from the hotel 
with its number on, so AXA could get in touch with the customer services manager. And he 
said AXA had got its dates wrong when it recorded information about the claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mrs Ps claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules and guidance says that insurers must handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about the terms 
of Mrs Ps policy and whether I think AXA has applied them fairly.
When Mr M and Mrs P made this claim, the burden of proof was on them to show that it was 
valid. So its their responsibility to ensure that they provide enough evidence to do so. 
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mrs Ps policy. It provides cover of up to £2500 for lost, 
stolen or damaged baggage and valuables. It also provides cover of up to £250 for 
replacement items a policyholder has to buy if their carrier confirms that their baggage has 
been delayed by more than 12 hours.
Theres no dispute that Mrs P and Mr Ms baggage was delayed. Ive seen a copy of the 
property irregularity report they were given at the airport, which confirms two bags were 
missing. Their airline also confirmed to AXA that the bags werent returned until the following 
day, which suggests the bags were delayed by more than 12 hours. However, Mr M told 
AXA they hadnt needed to buy any replacement items because they had spare baby 
supplies in another bag and the hotel had supplied them with clothes. So it doesnt seem 
AXA needs to pay anything under this section of the policy.
Mrs P and Mr M have claimed for over £5000 worth of items they say were damaged or 
stolen from their bags. I can see theyve provided AXA with some receipts and evidence of 
cash withdrawals as proof of ownership of some of the things theyve claimed for. But I 
havent seen any photos of the items they say were damaged, despite AXA requesting them. 
Given AXAs concerns about the claim, I think it was reasonable for it to ask for more 
information which would support Mrs P and Mr Ms version of events. And I think in the 
circumstances, it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs P and Mr M to forward any photos they 
had which showed their bags had been damaged.
AXA has real concerns about the circumstances Mr M has presented. Ive looked carefully at 
the notes from the time of the claim and during follow-up conversations between Mr M and 
some of AXAs staff. Mr M told AXA that hed gone to the airport about three days after hed 
arrived abroad after he kept calling up and being told the bags hadnt arrived. The notes 
suggest he told AXA the bags were in a baggage room; there were many items missing; the 
bags were damaged and there was baby food everywhere. And he told AXA thered been 
three guards with him whod forced him to sign a document which said the bags were fine.Based on this information, AXA got in touch with the airline. I think this was a reasonable 
response. Thats because the policy says that if baggage is lost, stolen or damaged while in 
the carriers custody, a policyholder must report the loss to it and get written confirmation 
from the airline of it. I also think it was reasonable for AXA to check when Mrs P and Mr Ms 
bags arrived in the country they were staying in.
Ive seen a copy of an email from the airline which says that Mrs P and Mr Ms luggage was 
delivered to their hotel the day after their flight. Theres no suggestion that Mr M collected 
the bags from the airport; evidence of any document he signed there or that he reported any 
loss or damage to it.
Given the discrepancies between what Mr M told AXA had happened and the evidence the 
airline provided, I think it was reasonable for AXA to have real concerns about whether the 
claim had happened as Mr M had said it did. Ive also noted that Mr M has presented a 
slightly different version of events to us too. Thats because he told us hed been told to go to 
the airport to get the bags and that he didnt discover the loss until he got back to the hotel. 
So I can understand why AXA wasnt satisfied Mrs P and Mr M had shown they had a valid 
claim.
Mr M has provided evidence of a message he was sent by the hotel when he arrived. 
However, this was about a birthday package. So it doesnt add much else to support his 
position and theres no information in it which suggests that the hotel was helping Mrs P and 
Mr M to find their luggage.
Overall, I dont think Mrs P and Mr M have shown they have a valid claim on their policy. I 
simply havent seen enough to show, on balance, that their items were stolen and damaged. 
And given the difference between Mr Ms testimony and the airlines evidence, I think it was 
fair for AXA to have concerns about the claim. So Ive decided that it was fair for AXA to turn 
it down.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman