DRN-2006422
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc won't honour an agreement to continue to provide 
her with an interest-free overdraft. 
What happened
In 2013 Miss A opened a Student account with Santander. She graduated in 2017 and in 
September of that year her student account was converted to a 1 2 3 Graduate Current 
Account. One of the benefits of that account was that, like the Student account, it came with 
an interest-free overdraft.
In 2019 Santander converted Miss A's account again, this time to its Everyday account. That 
account didn't have the same benefits as the Student or the Graduate account; specifically, it 
didn't come with an interest-free overdraft. 
Miss A said that she'd been told that the Graduate account would be available for three 
years, not two, and that this was confirmed when she called in August 2019 to query what 
had happened. 
Santander accepted that it had provided incorrect information when Miss A had queried the 
position, but said that it had changed the terms of the Graduate account in June 2017; for 
accounts opened after that, the interest-free overdraft was available for two years, not three 
years as had previously been the case. It did however pay Miss E £50 in recognition of the 
inconvenience she had been put to.
Miss A referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He took 
the view however that Santander was only required to provide the Graduate account for two 
years and that the compensation it had paid was reasonable. Miss A didn't accept the 
investigator's opinion and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I've indicated, Miss A opened her student account in 2013, when the Graduate account 
was available for three years. I can therefore understand why she might have thought that 
was still the case when she opened her own Graduate account four year later. 
I'm satisfied however that Santander changed the terms for Graduate accounts opened on 
or after 26 June 2017. That change applied to Miss A's account, which was opened a few 
months later. It's important to note that the key date here is the date on which Miss A 
opened the Graduate account, not the date when she opened the Student account. That 
information was however clearly set out in the literature available to Miss A when she 
opened the Graduate account. I do accept however that Miss A was given misleading information when she asked about 
the end date for the account. That was no doubt frustrating, but, since the account had 
already been open for two years, it didn't affect Miss A's decision about whether or not to 
open it. In the circumstances, Santander's payment of £50 is in my view a fair resolution.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to do anything 
more to resolve Miss A's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman