DRN-3071715
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc. Hes unhappy with the 
delay and the service he experienced when he asked it to process a chargeback after his 
flights were cancelled.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr W purchased return flights using his TSB debit card. In June the airline 
cancelled the flights because of the pandemic but it would only offer a refund in the form of a 
credit voucher. It did say it could provide a refund but that it wouldnt be in a position to do 
this until the end of the pandemic. Mr W didnt want a voucher so he contacted TSB to see 
whether he could seek reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. He told us:
On 17 June 2020 he contacted TSB to see whether he could make a claim under the 
chargeback scheme in respect of the £349.96 hed paid for the two return flights 
which had now been cancelled;
on 23 June the bank told him hed need to attempt to resolve the dispute with the 
airline first before it would consider raising a chargeback. Mr W told TSB that hed 
already tried that, but it hadnt been successful, so he wanted to make a claim;
the bank then told him that it couldnt assist him any further because hed already 
declined the airlines offer of a credit voucher;
in the interim, the airline agreed to refund him in full and on 26 August the money 
was credited to his bank account;
the bank acknowledged the poor service hed received and credited his account with 
£10, but hes unhappy with this and says this level of compensation is inappropriate;
hes unhappy with TSB; it failed to follow the chargeback guidelines and it didnt raise 
the chargeback hed requested.
TSB rejected Mr Ws original complaint and said it had followed Visas guidelines and rules 
in relation to chargeback. It acknowledged it had caused Mr W some inconvenience and it 
credited his account with £10 in recognition of this. It also said it would be happy to review 
any other expenses Mr W had incurred as a result of difficulties hed experienced.
TSB told us that on 30 June, the airline changed its mind about only providing a credit 
voucher and agreed to provide a full refund. The bank says it advised Mr W of this that same 
day, and the full refund was credited to Mr Ws account in August 2020.
TSB told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all categories of 
dispute were very seriously delayed. It apologised for the inconvenience its customers 
experienced but said this had been outside its control; it had been dealing with a very high 
volume of disputes about cancelled flights and holidays and this had affected how quickly it 
could investigate these types of disputes.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he was only looking at whether TSB should have done more to help Mr W get 
his money back.
He explained the chargeback process and said it can often take some time for a chargeback 
claim to be successful  this is because banks needed to give suppliers time to investigate 
and say whether or not they agreed to the refund, and if not, provide evidence to support 
their position.
He said he didnt think the bank acted fairly by not raising a chargeback  he said TSB could 
have and should have raised a chargeback for Mr W when he asked it to help. But he went 
to on say that Mr W had confirmation from the airline that it would refund him shortly after he 
first approached TSB. And he had the full refund in his account around two months later, and 
he didnt think a chargeback wouldve resulted in Mr W getting his money any sooner. 
Because of this, he thought the £10 compensation paid by TSB was fair and in line with what 
he wouldve recommended.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr W says the airline didnt provide 
a refund in a timely manner and TSB refused to undertake the chargeback hed requested  
so hes out of pocket. And he says that although hes had a full refund from the airline, he 
shouldve had a quicker refund when he first raised the chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr W received from TSB. This is because although Mr W disputed a payment of 
£349.96, both parties have now confirmed that this was credited back to Mr Ws account in 
August 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for TSB to ask for a payment Mr W made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr W paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr W has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that he originally paid for  he bought some return flights and they were cancelled 
by the airline. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect TSB to 
raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within 
Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. However, these werent normal circumstances, and although TSB didnt help Mr W to obtain 
his refund in the way I wouldve expected, he didnt lose out. I say this because in spite of 
the challenges facing all parties at this particular difficult time, Mr W received confirmation of 
his refund from the airline just a few days after he first contacted TSB. And his account was 
credit in full eight weeks later. And I dont think hed have received it more quickly if TSB had 
done what it shouldve done.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr W. 
He booked and paid a for some flights, and from what hes told us, his experience with the 
airline initially when it would only offer a credit voucher wouldve understandably caused him 
some anxiety. But I cant hold TSB responsible for any of this because the initial problems 
were caused by the airline, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr W first contacted TSB, dealing with 
significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the global 
pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were relatively 
novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at a very 
unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive also noted that TSB has paid Mr W £10 in recognition of the poor service he received. 
And although I wouldve expected TSB to identify vulnerable customers who may need more 
immediate support and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mr W fell into this 
category.
My role isnt to punish businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator. My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and see if 
the business, in this case TSB, has done anything wrong. If it has, I seek to put the 
consumer  Mr W  back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. 
I dont think TSB helped Mr W obtain his refund, but I dont think he lost out because of this. 
So, for the reasons Ive given, I think the compensation TSB has already paid is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman