DRN-3214215
The complaint
 Mr M has complained that TSB Bank Plc increased the charges that would be applied to his 
overdraft facility without taking account of his financial circumstances.
What happened
 Mr M complained to TSB about changes to the charges applied to his overdraft facility. He 
has a large overdraft facility and the charges would almost double because of the changes 
that were being made, he said this would seriously affect his financial circumstances. TSB 
didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr M was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our 
service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that TSB should 
have considered more carefully how the change in charging structure would affect Mr M in 
his particular circumstances. Specifically, the fact that he had been permanently overdrawn 
with a large debit balance for an extended period of time and so not only would the increase 
in charges disproportionately affect him, but also it was evidence that he was unlikely to 
repay the large overdrawn balance of his account any time soon. So she recommended that 
TSB refund the interest and charges applied to Mr Ms account from April 2020 onwards.
TSB felt that it had acted fairly in how it notified Mr M of the changes and in the assistance it 
offered him, but nonetheless agreed to refund the charges as per the adjudicators 
recommendation as a gesture of goodwill. TSB did though note that it would then also be 
removing Mr Ms current agreed overdraft limit of £750. Mr M was unhappy with this, so as 
an agreement could not be reached the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges, and when considering whether a lender acted responsibly in providing 
further lending. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with the findings of our adjudicator 
that TSB should have identified that Mr M was struggling to repay his overdraft by April 
2020. However, I am satisfied that what TSB has now offered to do  refunding overdraft 
fees form 2 April 2020 onwards - is an appropriate resolution to this complaint, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels it is unfair for his overdraft limit to be removed once TSB has 
refunded the fees, but whether TSB is prepared to offer an overdraft facility is a commercial 
decision, and so not something that we can get involved in. Mr M can of course reapply for a 
new facility if he needs one in future, and TSB should consider any such application in line 
with its usual processes. 
I also note what Mr M has said about feeling worse off since he took out a loan to repay the 
overdraft, but I can see that the loan also included additional funds for other purposes, not 
just funds to repay the loan. And it was his choice to take out the loan, which he seems to 
have done with an awareness of the comparative cost of the loan and the cost of his 
overdraft.
Mr M has also mentioned concerns about the affordability of the overdraft when it was first 
agreed and the lack of assistance he says he received from TSB with his overdraft in the 
years prior to the period this complaint is about. This complaint specifically concerns the 
increase in overdraft charges and interest in early 2020, so Ive not considered anything that 
has happened before that time. And I cant see that any complaint about the affordability of 
the overdraft or the lack of help in previous years has been made to TSB so Mr M would 
need to contact TSB with those concerns in the first instance and give it the chance to 
respond.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr M, but Im satisfied that TSBs offer to repay the 
charges applied from April 2020, and its decision to then remove his current overdraft facility, 
is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 2 April 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. TSB Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman