DRN-1738755
 
Complaint
Mr A and Ms A say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
In 2010, Mr A and Ms A took out a PPI policy after applying for a mortgage. Mr A and Ms A 
paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their 
mortgage payments in case either or both of them lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A and Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr A and Ms As case. 
Having done that, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr A and Ms As mortgage application offered them the choice to take PPI or turn it down. At 
that point, they didnt choose PPI, and their application went ahead without it. Some months 
later, it looks like they spoke to Nationwide about PPI, and Nationwide sent Mr A and Ms A 
an illustration showing what PPI would cover and how much it would cost. It said the policy 
was optional and was not a condition of their mortgage. It looks like Mr A and Ms A then took 
out a policy, and were sent a welcome letter to thank them for choosing PPI. So I think that 
Nationwide made Mr A and Ms A aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr A and Ms A, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Nationwide if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr A and 
Ms A, Ive assumed it did. That means Nationwide had to check the policy was right for them 
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
it looks like Mr A and Ms A were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. And they dont seem to have had any other significant cover. Its 
worth bearing in mind that if Mr A and Ms A fell behind on their mortgage payments, they 
couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in 
protecting their home in case something went wrong.
The cost of the policy was set out, alongside what it would cover and what period it would 
pay out for. So I think Mr A and Ms A wouldve understood how much they would need to 
pay for the PPI and what the main benefit was.Lastly, it is possible that Nationwide didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But as I said above, Mr A and Ms A dont appear to have been affected by any of 
those things. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr A and Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman