DRN-4449609
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont refund her for 
transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between 29 July 2023 and 30 July 2023, Miss As debit card was used outside of the UK to 
make transactions totalling £3,000. The transactions were all made using her genuine card 
and PIN.
Miss A told Halifax that her card and PIN had been stolen while she was in the UK and that 
she didnt authorise the transactions. But Halifax refused to refund any of the money. It 
commented that it would expect a fraudster to withdraw as much as possible in a short time 
and it questioned why they would wait to travel outside the UK to commit fraud on her 
account.
It didnt accept Miss As explanation that she didnt know she could call Halifax as she had 
previously called in 2022. It also said it had educated her previously on keeping her account 
details safe as in 2019 and she provided access to someone to use her card and PIN.
Miss A wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said she was unhappy 
Halifax had rejected her fraud claim and with the way it had handled her complaint. She 
wanted it to reimburse the money she lost and to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.
Halifax has further commented that the transactions were card present transactions which 
were all verified using the correct pin which was stored in an unprotected mobile phone 
which was lost with the card.
It explained that of the transactions took place outside the UK and has questioned why, if the 
mobile phone and debit card were lost on 29 July 2023, the person waited until they were 
outside the UK to start using it.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained Halifax had 
provided technical evidence showing Miss As genuine card and PIN were used for the 
transactions and she was satisfied there was a point of compromise because her card was 
lost along with her phone which contained her PIN written on a piece of paper. 
She also noted the card was first used over 24 hours after Miss A says her phone and card 
were lost and she wasnt persuaded that an unknown third party would take the risk of 
waiting over 24 hours before using the card as this would increase the likelihood of Miss A 
noticing the card was missing and cancelling or blocking it immediately. She also questioned 
why a third party would have waited until they'd left the UK before using the card.
Finally, our investigator noted that there had been an attempted credit into the account on 1 
August 2023, which was over 24 hours after the last disputed transaction. She explained that 
she didnt think a third party would credit an account and that she would expect to see the 
account drained quickly before the loss was reported.
Overall, she wasnt satisfied that Miss A had been a victim of fraud and so she said Halifax 
didnt need to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Miss A has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She said she didnt 
say her card was stolen on 27 July 2023 because she didnt know it was lost at that time. 
She received a message from Halifax on 1 August 2023 to confirm she was the person who 
made the withdrawals. She replied that it wasnt her and went to the branch to confirm it 
wasnt her who made the withdrawals. She told it that she last used her bank card on 27 July 
2023 in a supermarket, but this wasnt when she discovered the card was missing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss A feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Miss A has explained that her phone and debit card were lost or stolen and that, 
unfortunately, the PIN was written on a piece of paper inside her phone. Transactions 
totalling £3,000 were then made outside the UK using her genuine card and PIN.
The disputed payments were made using CHIP and PIN and happened outside of the UK 
over a period of two days. There was also an attempted credit into the account on 1 August 
2023. I noted the comments Miss A has made about how she learned about the disputed 
payments, but Ive thought about the available evidence and I agree with our investigator 
that the circumstances arent consistent with her having been the victim of fraud. This is 
because fraudsters usually use stolen cards as quickly as possible because of the likelihood 
the owner will realise the card is missing and cancel it with their bank.
However, even if I did accept that Miss A was the victim of fraud, as a general rule its 
reasonable for Halifax to hold Miss A liable for transactions where the evidence suggests 
she authorised them. This doesnt necessarily mean Miss A made the transactions, but by 
keeping her PIN together with her debit card, shes allowed someone to make them.
Miss A has said her phone and debit card were stolen and that the PIN was with the card, in 
which case, she has breached the terms and conditions of her account - and Halifax is 
entitled to hold her liable for the loss. In the circumstances, while I sympathise with the 
situation Miss A now finds herself, I cannot fairly ask that Halifax refund this money to her.
Compensation
Miss A has said that she suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of the way Halifax 
investigated the disputed payments, but I cant see that the service she received fell below a 
reasonable standard and so shes not entitled to any compensation.
Because of this, Im satisfied Halifax took the correct steps after being notified of the 
disputed transactions, so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman