DRN-3770739
The complaint
Mrs E complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund her for transactions she said 
she didnt make.
What happened
On 17 April 2022, Mrs E, represented by her partner, contacted Lloyds and said there had 
been two fraudulent transactions on her account the previous day:
- a £66.66 debit card payment to an online payment company; and
- a £120 cash machine withdrawal using the genuine card and correct PIN. 
  
Mrs E told Lloyds that she still had her debit card and no-one else had access to it. She also 
said no-one else had access to her PIN.
Lloyds adviser couldnt identify how the card and PIN had been compromised, and refused 
to refund Mrs E. When Lloyds complaint manager spoke to Mrs E about the outcome, she 
raised more transactions as fraudulent. These were multiple transactions to an online 
gambling organisation, which had taken place a couple of months earlier on 21 and 22 
February 2022. 
Lloyds dealt with the new report of fraudulent transactions in the same complaint, and it 
didnt agree to refund those either.  Lloyds issued its final response letter to Mrs Es 
complaint on 20 April. It said that Mrs E had said she still had her debit card and no-one else 
had access to it, and no-one else knew her PIN and she hadnt written it down. The 
transactions had been carried out using the genuine card and correct PIN, and Lloyds 
couldnt see how anyone else could have carried out the transactions.
Lloyds also said, about the gambling transactions, that theyd been done from the same IP 
address (a unique computer identifier) as the one used for activity which Mrs E hadnt 
disputed. So it couldnt offer a refund.
Mrs E wasnt satisfied, and contacted this service. She also closed the Lloyds account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. Hed listened to the calls, and said that the 
first report was that Mrs E still had her card, hadnt written down her PIN, and had made a 
£50 cash withdrawal after the disputed transaction. But this story had changed several times 
during the calls with Lloyds. He also pointed out that to carry out the disputed payments, any 
third party fraudster would have had to have taken Mrs Es card and returned it to her, as 
well as knowing her address, and being able to use her IP address.
Mrs E didnt agree. She said shed never been in contact with the gambling firm and had 
never done any gambling, so why would she suddenly make all the transactions. She said 
Lloyds were accusing her of trying to extort money from them, which wasnt the case. And 
she said she lived on benefits so she couldnt afford to spend that amount of money in one 
day, let alone on gambling. She said this had left her heavily in debt which she couldnt 
afford. Mrs E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I recognise that Mrs E said that she couldnt afford to spend so much money in one 
day, let alone on gambling, and she couldnt afford the debts from these disputed 
transactions. I can see that Lloyds offered Mrs E the opportunity to talk to its financial 
assistance team, and also that Mrs E was in contact with an advice service when she 
contacted our service. But I have to look at the evidence, much of which is computer 
evidence, to assess whether its more likely than not that Mrs E, or an unknown third party 
fraudster, authorised the disputed transactions.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in February and April 2022 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show 
the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Lloyds has shown 
evidence that Mrs Es genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the 
disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Ive looked separately at the three sets of disputed payments:
- a £66.66 debit card payment to an online payment company on 16 April; 
- a £120 cash machine withdrawal on 16 April; 
- multiple gambling transactions on 21 and 22 February.
The £66.66 debit card payment was carried out online. The recipient was set up using Mrs 
Es genuine card, and there was a match with her address. Mrs E used her card for 
undisputed transactions after this, and when she first contacted Lloyds said that she still had 
her card. So any third party fraudster carrying this out would have had to steal Mrs Es card 
without her knowledge, then return it to her, also without her knowledge. Returning a card in 
this way isnt what a fraudster would normally do  there would be a risk of being found out, 
and also fraudsters tend to try to maximise their gains. Mrs E told Lloyds that no-one else 
had access to her card and PIN, but if she had allowed anyone to use her card and let them 
know her PIN, this would count as her having authorised the payment.  I cant see how any 
third party not known to Mrs E could have carried out this transaction.
The £120 cash machine withdrawal was also carried out using the genuine card.  This is 
shown by the computer records, and there have never been any known instances of the chip 
in a card being copied or cloned. And Mrs Es correct PIN was input too. There are 10,000 
possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so I dont consider its likely that anyone have 
correctly guessed her PIN. As with the debit card payment, anyone who carried out this 
transaction would have had to steal then return Mrs Es card, which isnt what a fraudster 
would do. And if she let anyone use the card and gave them the PIN, this would count as her 
having authorised the payment. So again, I cant see how any third party not known to Mrs E 
could have carried out this transaction.
Mrs E didnt report the multiple February gambling transactions until mid April. She told 
Lloyds shed noticed them when printing a mini statement, but those dont show transactions going so far back. These transactions were set up using Mrs Es genuine card and address. 
Ive also seen other computer evidence, including the IP address used for these 
transactions. As Lloyds told Mrs E in its final response letter, the transaction were made from 
the IP address which Mrs E had used for transactions which she hadnt disputed. I cant see 
how any third party fraudster unknown to Mrs E could have done this.
Taking all these elements into account, I think its more likely than not that Mrs E authorised 
the payments herself, or allowed someone else to use her card, PIN and details, which also 
counts as Mrs E authorising the payments. So I dont uphold her complaint, and Lloyds 
doesnt have to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman