DRN-4429863
The complaint
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr Bs complaint is about a claim they made on their Great Lakes
Insurance SE (Great Lakes) travel insurance policy.
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B say Great Lakes treated them unfairly.
What happened
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B booked a return flight to Italy. On their return home their flight
was cancelled because it had missed the air traffic slot.
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B say they contacted Great Lakes at this point and were told
their policy would cover them if they booked into a hotel and arranged a later flight home.
They also say they were told that they could each incur up to £3,000 per person including
hotels, taxis and other expenses and could also claim for the cost of travel from another UK
airport to the one theyd booked if they were only able to arrange a return flight to a different
airport in the UK.
When they put in their claim on returning home, Great Lakes declined to pay all it in contrast
to what Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B say they were told. Theyre also unhappy with the time
it took for their claim to be considered and the fact that they had to keep supplying further
information, only for them not to be covered for everything. They say this took about four
months in total. Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B want Great Lakes cover the total amount
theyre claiming for.
Great Lakes say that Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B dont have the travel disruption
extension added to their existing travel insurance policy which would have covered them for
the claim they were making in full and as such the amount theyd paid out in respect of the
claim was correct.
They did however acknowledge some failings in the service theyd provided. They offered 
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B £125 for delays in the progression of the claim and £100 for
failing to deal with one of their complaint points respectively. Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B
remain unhappy so referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said
the policy they purchased didnt cover them for the full extent of the claim they were seeking
to be reimbursed for. She also said that Great Lakes settled the difference in the cost of the
cancelled flights and the refund they received for this, even though the policy terms only
provided cover for delays rather than cancellation. The investigator also took the view that
the compensation Great Lakes offered for delays and service failings was adequate in the
circumstances. Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B dont agree so the matter was passed to
me to determine.
Earlier this month I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to depart from the investigators findings and uphold Mrs B, Miss B,
Mr B and Mr Bs complaint.
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr Bs policy only covers them for travel delay and not the
cancellation of their flight home. The travel delay section of the policy extends to paying £50
for the first full 12 hours then £10 for each following full 12 hour period per insured person.
They didnt have the benefit of the travel disruption extension to their policy, which would
have covered them for considerably more.
In this Great Lakes didnt cover the difference between the cost of the flights back to the UK
and the sum they were expecting to be refunded to them by the airline that cancelled the
flight as the investigator said. Rather they paid out the claim under the travel delay section,
calculating the delay at 48 hours and paying that in accordance with their terms.
Great Lakes havent covered the difference between the cost of flights back to the UK and
the amount to be refunded by the airline who cancelled the flight, the cost of the hotel Mrs B,
Miss B, Mr B and Mr B stayed in, their taxi back to the airport in Italy and the cost of food
and refreshments from the point their flight was cancelled, until Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr
B were able to return back to the UK. The policy terms dont require Great Lakes to do this,
but Ive considered what Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B were told when they called Great
Lakes from the airport to establish what help could be provided.
The call recording doesnt appear to have considered by Great Lakes before they responded
to Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr Bs complaint. Indeed, it was only provided to the investigator
in response to a further request for it after she issued her initial view. Having listened to it,
its clear that the information Mrs B was given on the call about the travel cover they had in
place was wrong. She was told they have a comprehensive policy which covers them for
extended travel delay and enforced delay up to a maximum of £1,000 per person. The
person she spoke to said they could book a flight with another airline and if it was more
expensive, they could claim for the difference. The advisor also said that if they couldnt
book new flights on that day then they could stay in a hotel and book new flights the
following day. In addition, Mrs B was told that if they were struggling to find a flight back to
the UK airport, they had parked their car at, they would be covered to fly to another UK
airport and claim for the taxi fare between those airports. She was asked to save their
receipts and submit them with their claim on her return.
In considering this call recording, our investigator agreed that although Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B 
and Mr B had been given the wrong information, this wouldnt have made a difference to the
sums they would have had to spend to get home, whether or not Great Lakes covered it.
She thought the only detriment to Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B was the loss of expectation
of having their claim covered for this and that was covered by the compensation payment
already offered by Great Lakes. Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B dont agree. They say they
would have done something differently if theyd been given the correct information like sleep
at the airport to minimise the amount they would have had to pay, rather than incur the costs
they were led to believe would be covered.
Ive thought about what theyve said as well as what was said on the call by Mrs B. She said
theyd looked at other flights returning to the UK that day and that they were very expensive
and fully booked due to airline strikes. Ive also noted Mr Bs comments to Great Lakes in an
email that the earliest flight they could find to return was two days later. Given what the
Great Lakes advisor told them, I think its likely that if Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B found a
flight returning the same day, they would have done so as they were led to believe the cost
difference in the cancelled flight and any new one would be covered.I also take on board what they say about hotel and other costs. Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr
B were led to believe that their hotel and other costs up to £1,000 per person would be
covered. They say that if theyd been told they werent, they might have slept at the airport.
But Im not persuaded by this. Given Mr Bs confirmation to Great Lakes that the next
available flight back to the UK wasnt until two days later, I think its unlikely they would have
chosen to sleep at the airport. I might have been more inclined to accept what theyve said
about this if the next flight was, say a few hours later or even the next morning, but in this
case, Im not satisfied they would have done so. And like Ive said above, I think they would
have returned sooner if they could have given the representations that were made to them.
So, it follows that I dont think they would have done anything differently if theyd been given
the correct information by Great Lakes when they called.
In particular, Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B would always have incurred the return flight
costs, the cost of additional accommodation, their taxi back to the airport in Italy and the cost
of food and refreshments from the point their flight was cancelled, until they were able to
return back to the UK. So, I dont think Great Lakes need to pay their claim for this. I do
however think the information their advisor gave caused a loss of expectation to Mrs B, Miss
B, Mr B and Mr B and that they should receive additional compensation for this. Ive gone on
to consider this together with the compensation Great Lakes has already offered below.
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B are unhappy with the level of compensation they were offered
given the months they had to chase for the claim to be considered and the fact that they
remain out of pocket. They say the total of £225 theyve been offered is derisory and only
represents less than 1% of the initial cost of their claim. I agree that £225 doesnt properly
compensate them for the difficulties theyd encountered. They were clearly given the wrong
information by the advisor on the travel claims line that Great Lakes are responsible for
which caused a loss of expectation. Had Great Lakes listened to the call recording sooner, I
think its likely they would have picked up on this and agreed to offer them something more
in respect of their error. Mrs B was after all able to provide the name of the person she
spoke to, so the call was identifiable. Indeed, Great Lakes were able to supply this to the
investigator, so the task wasnt impossible. Because of this, I think Great Lakes should pay
Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B £400 for loss of expectation and a further £400 in
compensation for delays and poor handling of the claim generally to include the issues that
Great Lakes identified. This award includes the sum of £225 that Great Lakes have already
offered Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should pay Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B a total of £800 in compensation for
the loss of expectation caused by the information they gave them as well as the delays and
poor handling of the claim. This amount includes the sum of £225 that Great Lakes have
already offered.
I asked both parties to provide me with any comments and evidence they wanted me to 
consider. Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B have said they are pleased with the outcome Ive 
reached and have nothing further to add. Great Lakes have acknowledged receipt of the 
decision but havent responded to the substance of it. Given the time for responding to my 
provisional findings has now passed, I shall now make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr Bs complaint should be upheld for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. Neither party has made any 
submissions or supplied any further information or evidence that makes me think the 
outcome I reached was wrong or that the compensation Ive awarded isnt adequate. As 
such, Great Lakes should put things right in the way Ive directed below.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should pay Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr B a total of £800 in compensation for
the loss of expectation caused by the information they gave them as well as the delays and
poor handling of the claim. This amount includes the sum of £225 that Great Lakes have
already offered.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs B, Miss B, Mr B and Mr Bs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and 
direct them to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Miss B, Mr 
B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman