DRN-3670168
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) wrongly advised him to 
transfer his defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a stakeholder pension plan.
What happened
In the Spring of 2009, Mr B contacted Wesleyan after it had been recommended to him. 
Mr B was a member of his former employers occupational defined benefit (DB) scheme. He 
was approaching the age of 50 and wanted to take his pension however, the scheme 
trustees didnt permit retirement that early. 
Mr B had a financial review meeting with an adviser from Wesleyan during which, amongst 
other things, Mr Bs retirement provisions were discussed. Following the meeting, Wesleyan 
sent Mr B a suitability letter dated 13 July 2009 confirming the financial areas discussed at 
the meeting. In the section of the letter commenting on retirement planning, Wesleyans 
adviser said: 
You are looking to take the benefits from your preserved (former employers) Pension 
Scheme later this year when you are aged 50. You will take the highest lump sum available 
and use this fully to reduce, or if there is enough completely clear your outstanding 
unsecured loans. As I explained I am unable to offer advice on this course of action with 
regard to your (former employers) Pension Scheme. 
The letter also noted that Mr B had £41,500 in outstanding unsecured debt.
Wesleyan sent Mr B a further letter about a month later on 20 August 2009 in which it stated: 
We confirm we are unwilling to accept a transfer from an Occupational pension scheme into 
our Wesleyan Personal Pension, as we believe the likelihood of such a transfer being in your 
best interests is minimal. We are however obliged, under the Stakeholder regulations, to 
accept the transfer value into our Wesleyan Stakeholder Pension if you insist on this course 
of action. If you do change your mind and require advice, then an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA) will be best placed to provide this service as Wesleyan are unable to provide 
advice regarding the possibility of a transfer from an Occupational pension scheme.
Wesleyan enclosed a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) illustration for the transfer value 
from Mr Bs DB scheme which showed the total transferrable sum was £80,715.38. The 
letter included an application form for Mr B to complete if he wanted to proceed and it asked 
him to write it a handwritten letter stating he wanted to proceed on an execution only basis 
and that he had neither sought nor received advice from Wesleyan regarding the transfer. 
A few days later Mr B signed the application forms and sent them back to Wesleyan along 
with the handwritten letter it had requested. The letter also said that Mr B understood he was 
giving up the benefit of a pension promise under the DB scheme but that he wanted to take 
his benefits at 50. 
A week or so later, Wesleyan wrote to Mr B to say it had received the application form and 
the handwritten letter. It drew Mr Bs attention to the Key Features and illustration documents 
and advised him to read them carefully. The letter went on to say: 
Proceeding on an execution only basis reflects the fact that you fully appreciate the 
implications of deciding to proceed with the transfer and that you possess a proper grasp of 
the facts. In making the decision to proceed with this transaction you are therefore prepared 
to accept the consequences of this transfer and ultimately the responsibility for this decision 
is your own.
The letter also said that Mr B was entitled to a two-week cooling-off period to have the time 
to review the matter but acknowledged his previously stated wish to waive the right to do so.
In October 2009 the transfer proceeded and a total of £81,018.35 was transferred to a 
stakeholder plan with Wesleyan. Mr B took tax-free cash (TFC) of £20,254.60 and began to 
receive an annuity of £2,983.44.
In August 2021 Mr B, through his representative, complained to Wesleyan. He said he had 
lost his DB scheme benefits and the opportunity to purchase a more valuable annuity at a 
realistic pensionable age once he had retired from employment. Mr B said Wesleyans 
business model was to solicit and arrange to accept unsophisticated retail clients to facilitate 
transfers of occupational pension schemes without giving proper unbiased advise about the 
suitability of the transfer being made. Mr B also said it was implied that Wesleyan was 
required, but failed, to carry out any due diligence on whether the transfer was appropriate 
and had failed to identify that the transfer wasnt in Mr Bs best interests and so it should 
have declined to facilitate it because it went against its recommendation
Mr B went on to say that Wesleyan was in breach of the regulators COBS rules to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in his best interests. He said as a result of Wesleyans 
actions he had entered into an unsuitable and inappropriate transaction and, if properly 
advised, he would have left his DB benefits where they were. So, he said, hed been mis-
sold his stakeholder pension 
Wesleyan looked into Mr Bs complaint and provided him with its final response in 
November 2021. Wesleyan didnt think that it had done anything wrong so it didnt uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. It said it had given no advice so it was unable to take responsibility for any 
loss he may have subsequently suffered. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Wesleyans investigation, Mr B complained to this service. He 
said that Wesleyan recommended that he make the transfer and that the suitability letter 
Wesleyan sent him in July 2009 showed that his retirement planning was discussed and 
advised on. He said there was no documented process to show why Wesleyan treated Mr B 
as an insistent client. Mr B said no transfer analysis was completed and he said the TFC he 
received was less than half of the amount he owed on his unsecured loans. 
Our Investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought that Wesleyan hadnt advised Mr B to transfer his pension and that it had been 
arranged on an execution only basis. 
Mr B disagreed with out Investigators findings. He said he was an unsophisticated investor 
who decided to transfer a valuable occupational pension scheme without advice and 
guidance. He said that he had received advice so it was unreasonable for our Investigator to 
assume otherwise. Mr B said the transfer was manifestly unreasonable and he said that the 
letter he received from Wesleyan on 20 August 2009 where he was asked to write why he 
wanted to proceed with the transfer amounts to Wesleyan offering him advice. Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind so the complaint was passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and despite my natural 
sympathy for the situation in which Mr B now finds himself, I dont think this is a complaint 
that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at all the evidence associated with Mr Bs complaint and Im satisfied that 
Wesleyan didnt recommend that he transfer his scheme in 2009. Ive seen no evidence that 
it advised Mr B in any way in relation to the transfer. 
Ive set out above how the transfer took place on an execution only/non-advised basis. I 
appreciate that Mr B thinks that Wesleyan did advise him and/or in the alternative that it 
shouldnt be possible for a financial business to facilitate a transfer of an occupation pension 
scheme to a personal pension on an execution only basis. That is something that the 
industry regulator addressed in 2015 since when, under new regulations, it is no longer 
possible to transfer an occupational pension scheme which has benefits worth more than 
£30,000 to a personal pension without first obtaining advice. 
However, before 2009 the regulator defined an execution only transaction as: 
a transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where 
the firm does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction and in 
relation to which the rules on assessment of appropriateness (COBS 10) do not apply.
That means that in 2009 when Mr Bs transfer occurred it was possible to facilitate it on an 
execution only basis and there was a definition in place at the time. In addition, there was a 
requirement for financial businesses to communicate with their customers in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
So Ive looked at the documentary evidence available to me to see if Wesleyan complied 
with this requirement. And I have to say that, from what I have seen, I think it has. For 
example Ive set out above what it said in the letter it wrote to Mr B on 13 July 2009 (the 
suitability letter: 
As I explained I am unable to offer advice on this course of action with regard to your 
(former employers) Pension Scheme.
And I set out above what it said to Mr B in its letter of 20 August 2009: 
If you do change your mind and require advice, then an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) 
will be best placed to provide this service as Wesleyan are unable to provide advice 
regarding the possibility of a transfer from an Occupational pension scheme. [my 
emphasis].
I think that what Wesleyan said here was stated clearly and fairly and wasnt in any way 
misleading. Mr B was put on notice by Wesleyan that it was providing him with no advice. It 
also said that if he changed his mind or required advice then he should consider contacting an IFA. So Im satisfied that Wesleyan didnt try to mislead Mr B into thinking that it had 
given him any advice regarding the suitability of transferring his DB scheme. And I think it 
was clear and fair in its dealings with Mr B.
Ive also noted that Mr B wrote a letter to Wesleyan dated 27 July 2009 in which he said that 
in order to speed up the transfer of his DB scheme he was willing to forgo the usual statutory 
cooling off period. I cant see any evidence that Wesleyan solicited this letter or that he was 
coached about what to say in it. Its reasonable to think therefore that he wrote it himself and 
I think it shows that he was keen to progress the transfer. I accept though that Wesleyans 
letter of 20 August 2009 asked Mr B to write a letter to state he wanted to proceed on an 
execution only basis and that hed not sought or received advice from Wesleyan about the 
transfer. But I dont think explaining to Mr B what he needed to include in a letter is the same 
as saying the transfer was in anyway suitable or amounts to the provision of advice. 
Stakeholder schemes are legally required to accept transfers from any other pension 
scheme so Wesleyan was obliged to tell Mr B how he could go about doing so. But I cant 
say that the outlining of Mr Bs rights is the same as encouraging, endorsing or advising on 
the transfer. And if Mr B thought Wesleyan was recommending that he transfer his DB 
scheme then its unclear to me why he wrote a letter that stated the opposite. I think that the 
fact Mr B wrote a letter stating that he hadnt received any advice and wanted to proceed on 
an execution only basis reasonably implies that this is the course he wanted to take. 
Im unable to agree with Mr B that Wesleyan failed to identify that the transfer wasnt in his 
best interests and that consequently it shouldve declined to facilitate it. As Ive set out 
above, Wesleyan explicitly said it wasnt able to provide advice on the transaction but that it 
didnt think the transfer was likely in Mr Bs best interests. And, as Ive also said above, it 
was legally obliged to accept transfers from other pension schemes so it had to tell Mr B how 
he could achieve his objective. 
Ive seen no evidence that the Wesleyan adviser pressured Mr B into making the transfer 
because he (the adviser) was retiring in a week and that the minimum retirement age was 
about to be increased. I can see the first contact between the adviser and Mr B was in 
June 2009 yet the same adviser outlined the transfer in late August 2009. And at the end of 
July 2009 Mr B made it clear he wanted to speed the transfer up by waiving his cooling off 
period so, I see no point to the adviser pressuring Mr B after this point in any event.
Fully advised pension transfers typically mean the adviser will receive commission for 
completing the transaction. That no commission was paid to Wesleyan here further supports 
the fact that this was a transfer that proceeded without any advice being given. And the 
adviser himself wasnt authorised to advice on pension transfers. Rather, the evidence Ive 
seen indicates that it was Mr B that decided he wanted to transfer his pension and that he 
was willing to do so on an execution only basis. 
The absence of any documentation to show why Wesleyan had treated Mr B as an insistent 
client is because it didnt do so. A financial firm need only consider a client to be insistent 
where it has given that client a personal recommendation in the first place. Here, Wesleyan 
made no recommendation to Mr B so there was no need to invoke any insistent client 
process. And, in any event, there was no regulatory guidance on what to do when a client 
insisted on going against a firms recommendation before January 2018. 
It follows that because Wesleyan didnt give Mr B any advice in 2009, and that its dealings 
with him were fair, clear and not misleading, I cant say its responsible for his decision to 
transfer his DB scheme to a stakeholder pension so Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman