DRN-1808148
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about U K Insurance Limited, trading as Natwest Insurance (UKI), and their 
failure to arrange recovery of his car. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr Ls car suffered an electrical fault which left the convertible roof half way 
up. Mr K held a roadside assistance insurance policy with UKI. So, he contacted them to 
arrange the recovery of his car as he was concerned about the damage that would be 
caused if he drove it home.
UKI arranged for a third party company to attend. But, 45 minutes after that was arranged, 
the third party company called Mr L to explain theyd be unable to attend due to how busy 
they were that day. They were also unwilling to attempt a roadside repair due to the make of 
Mr Ls car. Mr L spoke to UKI again who were unable to arrange for another company to 
attend. UKI failed to offer any alternative options. So, Mr L felt that he had no other choice 
but to drive his car home in its current state. 
Mr L had to drive the car home at a reduced speed, meaning a journey that should have 
taken 90 minutes took four hours to complete. As he was unable to close the roof, his wife 
suffered sunburn during the journey due to the hot weather on that particular day. 
Mr L was unhappy that UKI failed to assist him so he raised a complaint. He explained hed 
held the policy for a number of years and didnt feel that the premiums hed paid were value 
for money. So, he asked for his premiums to be refunded. He also explained he expected 
UKI to cover the costs for any repairs that may be required if additional damage had been 
caused when driving his car home.
UKI initially closed the complaint without offering a resolution. Mr L chased this and UKI re-
opened the complaint. They then decided to uphold the complaint. They thought theyd failed 
to do enough to try and arrange recovery of Mr Ls car on the day. They also thought theyd 
failed to offer viable alternatives to Mr L, such as him arranging his own recovery where 
theyd then reimburse the cost. But, they thought it was Mr Ls own decision to drive the car 
home so didnt agree that they were responsible for any inconvenience he was caused on 
his drive home. So, they offered Mr L £100 to recognise their failings. Mr L wasnt happy with 
this so he referred his decision to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He agreed that UKI hadnt acted 
reasonably. He didnt think Mr L had been offered all the alternative options that shouldve 
been under the insurance policy. And crucially, because of this, he thought Mr L was left with 
no option but to drive the car home. So, he thought that UKI were responsible for the 
inconvenience Mr L and his wife were caused during their drive home. For this reason, he 
didnt think the £100 UKI offered was enough and increased this payment to £200. Mr L 
agreed with this view.But, UKI disagreed. They explained certain options such as overnight accommodation 
couldnt be provided as the car couldnt be secured. They also thought Mr L couldve 
stopped at a garage on his drive back so maintained they werent responsible for the 
inconvenience Mr L and his wife suffered. So, they thought their offer of £100 was 
reasonable. As UKI disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not in dispute that UKIs service fell below what theyd consider to be reasonable. 
Theyve agreed that they failed to take all reasonable steps they couldve done to ensure Mr 
Ls car was recovered and that he wasnt offered all the viable alternatives. So, Ive focused 
on the impact this had on Mr L and what I think is a fair and reasonable offer to recognise 
this.
UKI think that it was Mr Ls own decision to drive his car back home at a reduced speed. And 
because of this, they dont think this journey and any inconvenience it caused should be 
included when calculating a fair offer of compensation. But, in this instance I dont agree.
UKI have admitted they failed to call a number of third parties that may have been able to 
recover Mr Ls car. UKI have also admitted they didnt offer Mr L the choice of arranging his 
own recovery and being reimbursed the costs of this. And even if Mr L had been, I think its 
most likely that Mr L wouldve faced the same problems as UKI in sourcing a company that 
had the availability to do so.
Theyve also said that any offer of overnight accommodation or a taxi home wouldnt have 
been possible as Mr Ls car wasnt able to be secured as the roof was left open. So, Mr L 
was left in a position where the only way to safely secure his car was to attempt to get it 
home. 
As the roof of Mr Ls car was partially up, he had to drive home at a reduced speed to 
prevent any further damage. This meant that the length of time to complete his journey home 
was significantly increased. This meant that both he and his wife had to spend an additional 
amount of time in the car without the roof protecting them from the heat of that day. Although 
I understand UKIs comments regarding Mr L and his wife ensuring they had adequate sun 
protection such as clothing and sun cream, I dont think its reasonable to assume Mr L and 
his wife shouldve predicted and prepared for a four hour journey home without a roof on 
their car.
I think this journey wouldve been stressful for both Mr L and his wife. They wouldve been 
anxious about causing further damage to the car and this wouldve been worsened by the 
length of time the journey took. Although UKI state Mr L couldve stopped at a garage on his 
way back, Im mindful that it was a Sunday afternoon and this wouldve limited the availability 
of any garages that were open or able to work on his make of car. And even so, had UKI 
acted reasonably and done more to source a third party to recover Mr Ls car, I dont think 
this journey wouldve been necessary. So, I think any compensation should include the 
impact this journey had.Having considered this, I think £200 is a fair offer to recognise the failures of UKI to arrange 
recovery of Mr Ls car and the impact this then had when he had no other viable option to 
drive his car home.
My final decision
For the reasons outline above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about U K Insurance Limited, 
trading as Natwest Insurance, and I direct them to make a payment of £200 to Mr L. This 
recognises the inconvenience Mr L has experienced as a direct result of their failures.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman