DRN-3886002
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the service received from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) when 
making a claim on her travel insurance policy  including delays in deciding the claim. 
What happened
Miss S has the benefit of an annual, multi-trip platinum travel insurance policy covering the 
period March 2022 to March 2023 (the policy). 
She travelled abroad in July 2022 and whilst away she contracted Covid-19. As a result, 
Miss S had to change some of her plans causing her some of pocket expenses  which she 
claimed for under the policy. 
Miss S is unhappy with the service she received when making her claim, including the delay 
in assessing her claim, the level of communication shes received from IPA, having to chase 
them for updates and provide documentation more than once.
IPA issued its final response in December 2022. At that time, it still hadnt made a decision 
about whether to accept Miss Ss claim. However, it accepted that it hadnt provided the high 
level of service it expected and because of the increased demands on its service, she had to 
wait longer than she shouldve when calling it, for example. It apologised and offered Miss S 
£75 compensation in recognition of this. 
Miss S didnt think this offer was fair so asked our service to investigate her concerns. Our 
investigator didnt think compensation of £75 was enough to reflect the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience IPA had caused Miss S. He recommended IPA pay £200 in 
compensation.  
As Miss S disagreed, her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So that everyone is clear, as IPA has yet to decide whether it accepts Miss Ss claim, my 
decision focusses on the service Miss S has received since making her claim up to the date 
on which IPA issued its final response letter addressing her concerns in December 2022. If 
Miss S is unhappy with any aspects of the service, shes received from IPA since that date  
including further delays - shes free to raise any further concerns with IPA in the first 
instance. 
Further, if all or any aspects of her claim arent accepted by IPA, shes also free to raise a 
complaint about that. But, again, she will need to raise her concerns with IPA in the first 
instance. 
Miss S has also said that because her claim is yet to be paid, shes been without the money 
shes claiming for, for considerable time. However, as IPA has yet to decide whether it 
accepts her claim, I dont know whether any delays have ultimately led to her being 
financially disadvantaged by the delay in outcome of the claim. 
However, apart from being under an obligation to not unreasonably decline a claim, IPA also 
has an obligation to handle a claim fairly and promptly. It accepts in this case that Miss S 
shouldve received better service; she hasnt been provided with responses when she ought 
to have been and shes spent unnecessary time chasing for replies and requesting updates 
about the progress of her claim. IPA apologised for this and paid Miss S £75 in recognition of 
the poor service she received.
However, I dont think thats enough to reflect the impact this had on her and the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Ive seen documentary evidence that Miss S submitted her claim online on 20 July 2022 
attaching several documents in support. This was acknowledged at the time, and she was 
told that due to a significant increase in demand, she would receive a response within 30 
days. However, Im satisfied that didnt happen and she spent time chasing IPA at the end of 
August 2022 and in early September 2022 for an acknowledgement, and update.
IPA also requested documents from Miss S to progress her claim  such as the original 
booking invoice - but it looks like she provided this when submitting her claim. If the 
documents shed provided werent sufficient, I think IPA shouldve been clearer in its 
explanation what it still needed from Miss S to progress her claim. I can understand why this 
wouldve been frustrating for her and it also looks like she spent additional time on the phone 
trying to contact IPA about her claim throughout September and in early November 2022. 
But again, it doesnt look like her claim was promptly progressed. 
In her complaint form to our service, Miss S also references the two calls she had in early 
November 2022 with IPAs representatives. She says: I have been left in tears tonight as I 
am so exhausted and had to end the conversation because it was making me ill talking 
about it all. This is consistent with a note of one of those calls in IPAs contact notes which 
reflects that Miss S became frustrated because shed said the documents IPA was 
requesting had been sent. 
Miss S has disclosed to our service that she lives with serval chronic health conditions which 
are exacerbated by stress. She says the poor service and delays have caused her to 
become tearful, anxious and she isnt sleeping properly. After one call, she says she had an 
anxiety attack. Im very sorry to hear this. 
Miss S also says that whilst she cannot directly attribute the service shes received from IPA 
to the worsening of her medical conditions, her health has deteriorated in the time since 
submitting her claim and shes taken some time off work. So, having to spend her already 
limited energy on this matter, including several hours on the phone and more time on emails 
and resending evidence to IPA, has significantly impacted her health and wellbeing.
I havent been provided with medical evidence reflecting the extent to which Miss Ss health 
has deteriorated but I accept that the delays in assessing the claim and the poor service 
shes received wouldnt have helped her medical conditions. And that her stress and anxiety 
levels wouldve been exacerbated. She was also caused unnecessary inconvenience.
I know Miss S says the amount should be higher, but taking this all in account Im satisfied 
that compensation in the sum of £200 more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience she experienced up to the date of IPAs final response letter  particularly for the period 
September and November 2022 when she was in more regular contact with IPA. 
Putting things right
I direct IPA to pay Miss S compensation in the total sum of £200 for distress and 
inconvenience  which includes the £75 its already paid to her. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman