DRN-1501952
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy about how Kindertons Ltd handled his motor claim. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 January 2020, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary, I said Kindertons had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Ts car after the accident, 
and in asking the third-party insurer (TPI) to pay this pre-accident value (PAV). There was a 
delay in the PAV being paid to Mr T, but I didnt think Kindertons were responsible for this  
the payment of the PAV was the sole responsibility of the TPI and all Kindertons could do is 
chase them for this, which they did. 
But I agreed that Kindertons shouldve given Mr T the option to buy back his car after it was 
written off as uneconomical to repair. Mr T said he wanted to transfer recently purchased 
parts from his old car to his new car, and the value of these parts was £380 plus VAT. Mr T 
couldnt prove the value of these parts because the evidence of purchase was in his car 
when it was sold at auction. 
I thought these parts needed to be given a second-hand value, as theyd already been fitted 
to a car and been used, and I couldnt say what parts couldve been transferred to a new car. 
So I agreed that the £200 Kindertons had paid Mr T for not giving him the opportunity to buy 
back his car was reasonable. And because Mr T had already received the full PAV, I didnt 
think Kindertons should do anything more. 
Both Mr T and Kindertons have been given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision. Kindertons didnt have any comments, but Mr T rejected this. 
Mr T says my provisional decision says that the liability dispute that delayed the payment of 
the PAV has been resolved, but this isnt the case. He says the liability for the accident is still 
being disputed, and the TPI are dealing with his insurer about this.
Hes also said that, between April and July 2019, he was under the impression that his car 
was still with Kindertons, when it was actually sold at auction on 24 April. Hes said that hes 
self-employed and there were receipts in his car. As these were lost when the car was sold, 
they cant be included in his accounts, so hell have to pay more tax. Because of this, he 
thinks Kindertons should pay more than £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive responded to the points raised by Mr 
T below.It was my understanding that the liability dispute had been resolved when the PAV was paid 
to Mr T. Hes now said this isnt the case, and the dispute is ongoing. This is being dealt with 
by Mr Ts insurer and the TPI  Kindertons are not involved. But because Mr T has already 
received the full PAV, whether the liability dispute is resolved or not has no bearing on my 
final decision. 
I accept that Mr T believed his car was still with Kindertons, and it wasnt until July 2019 
when he found out this wasnt the case. While Kindertons shouldve kept him up to date with 
what was happening, they werent aware that Mr T had important paperwork in the car that 
he needed. After any accident, the owner/driver has the opportunity to remove any personal 
items from the car before its towed away. And if theyre unable to do this at the time, they 
can always ask to remove items after the event.
While Mr T believed his car was still with Kindertons, between 29 March (the date of the 
accident) and 24 April (the date of sale), he didnt make them aware that he had important 
paperwork in the car that he needed back. So Kindertons disposed of the car in good faith. I 
appreciate that Mr T was inconvenienced by this, but he should be able to ask the retailer for 
copies of the missing receipts or use an alternate proof of purchase i.e. entries on his bank 
statements. So I dont think Kindertons should pay Mr T anything additional for the loss of 
the receipts.
While Mr Ts comments have been considered, they also dont change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Kindertons Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr T is unhappy about how Kindertons Ltd handled his motor claim.
what happened
Mr T was involved in a non-fault accident in March 2019 and Kindertons were instructed to 
manage the claim against the third-party insurer (TPI). Mr Ts car was classed as a total loss 
because it was uneconomical to repair. The pre-accident valuation (PAV) of his car was 
£1,150 but the TPI only paid him £900. Mr T disputed the PAV as he thought his car was 
worth more than £1,150.
Mr T is unhappy that the PAV hasnt been increased, and that he hasnt been paid the full 
£1,150. Hes also unhappy that the car was sold without his permission  he intended to buy 
this back and salvage it for parts.
Our investigator found the TPI paid Mr T £900 as an interim payment in April 2019, before 
the car had been assessed by an independent engineer. The engineer valued the car at 
£1,150 and the investigator thought this was a fair value based on industry guides. But he 
thought Kindertons shouldve paid Mr T the £250 difference and it was unreasonable Mr T 
was left out of pocket while Kindertons chased the TPI for the PAV shortfall.Because Mr T didnt receive the full PAV, he says he had to buy a lower quality car. This 
was unreliable, he hasnt been able to bring it to a working condition, so its limited his 
transport and employment options. The investigator thought this couldve been avoided if 
Kindertons had paid Mr T the £250 shortfall in the PAV. Because of this, he recommended 
that Kindertons pay the shortfall to Mr T, along with an additional £150 to compensate him 
for what he felt was an avoidable delay, and the impact of this.
The investigator also thought that Kindertons shouldve offered Mr T the option to buy back 
the salvage of his car, although they didnt need his permission to sell the car once the £900 
had been paid to him  the car belonged to the TPI at this point, not Mr T. But he felt the 
£200 Kindertons had paid Mr T to compensate him for this was reasonable, and he didnt 
think they should pay anything more.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. Hes explained hed had no choice but to buy a 
replacement car with the £900 interim payment. The car he brought needed work, and he 
expected to be able to buy his car back and take all the recently fitted good parts from the 
existing and fit onto the new. Hes said the cost of these parts was £380 plus VAT, so the 
£200 doesnt let him buy these parts again. He feels that, if the TPI had paid the £1,150 
upfront, he wouldnt have needed to do this.
Mr T has also said hes suffered a lot of inconvenience because of what happened. He was 
injured in the accident and hasnt been able to work. Hes also had stress and inconvenience 
caused by having to chase Kindertons about his claim. 
Kindertons also didnt agree with the investigator. Theyve said theyve sent Mr T a cheque 
for £215.50 which, along with the £900 interim payment and £34.50 salvage value payment 
Mr T received in July 2019, makes up the £1,150 PAV payment hes due. Theyve also said 
that Mr T initially rejected the £215.50 when he was sent this in September 2019.
But Kindertons have said the delays in Mr T receiving the full PAV were down to the TPI, 
and not because of anything they did. Because of this, they dont feel they should pay him 
the £150 compensation recommended by the investigator.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr T was involved in an accident on 29 March 2019 and the TPI paid him £900 on 9 April. 
This was before the engineers report had been done, and Kindertons confirmed this was an 
interim payment. Mr Ts car was inspected by the engineer on 9 April and valued at £1,150. 
I appreciate Mr T didnt agree with a PAV of £1,150 and provided Kindertons with adverts 
showing similar cars were being advertised for sale at a higher price. But Ive seen that the 
engineer valued Mr Ts car based on industry guidelines  an average of three price guides. 
So I cant say Kindertons or the engineer did anything wrong by not increasing the PAV.
On 10 April, Kindertons told Mr T they were sending the engineers report to the TPI and 
requesting the additional payment for you. Ive seen they asked the TPI for the 
outstanding PAV as soon as possible and chased for this. Its not Kindertons role to cover 
the shortfall so I wouldnt expect them to do this. The payment of the PAV is the sole 
responsibility of the TPI, and all Kindertons can do is chase them for this, which they did.
But the TPI disputed liability for the accident, so they wouldnt pay the shortfall until this was 
sorted. When liability is disputed, Id expect Kindertons to work with the TPI to resolve this as soon as possible. Ive seen they did this  they challenged the other drivers explanation of 
the accident, and they looked at instructing solicitors when things werent progressing. The 
TPI accepted liability for the accident in September 2019, but Mr T refused to accept the 
PAV shortfall at this point.
Its unfortunate that Mr T had to wait for the full PAV to be paid to him, and I understand that 
this has caused him issues with the replacement car. But I cant hold Kindertons liable for 
this. The delay was caused by the TPI disputing liability and Kindertons tried to sort out this 
dispute as quickly as possible. Because of this, I dont agree with the investigator that 
Kindertons should pay Mr T £150 for the impact of the delay.
Turning to Mr Ts car, on 4 April Kindertons told him that the recovery and storage company 
they used wont auction your vehicle, we use them as a storage yard while your vehicle is 
inspected. The car was inspected on 9 April and the TPI paid Mr T the interim payment. At 
this point the car belonged to the TPI, and they were able to dispose of it without Mr Ts 
authority. The car was sold for salvage on 24 April 2019 and Mr T was paid the salvage 
value of £34.50 in 31 July 2019.
Kindertons say they shouldve given Mr T the option to take back his car and I agree they 
shouldve done this. Mr T has explained that he wanted to transfer parts from his old car to 
his new one, and I dont doubt this was the case. Hes said that the value of these parts was 
£380 plus VAT, but he cant provide any proof of this  the invoices/receipts for the parts 
were in the handbook of his old car, so were lost when the car was sold.
Kindertons have paid Mr T £200 to compensate him for not offering him the option to buy his 
car back. Because Ive not seen anything to show me the value of the parts on Mr Ts old car 
(bearing in mind these would have a second hand value, not a new value, because once 
fitted they would be used parts) or what wouldve been able to be transferred to the new car, 
I agree that £200 is reasonable to compensate Mr T for this. So I wont be asking Kindertons 
to pay him anything more.
And because Mr T has received the £900 interim payment, £34.50 salvage value and a 
cheque for £215.50 in December 2019, Im satisfied hes received the full £1,150 PAV. So I 
wont be asking Kindertons to do anything more.
my provisional decision
For the reasons explained above I dont intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint about Kindertons 
Ltd.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman