DRN-2426794
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs A complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium 
in relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference 
to its agents. 
What happened
On 31 January 2020, Mr L and Mrs A took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy 
with Great Lakes. The policy started on 1 February 2020 and was due to end on 31 January 
2021. The policy provided cover for up to a total of 183 days of travel with a maximum of 50 
days in one trip. Mr L and Mrs A paid a total premium of £369.71, which included a medical 
premium in relation to Mrs As declared medical conditions.     
Mr L and Mrs A were due to travel for their honeymoon in April 2020. On 17 March 2020, the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
Their travel agent contacted them to say that their flights were cancelled. 
In April 2020, Mrs A contacted Great Lakes and asked it to cancel the policy and provide a 
refund of the premium. Great Lakes didnt agree to refund the premium, but it has offered a  
pro rata credit  - amounting to £273.49 - for one of the following options: 
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates;
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy;
a  UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes said initially that the first two options were available until 30 June 2020. It has 
since said that the first two options remain available but may be withdrawn at any time.     
Mr L and Mrs A werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. They 
said that they took out the policy to cover their trip in April 2020, which was cancelled.         
Mr L and Mrs A planned a trip later in 2020, but that didnt happen. They say that they paid 
for the policy but cant use it. Mr L and Mrs A say that they are in a difficult financial position 
and that Mrs A has been self-isolating because of underlying health problems. They want a 
refund of the full amount of the premium.     
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in February  
2020 and the policy covered various risks before it was cancelled.  
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of covid-19. 
He thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for one of the three options it offered 
was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
The voucher isnt appropriate for them as they wont be travelling abroad in 2021.
They want a cash refund of part of the premium they paid. 
They didnt cancel their holiday and would have travelled but for covid-19. 
These are exceptional circumstances, as mentioned in the terms and conditions. 
They cannot afford to lose the money. 
They couldnt contact Great Lakes during lockdown and thats made them worry that 
it wouldnt help them if they were abroad. 
The government has told holiday companies to refund money in full and not to 
provide a voucher. 
Insurers have taken the premiums but not had to settle any claims. 
Mr L and Mrs A asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period  as it was here - Great Lakes isnt obliged 
to give a refund of the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional 
circumstances. Looking at how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask    
Great Lakes to consider exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont 
think this type of situation is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed 
to cover  it specifically mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover 
medical conditions and thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit towards one of the three options Ive set out above is fair. Thats because      
Mr L and Mrs A had the benefit of the policy up to the cancellation date, but Great 
Lakes risk ended when the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate that Mr L and Mrs A would prefer a cash refund, but Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer that. I think the pro rata credit Great Lakes has offered is a fair 
alternative to a cash refund in the circumstances of this case because                     
Mr L and Mrs A entered into an annual contract with Great Lakes then, for reasons I 
quite understand, wish to cancel the policy. The offer Great Lakes has made is more 
than its obliged to make, and it means that the risk it agreed to take on at the outset 
of Mr L and Mrs As policy is potentially moved to a future date, should                     
Mr L and Mrs A take up the offer. I think that the offer of a pro rata credit is fair. 
 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain. Mr L and Mrs A say that they dont 
plan foreign travel in 2021. The pro rata credit can also be used towards the 
purchase of a UK only, annual, multi trip policy.
I note that Mr L and Mrs A say that they couldnt get through to Great Lakes during 
lockdown, but I dont think that means that I can reasonably conclude Great Lakes 
wouldnt deal with any claim Mr L and Mrs A might make whilst on a trip. So, I dont 
think that alters the outcome here.  
Im not aware of any general instruction from the government to insurers that they 
should pay refunds rather than offer vouchers and Mr L and Mrs A havent provided 
evidence that insurers have been given that instruction. The relationship between 
Great Lakes and Mr L and Mrs A is determined by the terms and conditions of the 
policy in the first instance. In addition to that, this service can consider whats fair and 
reasonable. In all the circumstances and bearing in mind that Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer a refund in this case, there are no grounds on which to direct Great 
Lakes to give Mr L and Mrs A a cash refund.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr L and Mrs As complaint. 
If Mr L and Mrs A wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Louise PoveyOmbudsman