DRN-4525596
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out motor insurance with Trinity Lane and looked to make a claim under his policy 
after his bike was damaged following a repair at Garage M. Mr L took his classic motorbike 
for the repair of a rear tyre, a health check and road test. But when M undertook the road 
test of his motorbike Mr L thought it damaged his bike causing problems with the rear 
suspension amongst other things. 
Mr L tried to advance his issues with the garage but as it wouldnt accept any responsibility 
he made a claim under his motorbike insurance policy. Trinity Lane looked into the claim 
initially and its approved repairer didnt think the damage could be attributed to the road test 
that was undertaken by M and highlighted that a worn shock absorber and modifications to 
the bike may have contributed to the damage to Mr Ls motorbike. As Mr L wasnt happy 
about this he complained to Trinity Lane and got another motorbike garage to confirm that 
none of the alterations to Mr Ls bike would have affected the handling or performance of the 
bike. 
Trinity Lane went on to offer Mr L a partial settlement of around £900 as a contribution to the 
damage Mr Ls bike sustained. Overall, three separate inspections of Mr Ls motorbike was 
undertaken by Trinity Lane and two thought the damage sustained wasnt caused by garage 
M. However, as one engineer suggested some of the damage could have been caused by 
the garage it offered to pay Mr L a cash settlement for the damage that could be attributed to 
garage M. But Mr L remained unhappy, so he complained to this Service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
sympathised with Mr Ls position he didnt think Trinity Lane had done anything wrong in 
following the one engineers opinion that supported Mr L in concluding some, but not all, of 
the damage could have been caused by M and agreeing to pay that as a gesture of goodwill. 
As Mr L didnt agree, maintaining all the damage was caused by M, the matter has been 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration here as he knows what position his bike was in before 
going in for repair. But I can only consider the evidence provided by both sides in looking to 
decide what is fair and reasonable. I have to rely on the expert engineers reports in forming 
my opinion. And having done so I agree Trinity Lanes offer seems fair. I know Mr L will not 
be happy about this, but Ill explain why. 
I know Mr L feels the repairing garage caused more damage to his bike than Trinity Lane are 
looking to pay him. But garage M hasnt taken any responsibility for the damage Mr L says 
was caused on a road test of his motorbike and two of the inspections support this position 
in full, while a third has suggested that some of the damage could be attributed to M. And 
given that the professional opinions provided are at odds with each other I think Trinity 
Lanes position is reasonable. 
Mr L feels Trinity Lane should do more to investigate his claim that M caused all of the 
damage to his motorbike. But three expert opinions have been sought and two of those 
clearly suggest M cant be held at fault here. And the one that supports Mr L doesnt feel all 
the damage can be attributed to garage M or the test drive of his bike. So, given this I cant 
say Trinity Lane has acted unfairly here in suggesting a settlement figure that is mainly in 
line with the engineer that partly supported Mr Ls position. 
I say this as Trinity Lane considered gaining a fourth opinion but didnt feel this was 
beneficial which is understandable in the particular circumstances of this case. And the final 
expert opinion agreed with the first and that the failing shock absorber was most likely 
caused by wear and tear and didnt feel that any of the damage was related to the alleged 
test drive by garage M. So, I dont think Trinity Lane acted unfairly in paying what it felt could 
be attributed to the incident which didnt include the rear shock or fuel tank. 
I have considered Mr Ls photographs and video that he put forward in support of his 
position, but I dont think this is strong enough to say his bike was perfect before going in for 
repair. Indeed, he clearly seemed to want garage M to undertake a wider health check of his 
motor bike in addition to having a look at the tyre problem. And two of the engineers have 
clearly suggested wear and tear, of a part over 40 years old, would most likely have been a 
contributing factor here. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr L has found himself, I 
dont think Trinity Lane have acted unfairly here. It has offered to pay Mr L for the damage 
that can be attributed to the incident at the garage (£911) which seems fair and will pay VAT 
on that payment subject to Mr L providing receipts once the work is completed. And if Mr L 
has any further evidence or gains an independent engineers report in support of his position 
then I would expect Trinity Lane to consider this. 
Plus, Mr L has suggested Trinity Lanes repairing agents may have caused some minor 
additional damage to his bike in storage and transit while looking into his claim. I havent 
seen any evidence that this has been fully considered by Trinity Lane within its final 
response letter and it would need to have been for me to consider this as part of this 
complaint. So I will leave both sides to advance this now. 
Finally, I note Trinity Lane do not believe they can recover its costs from garage M due to 
insufficient evidence to say they caused the damage to Mr Ls motorbike. In order to mark 
this claim as non-fault, as Mr L would like, Trinity Lane would need to be able to recover its 
costs and if this isnt possible, which seems likely here, then the claim will be marked as 
fault. So although I understand Mr L would like this marked as a non-fault claim this isnt 
likely here unless Trinity Lane can recover its costs. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman