DRN-1763807
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt return his telephone call despite telling him they 
would. They also delayed in responding to his emails despite him chasing. TSB Bank plc 
paid compensation of £15 which Mr L feels isnt a reasonable amount. Mr L feels 
compensation of £30 would be reasonable.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr L received a letter from TSB Bank plc which included a cheque for £5.46. 
The letter said that due to a system update, a standing order payment from Mr Ls account 
didnt go through in April 2018. They explained the problem had been fixed but to put things 
right they offered £5, they said this sum was for the maximum amount of interest his account 
would earn in one month. As compensation they also offered 8% simple interest which came 
to 46p. 
Mr L telephoned TSB Bank plc to find out what the letter was about and was told he would 
receive a return call. He didnt receive a call so he sent them an email on 27 August and 
asked for an explanation for why he hadnt received a return call. Having not heard back, he 
chased on 3, 23 and 30 September. 
TSB Bank plc responded on 9 October and explained the position in relation to the August 
letter and, as well as apologising, they explained why his call hadnt been returned. They 
explained that the call back request had been passed to a team that deal with our service 
and this team doesnt normally contact customers. They offered £15 as compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience Mr L experienced.  
Mr L responded on 12 October and said that he was frustrated at the length of time it had 
taken to get a response from them. He said he would accept £30 as a resolution to his 
complaint. Mr L then sent another email on 19 October and said that he had cashed the 
cheque for £15 but was still waiting for a response to his last email. TSB Bank plc responded 
on 22 October and said that the decision they had already given was fair and they had 
responded within the eight week timescale. Mr L then referred the matter to us.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L and contacted TSB Bank plc for their response. 
They told us that Mr L had raised a complaint previously about his standing orders following 
TSB Bank plcs IT issues. That complaint was resolved in 2018. The new complaint was 
logged on 22 August 2019 after Mr L asked for an explanation for why he had received the 
letter in August and cheque for £5.46. They told us that a call back note was added to his old 
complaint which was handled by their team that only contact our service and not customers.   
Our investigator agreed there had been an error here. They felt that TSB Bank plcs offer of 
£15 was fair and that they had done enough to put things right. Mr L disagreed and told us 
that he feels £30 is a reasonable level of compensation but he would accept £25. Our 
investigator didnt feel this was reasonable so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. 
TSB Bank plc accept there has been an error here, they agree they didnt return Mr Ls call 
to explain what the letter and cheque was for. I agree there has been an error here and, 
given that Mr L was told he would get a return call, TSB Bank plc should have contacted 
him. 
Having not heard back from TSB Bank plc by telephone, Mr L contacted them by email and 
chased on a number of occasions. I do agree that TSB Bank plc did respond to Mr Ls 
complaint within eight weeks but they should have responded to Mr L sooner even if this was 
to acknowledge his emails and/or to provide a timescale setting out when they would 
respond. Its clear that Mr L was concerned at not receiving a telephone call, this is shown in 
the fact that he chased this up by email and continued to do so until he got an answer from 
TSB Bank plc.    
The period of time over which the concern lasted is limited to around six weeks, which is the 
period from Mr L raising a query about the letter and cheque and then getting a response. 
During this time, I agree he wanted further information and it was frustrating for him to not 
get this. However, the letter he received in August did set out what the cheque was for and 
how TSB Bank plc had worked this out. It would be more concerning to receive a cheque 
without any explanation and in those cases I can understand a customer would feel more 
worried. That said, I do understand however if Mr L wanted further information about the 
letter, then TSB Bank plc shouldve got back to him by telephone.  
Taking these points into account, I agree an award should reflect the worry and 
inconvenience caused to Mr L. I have also taken account of the relatively short period of time 
the problem continued and there being no evidence of a significant impact on Mr L.  
I feel that the compensation paid by TSB Bank plc of £15 is fair and reasonable and takes 
account of the concern caused to Mr L and the inconvenience caused by having to chase.
My final decision
TSB Bank plc have already paid compensation of £15 to settle the complaint and my view is 
that this is fair in all the circumstances. I will not be asking TSB Bank plc to take any further 
steps.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman