DRN-3338994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) 
handled their travel insurance claim for a cancelled trip. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held a travel insurance policy as a benefit of their home insurance, provided 
by UKI. The policy ran from 2 March 2019 to 1 March 2020. Mr and Mrs P didnt renew the 
policy in March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs P were due to travel abroad in August 2020 but were unable to go due to the 
UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advising against all but 
essential travel to their intended destination on 27 July 2020. Mr and Mrs P contacted UKI to 
ask if they could make a claim under the policy theyd held when the trip was booked in 
January 2020. 
UKI incorrectly told Mr and Mrs P that they could make a claim. UKI first directed Mr and Mrs 
P to their credit card provider and subsequently asked for various documentation from Mr 
and Mrs P in connection with their claim. UKI then told Mr and Mrs P that their claim was 
being paid. When Mr and Mrs P informed UKI that the proposed claim payment included 
flights which werent being claimed for, UKI said it would need to cancel the payment and 
request a new one. However, the following day, UKI told Mr and Mrs P that their claim wasnt 
covered because there was no travel insurance policy in force for them to make a claim 
under. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to UKI. UKI acknowledged that Mr and Mrs P werent told when 
logging their claim that it couldnt be considered, and that it had requested documents from 
Mr and Mrs P on a number of occasions but failed to notice that the claim wasnt covered. 
UKI also acknowledged that it had incorrectly raised a claim payment for Mr and Mrs P and 
had also failed to contact them with updates. UKI paid Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience theyd experienced. 
As Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, they brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think UKI had 
acted unfairly by declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim. However, she said she thought it would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs P a further £100 
compensation  making a total of £250. UKI accepted our investigators opinion but Mr and 
Mrs P didnt, so their complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue of whether Mr and Mrs Ps claim is covered under the policy they held with UKI 
doesnt appear to be in dispute. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think their claim is 
covered. Mr and Mrs P didnt hold an active policy with UKI at the time their holiday was 
cancelled. The terms and conditions of the policy say that cancellation cover only applies up 
to the policy end date. Mr and Mrs Ps policy ended in March 2020 and the insured event 
leading to the cancellation of their trip (the change in FCDO advice) didnt happen until July 
2020. I dont think the policy wording in this regard is inconsistent or unclear, and I also 
wouldnt have expected UKI to specifically point out that all cover under the policy would 
cease if the policy wasnt renewed. So, I dont think UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
The outstanding question for me to determine is what level of compensation I think would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the impact of UKIs actions on Mr and Mrs P. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator and we have no power to punish or fine 
businesses through our compensation awards. Im not bound by either previous final 
decisions or by the case studies set out on our website. My remit is to decide what I think is 
fair and reasonable based on the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, 
taking into account the impact of UKIs mistakes on them.  
Theres no doubt that UKI made mistakes in this case. And I also have no doubt that these 
mistakes had an impact on Mr and Mrs P. UKI has acknowledged that it should have 
identified at the outset that Mr and Mrs Ps claim wasnt covered, and that it missed six 
different opportunities to identify this. Because of UKIs errors, Mr and Mrs P were put to the 
time and inconvenience of trying to pursue a claim with their credit card provider and were 
also put to the time and inconvenience of providing documentation relating to their claim to 
UKI. 
It took UKI six months to let Mr and Mrs P know that their claim wasnt covered and, the day 
prior, UKI had told Mr and Mrs P that theyd be receiving a claim payment. Im satisfied that 
this will have caused Mr and Mrs P distress and upset, having been led to believe that their 
claim would be paid. 
While I dont doubt this situation had an impact on Mr and Mrs P  and I acknowledge that 
the impact of UKIs mistakes on Mr and Mrs P were more than minimal - I dont think their 
situation falls into the category of cases where an award of between £300 and £750 
compensation would be appropriate.  
While UKIs mistakes may have continued for a number of months, this alone doesnt 
warrant an award at the level which Mr and Mrs P are seeking. Its the overall impact of 
UKIs mistakes on Mr and Mrs P thats relevant. I dont think the impact of this situation on 
Mr and Mrs P is comparable to the impact of the situations set out on our website where 
awards of between £300 and £750 were considered fair. And, when considering what award 
I think is appropriate in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, Ive taken into 
account the fact that they didnt rely on UKIs advice to their detriment  their holiday had 
already been unavoidably cancelled when UKI provided them with incorrect information. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that the total compensation of £250 which UKI has now offered to 
pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be directing UKI to do anything 
further. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs 
P a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. This 
includes the £150 compensation already paid. U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the additional compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the additional compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line 
in part and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman