DRN-2485559
The complaint
Mr S believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan hed applied 
for.
What happened
In March 2015 Mr S took out a £3,600 loan with AvantCredit; to be repaid over 48 months 
with repayments of £196.36 a month.
Mr S has complained that AvantCredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. He 
said that the loan was unaffordable at the time, and he ended up in financial difficulties as a 
result. Avantcredit didnt agree, so Mr S brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr S provided AvantCredit with details of his income and expenditure; 
and they used this, plus the information they obtained from a credit search, to make their 
lending decision. She said Mr S didnt provide any breakdown of his expenditure, only a total 
figure, so it wasnt clear what was included. So she thought AvantCredit shouldve asked for 
this breakdown as part of their process. But they didnt.
The investigator explained that shed normally consider Mr Ss bank statements from just 
before the loan was approved to see that, if AvantCredit had asked for further information, 
whether it wouldve changed their decision to lend. But Mr S had only been able to provide 
statements that dont give any breakdown of his income or expenditure.
So the investigator said that, based on the information AvantCredit had at the time, and with 
nothing to show that the information Mr S had provided was incorrect; AvantCredit made a 
fair and reasonable lending decision. And she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
After receiving the investigators view, Mr S provided more bank statements. The 
investigator considered these and said they show he had sufficient disposable income each 
month to afford the loan. So she thought that, if AvantCredit had seen these, it would still 
have been fair for them to agree the loan.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said he was at the limit with eight different credit 
cards at the time he applied for the loan with AvantCredit, and he had lots of defaults. So 
hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents AvantCredit checked at the time they approved Mr Ss loan. Hed 
declared a net monthly income of £1,800 and a total monthly expenditure of £900. 
AvantCredit did a credit search which verified the declared income. This also showed that Mr 
S owed a total of £10,299 on his credit agreements (six credit cards and one loan), and that 
his credit card balance to limit ratio had reduced (he owed less money than he had 3-months 
earlier). And he didnt have any short-term high interest payday loans.
The credit search showed Mr S had historic defaults, but itd been 42 months since his last 
account defaulted. Different lenders have different criteria, so I wouldnt expect AvantCredit 
to automatically decline the application due to the historic defaults. But I would expect them 
to take these into consideration when making their overall lending decision. And I havent 
seen anything that shows me they didnt.
Mr S has said that he was over the limit with eight different credit cards at the time of his 
application, and that he had lots of defaults. But the credit search doesnt show this was the 
case, and I havent seen that Mr S provided AvantCredit with anything that would show he 
was in financial difficulties at the time. So I cant say AvantCredit did anything wrong by not 
taking into consideration facts they were unaware of at the time.
Based on the information Mr S provided, he had sufficient disposable income (£900 a 
month) to comfortably afford the loan hed applied for. The credit search provided some 
verification of his income. And it would be possible to estimate what he was paying for his 
ongoing credit commitments. 
But, because the loan payment wasnt known, it wasnt possible for AvantCredit to do an 
accurate income and expenditure calculation. So Im in agreement with the investigator that 
they shouldve done some additional checks  looked at Mr Ss bank statements for the 
period immediately before the loan was applied for, so as to validate the income and 
expenditure figures hed provided. 
As part of the investigation process, Mr S has provided bank statements for two different 
accounts. For the first account, these cover the period 1 December 2014 to 27 February 
2015. But this account doesnt show any income or expenditure.
Mr S has provided most of the bank statements for his second bank, covering the period 
October 2014 to May 2015. But, in making my decision, Ive only considered the three-
months immediately before AvantCredit approved the loan. This is because, if AvantCredit 
had asked for statements at the time, this is all Id expect them to request and consider.These bank statements only show four credit cards, with total payments of around £300 
each month for these. There are also two catalogue accounts, but these dont seem to be 
used on a regular basis. So, based on what Ive seen, the £900 total monthly expenditure 
declared by Mr S on his application form would seem to cover the credit commitments 
showing on his bank statements, as well as other expenditure such as housing, council tax, 
utility bills etc. So Im satisfied its reasonable to use this figure in the calculations.
The bank statements also show Mr S was paid weekly, anything between £166 and £396. 
Based on what Ive seen, his weekly average net income is £323  the equivalent of £1,400 
a month. This is less than the £1,800 Mr S declared. Based on a £1,400 monthly income, 
with £900 monthly expenditure, Mr S would be left with £500 a month from which to pay the 
AvantCredit loan of £196. So Im satisfied that the loan was affordable at the time Mr S 
applied for it. And Ive also noted that he maintained payments from March 2015 until August 
2016. And I think this also shows me the loan was affordable at the point it was approved.
So, while I agree that AvantCredit shouldve done some additional checks when they 
approved the loan, had they done so these wouldve shown the loan to still be affordable. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that AvantCredit made a fair lending decision at the time and I 
wont be asking them to refund any payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman