DRN-2342819
The complaint
Ms M has complained, on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr R, that Mr R was mis-
sold an income protection insurance policy by Eunisure Limited.
What happened
Mr R raced motorbikes. In 2016, during a race meeting, an adviser from Eunisure sold Mr R 
an income protection insurance policy. The policy would pay a regular benefit in the event 
that Mr R became unable to work due to illness or injury.
In 2019, Mr R sadly died in an accident.
Ms M subsequently complained on behalf of her late husbands estate that the policy had 
been mis-sold. She considered it had been wrong for Eunisure to approach Mr R at a race 
meeting because he would have been focused on his event and thus would have been 
unable to give proper consideration to the recommended policy. She considered that Mr R, 
whom she said had been injured several times since taking out the policy but had never 
made a claim, was unaware of the type of policy he had taken out and had believed it to be 
life assurance. She thought that Eunisure should make a goodwill financial gesture to help 
secure the future for Mr Rs surviving family.
Eunisure didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that the sale had been carried out 
properly.
Ms M was unhappy at Eunisures response. On behalf of her late husbands estate, she 
referred the complaint to us. She provided evidence to show the owners of the race circuit 
didnt allow insurance sales to take place on its property. She noted that Mr Rs previous 
injuries had not been disclosed on the application form which she believed showed it had 
been completed by the adviser and not her late husband. She considered this non-
disclosure meant he would not have been entitled to any benefit under the policy even if he 
had tried to make a claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, 
Eunisure had not been shown to have done anything wrong.
Ms M, on behalf of her late husbands estate, didnt accept the investigators findings. She 
maintained that the situation of the sale meant that Mr R had been pressured into taking out 
the policy without having a chance to properly consider the matter. She also said that the 
adviser had since used Mr Rs name to try and sell a policy to another racer.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is disagreement over whether the adviser should have been allowed to sell insurance 
policies at the race meeting. Ms M has provided an email from the race circuit owners saying 
that they did not allow this and would ask salesmen to leave the venue if they were found to 
be carrying out business. The adviser, however, says that he and others were granted 
permission by the gate staff to sell their policies and that there is no clear indication on the 
circuits website or at the site entrance to say such sales activity is prohibited. In the end, I 
have no reasonable grounds for concluding that the adviser was deliberately acting against 
rules put in place by the circuits owners but, even if he was, I consider this would be a 
matter between the owners and the adviser; it would not invalidate the sale. 
The adviser says that Mr R approached him with a request for advice on insurance. Ms M 
disputes that this would have happened. I have no reasonable grounds for concluding the 
adviser is being untruthful but in any case I dont consider it necessarily matters as to who 
made the initial approach. The important thing is whether the sale thereafter was carried out 
properly.
The adviser carried out a fact find which showed Mr R was interested in protecting his 
income in the event of illness or injury; he was not interested in taking out life assurance. 
After gathering information about Mr Rs circumstances, the adviser recommended he take 
out an income protection insurance policy to provide a benefit of £1,500 a month. Im 
satisfied that this was a suitable recommendation for Mr R.
Ms M has pointed out that the application for the policy was inaccurate because it did not 
disclose previous injuries suffered by Mr R. She says that Mr R would certainly have 
disclosed these injuries and she therefore believes the form was completed by the adviser 
without being seen by Mr R. I cant explain why the previous injuries were not disclosed but 
Im satisfied that Mr R signed the application form to confirm the information was correct. 
I therefore consider that any non-disclosure was his responsibility; I cant reasonably say 
that the adviser was at fault. I should point out that the fact that previous injuries were not 
disclosed does not necessarily mean that Mr R would have been unable to make a 
successful claim in respect of a new injury.
A week or so later, the insurer wrote directly to Mr R enclosing details of his policy. The 
adviser also wrote to Mr R confirming details of his recommendation. I consider that Mr R 
had the opportunity to review this information and would have expected him to contact either 
the insurer or the adviser if he was unsure about or unhappy with the policy he had taken 
out.
Ms M has objected to the adviser using her late husbands name to sell insurance to another 
racer. The adviser has said that Mr Rs name would naturally come up among discussions 
with the racing community and when this had happened he may have confirmed that Mr R 
had been a client of his. However, he said that he hadnt actively used Mr Rs name to 
promote his business. I consider the advisers explanation is plausible and, while I fully 
understand Ms Ms distaste towards the adviser mentioning Mr R, I dont consider there is 
any action I can reasonably take.
Overall, I consider the evidence indicates that the adviser recommended a suitable policy 
and, despite the setting for the sale, Mr R was able to make an informed decision to accept 
this recommendation. I have deep sympathy for Ms M and the family Mr R left behind 
following his tragic accident but in respect of the sale of the policy I dont consider that 
Eunisure has been shown to be at fault.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr R, to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman