DRN-3618917
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim on their home 
insurance.
Mr and Mrs W have been represented by their son throughout this complaint. However for 
ease of reading Ive just referred to Mr and Mrs W. But all references include the actions of 
their representative. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had home insurance with Ageas. In August 2020 they made a claim after a 
ceiling collapsed and let water into the property following some bad weather. Ageas sent out 
an expert who concluded the damage was due to dislodged tiles on the roof that had let 
water in. It eventually declined the claim for the damaged roof as it said the damage was due 
to wear and tear and not because of a storm event. However it said the internal damage 
would be covered under the accidental damage cover in the policy and offered a cash 
settlement for this.
However Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this. They declined the offer and made a 
complaint. Ageas maintained its position on the claim, but offered £150 compensation to 
make up for poor service it had provided.
Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was fair as they said there was a big storm in the days leading 
up to the damage to the roof and thought this was the cause. They brought the complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that there had been a named storm in the area of Mr and Mrs Ws property at the time 
of the damage so she was satisfied thered been a storm event. And she thought the 
damage was caused by the storm. So thought cover should be provided under the policy. 
She said Ageas should pay for the repair and drying costs covered under the policy and pay 
8% interest on these amounts to make up for the delay in settling the claim. She also 
thought Ageas should pay a total of £500 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
Mr and Mrs W accepted this outcome. However Ageas didnt. It said that it didnt agree the 
weather conditions in the area of the property met those required for a storm. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether an insurer acted fairly by declining a claim for storm damage, we 
consider three questions. Firstly, whether there is evidence there were storm conditions at 
the time the damage was caused. Next, whether the damage is consistent with storm 
damage and lastly whether the storm was the main reason for the damage. If were satisfied 
that the answer to all three questions is yes then we would say the insurer wasnt fair to 
decline the claim under storm cover. 
To consider the first question, I have looked at weather reports in the days leading up to the 
damage. This was around 28 August 2020. So Ive checked weather reports from around 
this time. Although there were stronger winds reported in the area of the property on this day 
and a few days before, these only reached around 41mph. At this service we would usually 
only consider speeds over around 47mph to constitute a storm. 
However Mr and Mrs W have said there were weather warnings in place at the time due to 
two named storms that affected most parts of the UK, including the area of the property. Ive 
looked at the media reports from national and local newspapers at the time and I can see 
there was a sustained period of severe bad weather across the UK. As well as specifically in 
the area Mr and Mrs W live. So while we wouldnt usually consider the wind speeds great 
enough to constitute a storm, I agree there was a period of bad weather during that time that 
was widely reported as causing heavy rain and wind. So I am satisfied there was weather 
around the time of the damage that constituted a storm.
I have therefore moved on to consider the next question  whether the damage is consistent 
with storm damage. Ive looked at the reports provided from both sides and it seems the 
internal damage was caused by tiles dislodging from the roof. This is damage that is 
common when there is a storm, so Im satisfied that its consistent with storm damage. 
The final question I need to consider is whether it was the storm that was the main cause of 
the damage. Sometimes, while a storm may appear to cause damage to a property, it is 
actually only highlighting damage that already existed. For example where roof tiles have 
been poorly maintained, theyd be very easily impacted by a storm. So in that case wed say 
the main cause was the poor maintenance and not the storm.
Ive looked at both reports to determine the most likely root cause of the damage. While 
Ageas report concludes that the damage is due to wear and tear, both reports comment that 
the roof is in a generally good condition apart from the recent damage. Further, Ageas 
conclude that the cause is wear and tear because the felt that sits below the roof was torn 
with parts missing. However from the photos and comments, it seems the rest of the felt 
below the roof is in tact and in good condition. The tearing of the felt is in line with what Id 
expect to see where water has entered the building and has been gathering in that area, 
before breaking through the ceiling. So I dont agree this shows there were underlying 
problems or that the damage was due to wear and tear. 
Based on this, I think its more likely that the storm was the main cause of the damage to the 
roof and the felt lining below, rather than wear and tear. Therefore as I am persuaded the 
answer to all three questions is yes, I dont think Ageas has acted fairly by declining Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim. 
Putting things right
For this reason, I agree with our investigator that Ageas should cover Mr and Mrs Ws costs 
for the repairs to the roof and the damage caused by the water. This includes drying costs 
and any other claim related damage to the building and contents of the property. I also agree that it should pay 8% interest on the amount paid from the date of the original 
claim decision, until the date the claim is settled, to make up for the time Mr and Mrs W have 
been without the funds they are entitled to under the policy. This should exclude the amount 
offered under the accidental damage claim, as this was originally turned down by Mr and 
Mrs W so it wouldnt be fair to say theyve been unfairly deprived of these funds. 
I have also considered the impact the claim, and its original decline, has had on Mr and Mrs 
W. Theyve explained that they both suffer from medical conditions that require significant 
levels of care and medical support. And theyve said that the guest bedroom, that was 
affected by the storm, was where they kept their medical supplies and was where there son 
would sleep when he stayed over to care for them. The claim was originally made two years 
ago. And Mr and Mrs W have had to go to significant lengths in that time to provide evidence 
to prove their claim, while dealing with the damage that had been caused. From their 
account, I understand this has been both distressing and inconvenient. For these reasons I 
agree with our investigator that Ageas should pay an additional £350 compensation on top of 
what theyve already offered. Bringing the total to £500.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to:
Cover Mr and Mrs Ws claim for storm damage and pay costs for repairs to the damaged 
roof, buildings and contents and drying costs, inline with the remaining policy terms and 
limits.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount, with the exception of the amount offered for the 
internal damage that was declined, this should be paid without interest added.
Pay a total of £500 compensation, including the £150 already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman