DRN-3693332
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by True Bearing Ltd (True Bearing), 
trading as True Bearing Chartered Financial Planners, to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension (PP) and withdraw 
the full amount.
What happened
Mr H contacted True Bearing for pension advice in 2016, after first approaching it in early 
2015. A fact find was completed to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives at the time, including an assessment of his attitude to risk. While this was deemed 
to be high True Bearing noted Mr H didnt plan to invest his funds due to his circumstances 
and that he had a very limited capacity for loss, so it said no investment risk was tolerable.  
At the time it was noted that Mr H was aged 54, with one dependent child who lived abroad 
with his ex-wife. It said Mr Hs mother lived with him and hed been her full-time carer since 
2009. And, while he was considering part-time self-employment, he received income support 
and carers allowance, as well as £68 per month after tax from a pension with a previous 
employer. The total monthly household income, including his mothers, was £1,788 with 
monthly expenditure of around £3,317, when including mortgage payments and £1,000 per 
month in minimum credit card payments. 
The fact find said Mr H lived in a property he owned, worth around £150,000 with three 
outstanding mortgages totalling £96,000. Under what was termed hard debt it said Mr Hs 
first mortgage, which cost £870 per month, was in £8,700 arrears with a court order for him 
to clear this by June 2016. And that his second and third mortgages were £4,000 in arrears, 
with a court order to clear the full balance of £38,000 by same date. It also said Mr H owed 
around £33,000 on credit cards but, following advice from two debt charities, hed negotiated 
to settle these for around £25,000. And that Mr H owed £45,000 to his sons for loans theyd 
taken out for him. In relation to what was noted as soft debts, it said Mr H had council tax 
arrears that hed recently been to court about, he was up to his and his mothers overdraft 
limits totalling £2,000 and that he owed family members a further £100,000. 
Mr H had a preserved final salary pension projected to pay a yearly pension of £28,068 from 
age 65. If Mr H wanted to retire from this at age 55 hed receive a reduced pension of £9,870 
a year with tax-free cash (TFC) of £65,804. Prior to the transfer, Mr Hs DB scheme had a 
transfer value of £431,789.84. 
In February 2016, True Bearing advised Mr H to transfer his DB pension benefits into a PP. 
The suitability report said this was because the TFC from his DB scheme wouldnt clear his 
mortgages, which he cant service even with the additional income from this. Nor would it 
cover his credit cards, repay his sons or his mothers overdraft and it would only be a short 
time before Mr H couldnt service his debts again. True Bearing said transferring to a PP 
would allow Mr H to access his entire fund within a year. And that while some of this would 
be taxed at the highest rate, it would allow him to repay his debt, leave a small emergency 
fund and begin some self-employment. It said Mr H would rather pay this tax to allow him to 
repay his eldest son in particular. And he felt he had no choice but to access all the money.  
Mr H accepted True Bearings advice, so his DB scheme benefits were transferred to his 
new PP shortly after and Mr H says that within a year hed accessed and spent the 
maximum TFC of £105,994 and his remaining fund. 
In 2021, Mr H complained to True Bearing about its transfer advice saying, in summary, that 
he was vulnerable at the time as hed had a heart attack, gotten divorced from his first wife, 
separated from his second and had a large amount of debt that caused him to panic. He said 
True Bearing didnt sufficiently consider alternatives, such as early ill-health retirement or 
bankruptcy. He said he could have rented a house and repaid family debts still by working or 
with the TFC when later accessing his DB scheme. Mr H said True Bearing discounted early 
ill-health retirement as his heart attack occurred years ago, but then still assumed he had a 
shortened life expectancy such that a lump sum would be more beneficial than an income. 
And that it didnt include a plan for repairing his retirement provision  while it said hed add 
to his pot through future earnings it contradicted this by saying hed continue to care for his 
mother. Mr H also said True Bearing failed to explore withdrawing funds from the PP over a 
few years rather than just one, when the TFC would have covered the debt he immediately 
needed to repay, which meant he paid significantly more tax.
True Bearing didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said, in summary, that it discussed 
bankruptcy with Mr H but he discounted it. It said the transfer would have allowed Mr H to 
clear all his debts. And it advised he seek debt counselling so that he didnt fall back into a 
debt cycle. But that Mr H has still gone on to re-mortgage his property again in 2017 and 
became subject to a county-court judgment in 2018. It also said Mr H understood he would 
be subject to more tax by drawing down his entire fund. And that hed still have done this 
even if it had advised him to do so over a longer period. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service adding, in summary, that he wasnt able to work 
until recently after his mother sadly passed away. She had a stroke in August 2016 and 
couldnt walk, so the house needed modifications and within around a year of the transfer 
hed spent his fund on this, living expenses and some debt repayments. Mr H said he might 
have been able to negotiate payments on his credit cards rather than settling these. And that 
if his son defaulted on his loan it might have impacted his career, but there was no reason to 
think he might and Mr H can now see he didnt need to repay this from his pension. Mr H 
said his family would have shown forbearance. And that, while he previously worked in 
taxation, this wasnt in pensions and ended in 2009. 
One of our Investigators didnt uphold the complaint. She said that while taking benefits from 
Mr Hs DB scheme would have allowed him to pay off his court orders, hed still have had 
outstanding debt and his income wouldnt have met his outgoings, which meant his position 
wouldnt have been sustainable and he didnt have a fixed income from employment at the 
time. She said Mr H ought to have been advised to withdraw his PP funds over more than 
one tax year, but felt the modifications needed to his home meant hed have used his 
pension to do this anyway. 
Mr H disagreed saying, in summary, that the TFC from his DB scheme would have covered 
the arrears on his first mortgage, along with his council tax arrears and some credit card 
balances. He said he could have applied to the court to change his proposal to clear his 
other mortgages and his remaining debts could have been repaid over a longer time. He 
said this alongside the income from his DB scheme would have meant he would have only 
had a monthly shortfall of around £200, which he could have covered with part time work. 
And that his state pension would have later supplemented this.   
Mr H also said True Bearing didnt tell him to seek professional bankruptcy advice. He said 
that being bankrupt wouldnt have prevented him from later making gifts to his family if he felt obliged to. And he understands his pension could be ring-fenced in bankruptcy. He also said 
that due to his vulnerability he reacted to his circumstances and struggled to identify the best 
course of action, which True Bearing ought to have taken into account. And that at no point 
did it ask for a family member to attend any of their meetings in the way it has said it did.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Bearings actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically
relate to a DB transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, True Bearing 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate this was in Mr Hs best 
interests. 
Having carefully considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Im not asking True 
Bearing to do anything for largely the same reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
True Bearing hasnt suggested the transfer was likely to result in higher retirement benefits 
for Mr H, rather that it was suitable for him to do so to meet his other objectives. The 
suitability report said the results of the Transfer Value Analysis that True Bearing carried out 
to see what Mr Hs PP would need to achieve to match the DB scheme benefits he was 
giving up were largely academic. And that if Mr H wasnt in his current position then 
maintaining the DB scheme in its current format would be in his best interest. In which case, 
as True Bearing seems to accept Mr H was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of 
transferring from his DB scheme, due to the guaranteed benefits he was giving up, I havent 
considered this any further. Instead Ive focused on whether it was right for True Bearing to 
recommend the transfer in spite of this for other reasons. It isnt in dispute that Mr H couldnt maintain the position he was in at the time without taking 
some action due to his outstanding debts and because his household expenses were 
significantly higher than the income. And, having considered all the information and thought 
very carefully about this, I dont think True Bearings advice for Mr H to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits to a PP was unsuitable in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
If Mr H took his DB scheme benefits early I think he could have repaid the arrears on his first 
mortgage, along with the full balance on his second and third mortgages. Mr H says he could 
have applied to just repay the arrears on these instead, but I can see the court order was for 
the full balance. Mr H has said he would also have been able to settle his council tax arrears, 
although its unclear to me how much these were. And it seems he could also have repaid 
around half of what hed negotiated to pay his credit card providers, easing some of the 
financial pressure caused by the minimum payments, interest and late payment charges. 
This would have reduced Mr Hs household expenses and hed have had an additional 
income of around £800 per month after tax from his DB scheme to help towards these. And 
Mr H says this would have meant that, after accounting for the impact on his benefits, hed 
only have had a shortfall of around £200 per month to meet his expenses, which I appreciate 
hes said he could have met with part time work. 
But the suitability report from the time says Mr H was concerned that hed continue to get 
into further debt. And neither the TFC nor the additional income from his DB scheme would 
have allowed Mr H to repay his son either in full, in part or gradually. Ive taken into account 
that Mr H says he was vulnerable and his debts were causing him to panic when he didnt 
really need to repay his son. But it appears the forbearance his family has since shown is 
due to his funds being needed elsewhere due to a drastic change in his mothers health 
following the transfer. And, in any case, I have to consider the circumstances Mr H was in at 
the time of the advice. And its clear to me Mr H felt it was pressing to repay his son, even if 
he now feels otherwise, and that he was motivated to access his pension fund as he had no 
other means to do so. 
Mr H actively approached True Bearing again in early 2016, seemingly after receipt of a new 
transfer value from his DB scheme which explained pensions freedoms had been introduced 
and which hed written Action on. And, when doing so, Mr H told True Bearing he wanted to 
transfer his DB scheme due to extreme financial difficulties, that he was aware of the 
significant disadvantages but his difficulties were such that he had no sensible options and 
urgent action was needed. The suitability report and notes from the time say Mr H needed to 
repay his son, as he desperately needed to buy a house and because his career depended 
on being financially solvent. It said Mr Hs goal was to clear his most pressing debts, 
including those to his eldest son in particular to secure his job role. And that Mr Hs son only 
lent him money on the basis he could vest his DB scheme at 55 to repay this or, in more 
recent times, access his entire pot under new pension freedoms. So I think Mr H felt that it 
was pressing to repay his son at the time and that hed always planned to access his 
pension to do so.   
While transferring to a PP and taking TFC from this in the way Mr H did wouldnt have 
covered all that he owed to his family, it would have given him just under £106,000 which 
was significantly more than he could access from his DB scheme. This would have met his 
objective of covering all of his personal debts, as well as most of the more pressing debt he 
owed to his son. And Mr H could have then drawdown from his PP in a tax efficient way over 
the following years to repay the rest. I think that wouldve been a suitable recommendation in 
the circumstances  although I recognise True Bearing actually recommended Mr H take the 
full pension in cash, despite the large tax bill that created. However, I dont think that makes 
a difference to the outcome here, and Ill return to this point later.Mr H has said True Bearing didnt consider bankruptcy or taking early ill-health retirement. 
Even if True Bearing could have considered the latter in more depth, early ill-health 
retirement doesnt appear to have been an option as Mr Hs since told us hes in very good 
health, so I dont intend to comment on this any further. In relation to bankruptcy, the 
suitability report says Mr H was starting to begin part-time work but couldnt do so in the 
midst of his financial problems. And that if he couldnt solve these by the deadline in the 
court orders then hed go bankrupt, but he felt that losing his house, uprooting his mother 
and having to default on his debts to his sons by doing so (as theyd be low on the list of 
creditors) would be too mentally damaging for him. So I think True Bearing considered 
bankruptcy as an alternative option for Mr H, but discounted this in light of his circumstances 
and because Mr H had already sought debt advice from two different organisations. And, in 
any case, it seems Mr H has since told us that while he might have been better declaring 
bankruptcy, he cant say he would have done that at the time. 
In summary, for the above reasons, I think True Bearings advice for Mr H to transfer from 
his DB to a PP was suitable in light of his objectives and circumstances at the time. 
However, as Ive said above, this doesnt mean there werent flaws in True Bearings advice. 
I think its recommendation for Mr H to take his entire pension wouldve meant hed be 
subject to a lot more tax. While I can see True Bearing told Mr H this would be the case and 
set out how much tax hed likely be charged, I think it ought to have clearly advised him to 
access his pension more gradually in a tax efficient way. Not least because while Mr H had 
worked in taxation, this was several years before and in a different area of expertise, so Im 
not persuaded he fully understood the tax implications of taking his entire fund in one year. 
That being said, even if True Bearing had given Mr H what I think would have been suitable 
advice to drawdown his remaining pension fund in a tax efficient way, I dont think hed be in 
a different position now. I say this because Mr Hs mothers health deteriorated shortly after 
the advice, which led to increased living expenses. Mr H also carried out home renovations 
which he said were necessary due to her health. So even if True Bearing had advised Mr H 
not to take his pension in one go, its evident that he did because it was the only source of 
capital available to him with which he could carry out the renovations. Im not persuaded he 
had any other means of securing the capital to do so given his debts and court orders.
So, I dont think a suitable recommendation from True Bearing wouldve stopped Mr H from 
withdrawing all of his pension. Thats because I think it was the only option Mr H had and 
True Bearing couldnt have prevented him from doing this, having recommended the transfer 
(which I think was suitable advice). And I have to have regard to what actually happened 
here when determining whether True Bearings advice has caused Mr H a loss.   
For these reasons, while I recognise Mr H will be very disappointed, Im not asking          
True Bearing to do anything to put things right here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not asking True Bearing Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman