DRN-2695255
The complaint
Ms D is seeking to recover about £16,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from
her bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 March 2021. To summarise, I was
minded not to uphold the complaint  so I didnt require HSBC to refund either of the two 
payments that Ms D disputes, nor award her compensation.
In short, it was my judgment that Ms D had authorised both of these disputed transactions  
and whilst HSBC probably could and should have intervened, the evidence indicated that 
this would probably have made no difference. 
As I saw it, it was more likely than not that (even with appropriate probing and questioning 
from the bank) Ms D wouldve still gone ahead with sending both of the payments  
therefore HSBC did not cause her loss. 
I was satisfied that, when Ms D made HSBC aware that shed been the victim of a scam, the 
bank took action without undue delay, notifying the receiving bank the same day  which is 
what I wouldve expected it to do. And it was just unfortunate that, by the time HSBC had 
contacted this bank, the money had already been removed from the receiving account. 
So, taking everything into consideration, I did not find it fair or reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse what was left unrecovered from the total amount Ms D paid. And under those 
circumstances, I was also minded not to require the bank to award any compensation. 
When concluding this, I was conscious that it was ultimately the callous acts of the 
fraudsters that were to blame for Ms Ds loss.
Responses to the provisional decision
Ms D informed our service that she doesnt accept my provisional findings  but didnt 
provide any further evidence for consideration. 
HSBC did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Ms D is unhappy with my provisional findings. However, given that 
neither of the parties has submitted any further substantial evidence for consideration, and 
having reconsidered all of the arguments and information before me, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman