DRN-3371442
The complaint
Mr J complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined two claims on his pet insurance 
policy as they were below the policy excess.
What happened
Mr J had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. There was an excess on the 
policy of £99 per year if any claims were made. And Mr J made two small claims of around 
£15 and £50 during the year. Mr J said both claims were rejected because they were below 
the excess. But he feels his claims should add up towards the total excess so that any future 
claims would be paid in full. 
When Mr J spoke to Great Lakes he was told that any claims below the excess wouldnt be 
processed. Mr J says thats not mentioned in any of the documentation. And he doesnt think 
Great Lakes should be able to deduct the full excess from any future claims. So he wants 
clearer guidance issuing by the insurer.
Great Lakes said the policy documents and website explained the excess would be 
deducted in the event of a successful claim. For a claim to be successful when an excess 
hadnt yet been deducted that policy year, it would need to be above the policy excess so it 
could be deducted in full. As the two amounts claimed for where below the excess, Great 
Lakes had been unable to deduct the full excess from either amount claimed. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the information provided by Mr J and Great 
Lakes. And she felt the documentation said Great Lakes would deduct the excess from the 
amount it paid  so if it couldnt pay anything it couldnt deduct the excess. And our 
investigator felt itd correctly declined the smaller claims.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. It didnt say anywhere that claims below the excess 
amount wouldnt be accepted. And he doesnt feel he was given enough clear information. 
So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulators rules expect insurers to handle claims fairly and promptly. And they shouldnt 
turn down claims unnecessarily. 
So Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy to see whether Great 
Lakes has acted fairly towards Mr J.
The policy doesnt define what an excess is. But I think its commonly accepted that the 
policyholder will normally have to pay the first part of any claim. And the amount the 
policyholder will have to pay in the event of a successful claim is known as the excess. 
Mr J bought the pet insurance policy on a non-advisory basis. So Id expect the seller to 
make sure Mr J had enough information to make a decision about whether or not to 
purchase the policy. And Id expect that information to be fair and not misleading. 
Mr J says it isnt made clear that claims below the excess wont be accepted. He feels they 
should be accepted and accumulated towards the annual access even if there isnt anything 
to pay after the excess deduction. 
I can see the policy covers new and recurring conditions with a £15000 claim limit each year. 
This limit is reset each year that the policy is renewed. The document also states the excess 
is set at £99 per year plus 0% of claims. 
When Mr J submitted a claim for less than the £99 excess there simply wasnt anything left 
for Great Lakes to pay out. And that wouldve been the same situation when Mr J submitted 
a second claim for less than the excess. 
For the claim to be successful it would need to be for an amount that was greater than the 
policy excess. If there was nothing left to pay after Mr J had paid the first part (the excess) 
then there was no claim to make on the insurance policy.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claims because they were 
below the excess limit. And if the claims were declined, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to disregard them when determining if the annual excess limit had been used. 
The annual excess would only be used if a claim was for more than the excess amount. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed with this outcome. And I appreciate he doesnt feel the 
excess procedure was properly explained when he took out the policy. But I hope Ive 
explained why Ive made this decision. And why I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman