DRN-3484938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost when they 
fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations and general banking terms, HSBC has 
a duty to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Although 
she was scammed, its not in dispute that Mrs S authorised the payments. So the 
starting position is that she and Mr S (in relation to those made from their joint 
account) are liable for them. 
I appreciate the points Mrs S has raised about why she thinks HSBC should have 
intervened with some of these payments. However, Im also conscious that there 
were several steps between Mrs S making these payments from her HSBC accounts 
 and those funds being lost to the scammers (D). The payments went from HSBC to 
a Binance account Mrs S held. From there, she transferred money into her Exodus 
wallet, and then onto D. 
I appreciate that Mrs S set up the Binance and Exodus accounts on Ds instruction. 
But its clear she had knowledge of, and control over, these accounts. And theres no 
suggestion that Binance or Exodus were complicit in the scam.
Ive thought carefully about whether its fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for 
Mr and Mrs Ss loss. In the circumstances, I dont think it is. Thats because there 
were several new, intervening acts between the payments HSBC processed and the 
loss incurred. Namely, that the funds were transferred through multiple accounts 
Mrs S held before being lost to the scammers. She and Mr S wouldnt have suffered 
a loss but for the further payments she made to Exodus  and then D. 
In broad terms, our services role is to redress consumers for reasonably foreseeable 
losses theyve suffered which were caused by businesses errors. Here, I consider 
the loss incurred too remote from any acts or omissions by HSBC in processing 
these payments. And so I cant fairly hold it liable for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman