DRN-1552320
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr K says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr K applied for his credit card by post in his own time, without any involvement or pressure 
from a salesperson. His application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional features. It 
gave a brief overview of what the policy was for and what it cost. Then there were two tick 
boxes to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. The box to buy PPI was 
ticked, the box to reject it was left blank, and Mr K signed the form to confirm his choices. So 
I think that Capital One made it clear Mr K didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to 
take it  though I can understand why he might not remember this after so many years.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr K chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was significantly affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. 
It had a normal deferral period, which I do not think was onerous as the cover was there for 
long-term sickness or unemployment, and the deferral period was short enough that Mr K 
would not have got into any significant arrears before the PPI kicked in. And Mr K didnt have 
any other protection in place. So the policy would have been useful for Mr K in case 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about PPI was likely to have 
put him off taking it out.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Capital One has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
him, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Capital One has to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back to Mr K any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
That means Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr K the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr K 
8%* simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this. I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman