DRN-3211790
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt provide the same overdraft facility when he 
converted his joint account to a sole account.
What happened
Mr S said he was given a court order as part of his divorce that ordered him to take full 
responsibility for the joint account overdraft of £30,000. Mr S said he asked HSBC to apply 
the overdraft facility on conversion from the joint account to a sole account. But they didnt 
agree. He complained to HSBC.
HSBC said that on conversion to a sole account Mr S didnt meet their lending criteria for the 
overdraft facility he requested. They suggested he went to his branch to discuss a reduction 
plan for the outstanding overdraft from his joint account. Mr S said hed already spent four 
hours in his branch and had already put forward a proposal for reducing the overdraft.
After further discussion Mr S said hed agreed to paying £15,000 to reduce his overdraft, and 
monthly repayments to settle the remaining amount. But he wasnt happy about the delays 
and difficulties hed experienced. He referred his complaint to us. HSBC offered Mr S £100 
to compensate for the trouble and upset caused to him.
Our investigator said that it wasnt for us to consider HSBCs lending criteria. But there had 
been unnecessary delay in reaching a resolution which had caused Mr S some trouble and 
upset. And the agreed resolution was similar to a proposal put forward by Mr S earlier in the 
process. He said HSBCs offer wasnt enough for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S and 
he asked them to pay Mr S £250 to compensate him.
Mr S didnt agree, he asked for his overdraft facility to be reinstated, an apology from HSBC. 
And for HSBC to write and publish a process for handling similar issues. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr S but, having done so, I find that I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr S has asked that HSBC write and publish a process for situations such as his. I can 
completely understand why Mr S was frustrated when hed been ordered by a court to 
handle the £30,000 overdraft. And that he felt HSBC werent helping him in trying to sort the 
situation out. I understand that Mr S would like HSBC to change the way they work so this 
doesnt happen to him or anyone else again. But I should first explain that Im not able to 
change the way HSBC work in general. That would be for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) who regulate banks and their processes, and who look at things 
more generally. My role is to resolve individual complaints, so Ive thought carefully about 
whats happened here. 
In February 2021, Mr S asked HSBC for the same overdraft facility when he was converting 
his joint account to a sole account. Mr S said hed been a customer of HSBCs for over 30 
years. And that HSBC hadnt brought to his attention any concerns about the joint account 
overdraft facility. So, I can understand his disappointment when HSBC didnt simply transfer 
the facility but declined his overdraft request on conversion to a sole account.
Most lenders make it clear in the terms and conditions that overdrafts are for short term 
emergency borrowing needs, as this is often an expensive form of credit, particularly where 
the account remains overdrawn for significant periods of time. Overdrafts arent intended for, 
or an appropriate means of, long term borrowing. And any overdraft is repayable on 
demand. 
So, when Mr S requested the same overdraft, Id expect HSBC as a responsible lending to 
consider whether the borrowing was affordable and sustainable for him. And this would 
depend on several factors such as financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to 
the amount, type and cost of credit. As an overdraft is a form of short-term lending, Id 
expect HSBC to make sure they didnt lend irresponsibly. I can see HSBC considered the 
overdraft balance as being at a high level -  £30,000, and that it had been at this level for 
around 12 months. As, HSBC could at any time ask Mr S to repay the full overdraft balance 
they considered the amount and timeframe that would be needed to clear the overdraft 
balance as being too high. So, the overdraft facility was declined. 
I can see at this time Mr S proposed paying £15,000 to reduce the outstanding overdraft 
amount, he was told his proposal would be considered.  And this is where I think Mr S felt let 
down by HSBC. Hed made it clear that hed to cover the £30,000 overdraft balance as part 
of his divorce and hed a court order to this effect that needed to be complied with within 10 
days. This must have been a very stressful time for him. And I can see from HSBCs records 
that they knew about the court order. I can also see from their records that Mr S didnt get a 
single point of contact but was referred to a variety of departments, who he said werent able 
to help. So, I can understand how frustrating and worrying this would have been for Mr S.
It wasnt until mid-March 2021 after Mr S continued to try to get the matter resolved that his 
situation was progressed, and a solution offered. This being for him to pay off £15,000 of the 
overdraft, retain the remainder as an overdraft but with an agreed repayment plan for 
settlement. A not too dissimilar option to the one Mr S suggested  a month earlier. 
I know Mr S would like his original overdraft facility reinstated but I dont think HSBC has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the actions they have taken, as I think they were acting as 
a responsible lender. But I do think they could have made the situation less stressful for Mr S 
by understanding his specific needs and referring him to the right area.
I know Mr S isnt looking for a monetary compensation but wants to prevent anyone else 
being put into this position. But the delays and stress Mr S experienced did cause him 
trouble and upset so I agree with our investigator that HSBC should pay Mr S £250 for this. 
And I hope HSBC will have learned something from Mr S difficulties going forward.  My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr S £250 for trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman