DRN-1994395
The complaint
Mr G complains that HFC Bank Limited has not fairly compensated him for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr G complained to HFC about a PPI policy attached to a loan. Initially HFC said it could not 
find the loan or PPI. Mr G then sent HFC a statement from July 2000 which showed he held 
a loan with account number ending 7959. The statement showed he paid £14.33 for a PPI 
policy.
In August 2019 HFC wrote to Mr G agreeing to uphold his complaint.
In its letter HFC offered Mr G £282.61 (net of tax). HFC said Mr G had paid a total of 
£115.20 in PPI premiums between May 2000 and January 2001.
Mr G remained unhappy with HFCs offer. He said he recalled paying the loan for longer and 
paying more for PPI. He said the loan was for £5,000 and he sent in some paying in slips 
from 1996.
An adjudicator from this service thought HFCs offer was fair.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a business has mis-sold PPI wed expect the business to return the consumer (as far 
as is possible)  to the financial position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold.
To do this Id expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums paid by the consumer 
together with any interest incurred because of the PPI. Id also expect the business to pay 
compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time the consumer has been out of 
pocket.
In this case HFC doesnt hold full, detailed records of the loan. That isnt surprising as the 
account was opened and closed many years ago and I wouldnt expect a business to hold 
records indefinitely. Where records are limited Id expect a business to make reasonable 
assumptions based on what data it does have. And Id expect the business to calculate the 
redress based on those reasonable assumptions.
HFC looked at the account number for the loan, it says the account number indicates it was 
opened around April 2000, so it has taken that as the date the account was opened with the 
first PPI premium being paid in May 2000.
The earliest records for PPI HFC holds date from January 2001, and there are no records of 
Mr Gs PPI policy after that date. So HFC says Mr G couldnt have held a PPI policy after 
that date. So it took January 2001 as the end date of the loan and PPI.
HFC then reconstructed Mr Gs loan assuming it began in April 2000 and ended in January 
2001. It factored in the single statement from July 2001 when making its calculations.
In this way HFC  estimated Mr G had paid £115.20 in PPI premiums which it refunded to     
Mr G. HFC calculated he would have been charged interest of £13.52 on these premiums 
and it refunded that too. HFC also calculated compensatory interest at 8% for the time Mr G 
had been out of pocket. This amounted to £192.36, but HFC has to deduct income tax from 
this interest which was £38.47. So in total it offered and paid Mr G £282.61.
On the face of it HFC has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect, using 
reasonable assumptions based on the available data. 
But Mr G says he paid the loan for longer than HFC has said , and Ive thought carefully 
about this.
Mr G told us he agrees the loan was cleared around 2001.
But Mr G says he took the loan out much earlier in 1995 or 1996. He has supplied some 
paying in slips for loan repayments dated from 1996. And Mr G points out that the loan was 
for £5,000 while the balance on the July 2000 statement was £2,636, he says this shows he 
had been repaying it for some time.
I note the loan was actually a type of revolving credit, similar to a credit card. The credit limit 
was £5,000 but this doesnt mean Mr G actually borrowed £5,000 when the account opened. 
So Mr G would have been able to borrow up to £5,000 and his repayments would be set on 
the outstanding balance. But he could have borrowed less when the account was taken , in 
the same way as a borrower taking out a new credit card would not normally borrow the full 
credit limit immediately.
I noted the account number on the 1996 paying in slips was different to the account number 
of the July 2000 statement, suggesting they were for a different loan. Mr G told us this was 
because the loan was originally with another bank which was taken over by HFC, he says 
the account number changed at that time.
We asked HFC about this. HFC told us that when it acquired the other bank in 1999 the 
accounts remained branded in the original banks name and retained the same account 
numbers. As the July 2000 statement is headed HFC it couldnt have originated from the 
other bank. 
HFC has also shown us screenshots showing it searched for the account number shown on 
the paying in slips but could find no record of it. HFC says this means the account was 
closed before 1999 when it acquired the other bank.
HFC has also sent us screenshots which show other account numbers similar to the account 
number on the July 2000 statement which were all opened in April 2000. This suggests HFC 
is correct when it says Mr Gs account was opened in April 2000. 
I accept Mr G has a strong recollection that he paid the loan for longer and from earlier than 
HFC has suggested. However the evidence Ive seen shows it is most likely the loan was 
taken in April 2000 and ended no later than January 2001. And without any, more persuasive evidence it would not be fair for me to direct HFC to assume the loan was open 
for longer.
In summary I think HFC has made fair assumptions when calculating Mr Gs compensation, 
and I think its calculated the compensation in the way Id expect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman