DRN-4036516
The complaint
Ms J complains that the car she acquired through Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC 
(TFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants TFS to buy back her car at market value or 
compensate her for the faults.
What happened
Ms J entered a hire purchase agreement in January 2022 to acquire a used car. At the time 
of acquisition, the car was approaching four years old and had been driven just over 28,000 
miles. Ms J says the clutch failed eight months later and, when she tried to sell the car, some 
bodywork issues came to light. She says this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
and because of this, TFS should buy back her car at market value or compensate her for the 
faults. Ms J told us:
When the clutch failed, she was told shed need to pay to have the car examined, 
and would face a repair bill of around £900 if it was found that the clutch had failed 
through fair wear and tear;
the car had only been driven around 40,000 miles at this point and shed had it 
serviced at the required mileage;
although the dealership ultimately offered to inspect the car for free, she decided to 
have the clutch repaired elsewhere because it was cheaper;
in November 2022, she decided to sell the car, but when an independent assessor 
inspected it, they concluded that the front bumper was slightly mis-aligned, and an 
adjacent panel appeared to have been repainted in the wrong colour  thered been 
some repair work  so the sale did not conclude;
the car was unfit for purpose, and it was clearly being offloaded by the dealership.
TFS rejected this complaint. It said it hadnt seen any evidence that the problems with the 
clutch or the issues identified by the independent assessor were present or developing at the 
point of supply. And it noted Ms J had used the car for more than 8 months and had been 
able to drive around 10,000 miles before a fault occurred, so the issue with the clutch could 
not have been present or developing at the point of sale.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said there was no dispute that there was a fault with the car but  given the given the time 
Ms J had been in possession of it, and the mileage shed driven  she thought it was most 
likely that the issue with the clutch were as a result of normal wear and tear. She also said 
that as Ms J had purchased a warranty that wasnt covered by the agreement with TFS, she 
should raise the issues about the warranty with the warranty company. And she may be able 
to pursue this matter further with The Motor Ombudsman.
Ms J disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  I dont think this complaint should be upheld 
 and Ill explain why.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant laws and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Ms J is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. TFS is also the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods. So, 
what I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Ms J was of satisfactory 
quality or not.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied, unless TFS can show otherwise. But, if the 
fault is identified after the first six months, then its for Ms J to show the fault was present 
when she first acquired the car.
I dont think theres any dispute that Ms J has experienced problems with the car. That has 
been well evidenced by both her testimony and the information shes sent us. But, whilst I 
accept that there have been issues with both the clutch and the front bumper and panel, TFS 
would only be responsible for putting things right if Im satisfied that these issues were 
present or developing when the car was supplied  that is to say, the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when Ms J acquired it in January 2022.
Ive considered very carefully the subject of durability. But, having done so, I cant uphold 
this complaint. I say this because the clutch needed replacing more than six months after the 
car was supplied, so its for Ms J to prove that this fault existed (or was developing) when 
she first acquired the car. And I havent seen anything, for example, an independent 
engineers report, that shows me there was a fault with the clutch when the car was supplied 
to Ms J.
Furthermore, if the car had done limited mileage since Ms J took possession of it, I mightve 
thought it possible that the issue with the clutch was there when the car was supplied. But 
shed completed 10,000 in around 8 months  a greater level of mileage than the average 
driver. And this greater usage also means that its more likely that the cars components 
would have been subject to a greater degree of testing, stress and general wear and tear.
The clutch is a high wear and tear item. And the actual lifespan of it is dependent upon a 
number of different factors i.e. a car thats used for short journeys in heavy traffic will suffer 
more clutch wear than a car thats used for long motorway journeys. And the wear on the 
clutch is also affected by driving style. As such, I dont think that a clutch failing at 40,000 
miles is, in itself, enough to say that the clutch wasnt sufficiently durable.In conclusion, Im not persuaded there was a fault with the clutch when the car was supplied 
to Ms J.
Ive gone on to consider the issues Ms J reported with the cars bodywork  these were 
issues that became apparent when it was inspected prior to its intended sale. Although I 
understand Ms Js frustration that these issues resulted in the sale falling through, it wouldnt 
be right for me to hold TFS responsible for this. This is because Ms J had had use of the car 
for 8 months before these things were discovered, and again, theres no evidence that Ive 
seen, to suggest that this damage was present at the point the car was supplied.
Because of this, considering all the relevant circumstances, Im not persuaded that Ms Js 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. So, I cant hold TFS responsible for the 
problems Ms J has experienced with it.
Finally, Ms J has also raised the issue of the warranty she took out with the car, and that it 
didnt cover the cost of the repairs to the clutch. From the evidence Ive seen, the warranty 
was provided by the dealership, and the cost didnt form part of the agreement with TFS. 
As such, the warranty isnt something I can hold TFS responsible for. And Ms J will need to 
raise her issues with the dealership or warranty company direct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman