DRN-3747266
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), who provided 
them with home emergency cover under their home insurance policy, unfairly charged them 
a call out fee of £97.20.  Theyre also unhappy with the service they received during their 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance policy with Admiral. This also provided home 
emergency cover.
On 31 July 2021, Mr and Mrs P had a problem with their electrics. They thought theyd drilled 
through a cable in their home. This had led to there being no power in the house. They 
reported the loss of power to Admiral.  
Admiral said the claim was covered as Mr and Mrs P had a total failure of their domestic 
power supply resulting in their home being uninhabitable. It appointed a contractor to attend. 
But said that the contractor had passed the job back to it after not being able to source an 
appointment time. It then appointed a second contractor. They arranged to visit the property 
on 1 August 2021. 
Admiral said the contractor arrived within the timeslot Mr and Mrs P had been given. 
Before the contractor arrived at the property, Mr P managed to restore power. But he wasnt 
comfortable that hed completed the required repair properly. So he still expected Admirals 
contractor to attend to confirm or complete the repair.
Admiral said that when its contractor had attended, hed found that all electrics were 
operational. So it advised its contractor not to continue with works at Mr and Mrs Ps 
property as there was no longer an emergency situation present. Admiral said that Mr and 
Mrs P had been told, during their initial claim call, that if the contractor discovered that there 
was: no policy cover due to any policy exclusions or any information provided in this call is 
incorrect they would be charged for the call out and any repairs carried out. It said that as 
there was no emergency at the property when the contractor attended, it could no longer 
cover the claim under the home emergency insurance. 
Unhappy that theyd been asked to pay for the call out fee, and because they felt thered 
been a delay to the contractor attending their property, Mr and Mrs P complained to Admiral. 
Admiral issued its final response to the complaint. It didnt think itd done anything wrong. It 
said it couldnt guarantee appointment times would be on the same day as the emergency 
was notified. And that it had told Mr and Mrs P during the initial call that if they werent happy 
with the appointment time, they could source their own contractor. 
Admiral didnt agree that Mr and Mrs P had been incorrectly charged for the call out. It felt 
that Mr and Mrs P shouldve called it to update it that there was no longer a home 
emergency. It said it could then have then cancelled the appointment and avoided the call 
out fee.  
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with Admiral. So brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. Although she felt that Admiral had 
attended the appointment within reasonable timescales, she didnt agree itd acted 
reasonably when itd charged Mr and Mrs P for the call out. To put things right, she 
recommended the call out fee either be waived or refunded with 8% simple interest.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Admiral has 
unreasonably applied the call out fee. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered whether Admiral attended the appointment within reasonable timescales. 
Ive not found any set timescales for contractors to attend a property after a home 
emergency in the policy terms. And from what Ive seen, Admiral took reasonable steps to 
get a contractor out to Mr and Mrs P as soon as it could. Admiral also explained that Mr and 
Mrs P had an alternative option if they preferred. Overall, I dont consider Admiral did 
anything wrong here.
I next considered whether Admiral acted fairly when it said that Mr and Mrs P were liable for 
the call out charge.
Having listened to the call recordings between Admiral and Mr and Mrs P, I note that Admiral 
told Mr and Mrs P that if its contractor attended and found there was no cover due to an 
exclusion or incorrect information, Mr and Mrs P would be charged for the call out. Admiral 
didnt say how much this would be. 
Admiral also explained that it only offered temporary repairs. This is also covered in the 
policy terms and conditions. 
From what Ive seen, Mr P worked to find a temporary solution. He was able to restore 
power. But he wasnt comfortable that the repairs hed carried out had been done completely 
correctly. So he didnt tell Admiral there was no longer a problem, as in his opinion, there still 
was an issue. I understand why he feels this way. 
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I cant see where Admiral is entitled to 
charge a call out fee under the terms of the policy. Mr P had found a temporary solution to 
the power outage, so there was nothing further for Admirals contractor to do. But Admiral 
hadnt found that there was: no policy cover due to any policy exclusions or any information 
provided in this call is incorrect  an exclusion didnt apply, and Mr and Mrs P had given 
correct information during their initial call. Therefore I agree with our investigator that Admiral 
unreasonably applied the call out fee.
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint. Admiral must either waive the call out fee or refund it with 8% simple 
interest.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must either waive the call out 
fee, or refund it with 8% simple interest. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman