DRN-4079481
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) handled his personal loan.
What happened
Mr E took out a personal loan for £25,755.83 with Sainsburys in April 2017. The contractual 
monthly payment was £387.89. The initial attempt by Sainsburys to take the monthly direct 
debit payment for August 2020 was returned unpaid. Sainsburys second attempt to collect 
the payment was also returned unpaid. The subsequent monthly payments following the 
unpaid direct debit from August 2020, were all paid successfully. But the account was still in 
arrears of £387.89 from the missed payments in August 2020.
Sainsburys wrote to Mr E in September 2020 to notify him of the arrears. As no reply was 
received, Sainsburys issued Mr E with a default notice in October 2020. Sainsburys later 
defaulted the loan in March 2021 and the credit reference agencies were informed. 
Following the receipt of the default letter sent to Mr E in March 2021, Mr E contacted 
Sainsburys to say that the missed payment was an oversight due to the personal challenges 
he faced because of the pandemic, and that he didnt receive the default notice. He offered 
to repay the arrears, reinstate the monthly contractual payments and asked for the default to 
be removed. 
Sainsburys responded to Mr Es complaint to say that they did issue him with a notice of 
default and as no payment was received the account was passed to recoveries. While 
Sainsburys empathised with Mr Es circumstances at the time, they explained that they can 
only restore an account back to normal where a bank error had occurred. And as no error in 
the process of defaulting the account had been made, Mr Es account would remain in 
recoveries. But they did acknowledge the difficulties Mr E experienced when trying to contact 
Sainsburys complaints team and offered him £50 in compensation for the poor service he 
received. Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Mr E contacted our service to further his 
complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint and they didnt find that Sainsburys 
had defaulted the account unfairly and had followed the correct process when dealing with 
the missed payment and arrears. They also found the £50 compensation offered was fair 
and reasonable for the service Mr E received when making his complaint to Sainsburys. The 
investigator considered what Mr E said about his personal circumstances at the time and 
concluded that Sainsburys didnt need to do anything more.
Mr E rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision as he said the 
investigators findings didnt take in account his extenuating circumstances and reasons why 
he missed seeing the notice of arrears and default notice. But the investigator didnt think    
Mr Es circumstances meant that Sainsburys hadnt treated him fairly in the way they dealt 
with his account arrears. So, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 28 March 2023
It's not in dispute that Mr E was in arrears, and that the arrears were outstanding for at least 
three months. The Information Commissionaires Office (ICO) set guidelines for lenders to 
follow. The ICO guidelines say that a lender can default an account when payments are 
three to six months in arrears. And thats what happened here.
So, Im satisfied that the default has been applied in line with the account terms and industry 
guidance. And based on what lve seen, Sainsburys did enough to put Mr E on notice as to 
what action would be taken if the account wasnt brought up to date with the outstanding 
payment. But in hindsight - considering that Mr E had only missed one payment, and then 
continued to make his monthly contractual payments after that, Sainsburys actions seem 
disproportionate  particularly given Mr Es personal circumstances.
I've thought about what Mr E said about his circumstances around the time the default notice 
was issued. I asked Mr E for further information on the specifics of the personal difficulties 
hed mentioned and the impact this had on his day to day living at the time. Mr E explained 
hed had a mental breakdown around September 2020, and that it was also around this time 
that he was diagnosed with Aspergers. Mr Es Aspergers means he struggles to deal with 
multiple tasks.
Mr E has also told us  as a business owner, in September 2020 his focus was keeping his 
employees in work and setting up home working due to the pandemic, rather than focusing 
on home life and bills and any type of admin task. As a result, mail went unopened for some 
time and some mail was even lost. Mr E said he wasn't aware of the missing payment but 
continued to pay the monthly instalments thereafter. It wasn't until he got contacted by the 
business that Sainsburys sold the debt onto, that he was made aware of the default. As 
soon as he became aware he immediately tried to rectify the situation by contacting 
Sainsburys and offering to clear the arrears.
 
I've had a conversation with Mr E, and while I had no reason to disbelieve what he told me 
about his circumstances, I asked if he'd be able to provide me with evidence which backs up 
what he had said about his medical situation in September 2020. Mr Es provided me with a 
letter dated September 2020 from a third-party medical expert, a Consultant Psychiatrist.
The letter explains Mr E's personal challenges and that his mental health was at a crisis 
point at this time.
Taking into account that Mr E only missed one payment, and considering his very difficult 
and challenging circumstances at the time, which Im persuaded are material as to why he 
didnt respond to the letters sent to him by Sainsburys about the account arrears, I find that 
Sainsburys should remove the default from Mr Es credit file, take back the debt and allow 
Mr E to repay the debt in line with the original lending terms of the loan.
 
Ive thought about the £50 compensation Sainsburys have offered Mr E for the poor service 
he received in making his complaint to them. I consider this sum to be a fair for the 
inconvenience Mr E experienced as although this delayed the initiation of Mr Es complaint -
he was still able to get his concerns logged with Sainsburys within a short space of time and 
was subsequently able to refer his complaint to this service.
Ive also thought about whether a further award for compensation for the distress and 
coincidence caused to Mr E is warranted given his account was defaulted. But Ive found 
that Sainsburys defaulted Mr Es account correctly at the time  its only now  because Mr 
E has told us more about his circumstances, that I find that Sainsburys need to reverse the 
action they took on Mr Es account. So, I dont find that any further compensation is due 
here.Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. 
Id previously discussed my findings with Mr E, which he accepted  so he didnt provide a 
response to my written provisional decision. 
Sainsburys responded to accept my provisional decision. It confirmed it had initiated the 
process to purchase back the debt from the third-party collection agency. It pointed out that 
this process could take several weeks to complete and that they couldnt amend Mr Es 
credit file until the process was completed. But they confirmed at this point the default would 
be removed.
Sainsburys also said due to the age of Mr Es loan and because they have upgraded their 
systems, Mr Es loan is not compatible with the current platform used to host loan products. 
But they confirmed that when Mr Es account has been brought back in house, they will 
contact him to discuss a suitable solution for managing the account, which they will
ensure has no detriment to Mr E or negative impact to his credit file
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings and havent provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision.
Ive thought about what Sainsburys has said in terms of actioning the outcome of the 
complaint. And I find this reasonable in the circumstances. I urge Mr E to promptly respond 
to Sainsburys when they contact him to make arrangements for managing the outstanding 
debt.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Es complaint.
Sainsburys Bank Plc are to remove the default from Mr Es credit file and take back the debt 
they sold. Sainsburys Bank Plc should also make arrangements with Mr E to allow him to 
clear the arrears and arrange for him to continue making monthly payments to repay the 
loan with no detriment to Mr E or negative impact to his credit file.
Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr E £50 compensation (if they havent already done so) 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the service received when raising his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman