DRN-2881053
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr R entered into a two-year hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand-new 
car. The agreement reached maturity in July 2020, however due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the agreement was extended to September 2020 and the car was collected by MBFS 
recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B.
Mr R complains that after the car was collected by B, he received a report from MBFS 
charging him for damage to the car. 
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Rs car after it collected it. It said the following 
damage was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand front wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £110
2. Left hand rear wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £110
3. Right hand front wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £110
4. Right hand rear wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £110
5. Front bumper  refinish - £210
6. Rear bumper  refinish - £210
7. Right hand rear quarter panel refinish - £170
8. Missing V5C document (V5) - £30
Unhappy with the charges, Mr R complained to MBFS. He said the nature of his job meant 
he was working daily during the COVID-19 pandemic and his local dealership was closed. 
So he said he couldnt make a claim under his alloy insurance. He said the scratch on the 
rear bonnet was minimal and B agreed he wouldnt be charged for it when it collected the 
car. He also said he gave the V5 to Bs collection agent, but they refused to take it and he 
was told to keep it. 
In February 2021, MBFS issued its final response to the complaint. It said the charges had 
been applied correctly in line with MBFS vehicle return standards (VRS). It said Mr R 
would have been able to attend a dealership to claim on his alloy insurance, as the 
dealership was only closed from March 2020 to May 2020. So it said he had an opportunity 
to make a claim before the car was returned. It also said the agent of B denied Mr Rs 
version of events and said it didnt refuse to receive the V5 from Mr R when the inspection 
was carried out and it said they didnt advise the bumper wouldnt be chargeable. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the charges were applied fairly in line 
with MBFS VRS and the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. She also said she thought Mr R had 
enough time to visit a dealership after it reopened, to enable him to make a claim under his 
alloy insurance. And, she thought it was most likely the agent from B wouldve taken the V5 
if it was there at the time. 
Mr R disagreed. So his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Whilst deciding this case, I wrote to both Mr R and MBFS to let them know I wouldnt be able 
to consider Mr Rs complaint about the alloy insurance. This is because the alloy insurance 
didnt form part of the finance agreement Mr R entered into with MBFS. Instead Mr R paid a 
third party directly to provide this insurance to him. MBFS didnt respond. But Mr R said he 
had only dealt with the dealership in relation to the alloy insurance and he didnt think the 
charges were fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr R said but as the alloy insurance didnt form part of Mr Rs hire 
purchase agreement, I wont be considering Mr Rs complaint about the alloy insurance as 
part of this decision.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This guidance is generally 
intended for the return of new cars at the end of the first leasing cycle. MBFS arent 
members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA guidelines alongside MBFS VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Rs hire purchase agreement and these explain the standards 
that MBFS expected this car to meet on return. When Mr R acquired his car under the hire 
purchase agreement, he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the 
VRS. And he agreed that MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or 
refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as 
compensation. 
The car was around two years old at the point of inspection and it had covered just over 
21,500 miles. So, while Ill take into consideration the BVRLA guidance and MBFS VRS, Ill 
also think about whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
Alloy damage
In relation to alloys, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face.
And the following is not acceptable:
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm.
BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.
Ive looked at the photographs provided for each of the alloys where damage was identified 
by B. The photographs provided for all four alloys all show damage and scuffing exceeding 
50mm. This has been measured with a ruler which is shown in each of the photographs. 
In light of this, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to charge Mr R for the damage to the alloys as it 
falls outside of fair wear and tear.
ScratchesBs condition report identified scratches over 50mm on both the front bumper and rear 
bumper. It also identified scratches which exceeded 25mm and penetrated the surface of the 
right hand rear panel. 
In relation to scratches to the body of the car and paint, the VRS say the following is 
acceptable:
light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/ 
touching up.
They say the following isnt acceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has 
caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out.
For bumpers and body mouldings, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
vehicle
For both scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car, the BVRLA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Ive looked at the photographs provided for all three scratches. The scratch to the front 
bumper is around 100mm long and a ruler has been used to measure this. The primer is 
also showing. There also appears to be some corrosion at the outside of the scratch, which 
isnt acceptable under the VRS. 
The photograph which shows the scratches to the rear bumper, shows a number of 
scratches across two panels measuring around 100mm. I appreciate Mr R says these 
scratches are minimal, but as the scratches exceed 50mm and they penetrate the base coat, 
I think they affect the overall appearance of the car. And so, I think its fair for MBFS to 
charge for the damage to the front and rear bumper. 
The scratch across the right hand rear panel is around 70mm and this is shown in a picture 
using a ruler to measure it. The scratch penetrates the primer of the body and paint of the 
car. Given that it is more than 50mm and it has penetrated the primer of the car, I think its 
fair for MBFS to charge for this damage also.
Mr R says he was told when the car was collected that some of this damage would not be 
chargeable. I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely this was the case. But, 
even if he was, the damage still falls outside of fair wear and tear and I would still say MBFS 
are entitled to charge him for it. So, either way, this doesnt change my opinion.
V5
Theres no dispute that the V5 was due to be returned with the vehicle. But both Mr R and B 
provided two conflicting version of events about the V5. So Ive thought about what I think is 
most likely to have happened on a balance of probabilities.Mr R said he provided a copy of the V5 to B, but B refused to take this from him and told him 
to hold on to it. B say this didnt happen. The condition report has listed the V5 as missing 
and not available. But it confirms the service history and literature pack are available. It also 
shows a picture of the literature pack and confirms the service history is available online. 
Since Mr R has referred his complaint, hes provided our service with pictures of his V5. But 
given that B was required to check if the V5 was available as part of the condition report, and 
if so retain it, I think its unlikely, on balance, that B refused to take it and told Mr R to keep 
hold of it.
Overall I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge for the missing V5 as I dont think 
on balance, it was provided to B at the time it carried out the inspection.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman