DRN-2930723
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N complain about end of contract charges when their agreement with 
Mercedes- Benz Financial Services UK Limited ended.  
What happened
In or around September 2018 Mr and Mrs N were supplied with a car and entered into a 
finance agreement with MBFS. When the agreement ended, the car was inspected. MBFS 
asked Mr and Mrs N to pay damage charges of £362.90.
Mr and Mrs N disputed the charges. Mr N said (amongst other things) that the tow bar cover 
had been missing at the point of supply and that hed reported this. He said hed obtained an 
estimate of £280 to refurbish the wheels and assumed MBFS would charge him the same 
amount. He also said that he hadnt used all the mileage allowance so the value of the car 
was more than it would otherwise have been, and this should be taken into account and 
offset against the damage charges.
In response MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage had been charged correctly.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought that MBFS should waive the charges for damage to the RHR alloy 
and the RHF alloy because the evidence didnt clearly show the damage. She said the 
remained of the damage had been fairly charged.
MBFS didnt agree. It said it accepted that the damage to the RHR alloy wasnt well 
supported by the evidence but said the damage to the RHF alloy was clear and very similar 
to the damage on the other two wheels which this service had agreed was chargeable.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr and Mrs N must return the car in 
good condition and that any damage that exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies damage to the LHF 
alloy, LHR alloy, RHR alloy, RHF alloy and a missing tow cover.
 Looking at the report and the photos, and taking into account the relevant guidelines, Im 
satisfied that the damage to the LHF alloy and LHR alloy is beyond acceptable wear and 
tear and that the charges have been fairly applied. 
In relation to the RHR alloy, MBFS has accepted that the damage isnt supported by the 
evidence. In relation to the RHF alloy, I can see that there is scuff damage. It isnt clear from 
the photos whether the scuff is over 50mm. The BVLRA guidelines says that scuffs of up to 
50mm are acceptable. Ive taken account of what MBFs has said about this scuff and I agree 
that it looks similar to the scuffs on the other alloys. However, the scuffs on the RHF alloy 
arent identical to the other scuffs and in the absence of a clear measurement reference, Im 
not able to say with the necessary degree of certainty that the scuff goes beyond acceptable 
wear and tear.
In relation to the tow bar cover, I appreciate that Mr N says he reported this when he first got 
the car. Ive taken into account the fact that the car was brand new at the point of supply and 
that theres no evidence to support what Mr N has said about reporting the tow bar cover as 
missing. On balance, I think its more likely that the tow cover was present at the point of 
supply so Im unable to say that the charge is unfair.   
Putting things right
To put things right MBFS should remove the charges for the RHF and RHR alloys. This 
means Mr and Mrs N must pay the damage charges for the LHF alloy, the LHR alloy and the 
tow cover (total £192)  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must take the steps set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman