DRN-2468689
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc have reported inaccurate information to 
the credit reference agencies about their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint with Barclays because they thought it had recorded 
inaccurate information relating to their mortgage with credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Specifically, they were unhappy that their credit files showed missed payments for every 
month over the past few years. 
Barclays recognised that Mr and Mrs W had been making payments to their mortgage, but 
said due to some payments having been missed, the account is currently in arrears. 
Barclays said it was accurate to represent this on Mr and Mrs Ws credit files, but it offered 
Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation for the delay in answering their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly and explained to Mr and Mrs W that 
although they have made most of their recent contractual monthly payments, as the arrears 
had not been cleared, the information Barclays recorded was accurate.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They recognise that they had missed nine payments since 2012 
but dont believe these should reflect as continuous missed payments. Mrs W also provided 
further screenshots to show that Barclays had amended some payments to no data or on 
time but not others. And that Barclays had even stopped reporting their Mortgage Current 
Account (MCA). Mr and Mrs W believe Barclays are victimising them by falsely recording 
payments as missed and continuing to report adverse information against them. 
Barclays responded to say they had checked with their CRA team who recognised that the 
CRA Mr and Mrs W were using only shows up to 4 years worth of history and that they 
report arrangements differently which explains why some older entries had now dropped off 
and the more recent entries would show as no data or on time. They confirmed the MCA 
was still reporting their end and so this would need to be something Mr and Mrs W raise with 
the CRA directly. 
As Mr and Mrs W disagreed the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the information that is showing on their credit 
files. Looking at the reports that theyve provided it generally shows they have missed 
payments each month since 2016. 
I understand that for Mr and Mrs W they believe that months where they have made their 
contractual monthly payment on time, should be recorded as such. However, because the 
account is in arrears the account will continue to show adverse information or report as 
missed until the arrears are repaid.  
I dont think either party disputes that the account is in arrears and Im satisfied that the 
account is being fairly reported. I can also see that the current status section on the credit 
file details that the account is 6 payments in arrears, which based on the evidence Ive 
seen, is accurate. So, Im satisfied that Barclays are correctly reporting the account. 
Information will generally be reported on a credit file for a period of six years. Mrs W raised 
that some of the entries from 2016 have already dropped off and that recent payments in 
2020 and 2021 have either been reported as on time or no data. 
Barclays CRA team have explained why the CRA Mr and Mrs W are using might be 
reporting things differently, such as if they were in an arrangement. And regardless I cant 
see that this has disadvantaged Mr and Mrs W as there are only 4 years of missed 
payments to show rather than 6 and less missed payments showing on their files. 
Mr and Mrs W have explained their MCA is no longer being reported to the CRA, whilst 
Barclays have stated it is and suggested they should make further enquiries with the CRA 
directly. As this wasnt part of the original complaint, I wont be commenting on this further, 
but it may be possible for Mr and Mrs W to raise a new complaint with Barclays about this 
matter if they wish.  
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, Im satisfied its 
reporting their mortgage to the credit reference agencies appropriately and I think its offer of 
£150 compensation is fair. So, Im not recommending that Barclays do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is Barclays Bank UK Plc have made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman