DRN-2191006
The complaint
Mr O complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with and settled a claim he made 
under his landlord insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr O owns a tenanted property. On 25 January 2020 his tenant informed him the kitchen 
walls were damp and the units had sustained water damage as a result of a leak. 
On 28 January 2020, Mr O contacted his insurance broker, who Ill refer to as R in this 
decision. R had arranged a landlord insurance policy with AXA on Mr Os behalf. And Mr O 
informed R that his tenant had reported an escape of water that he wanted to claim for under 
his insurance policy.
R explained to Mr O that it would notify AXA of his claim. And it said AXA would contact him 
to obtain further information about what had happened and how his property had been 
affected. Mr O said R gave him authority to undertake remedial work within his property. But 
R said it informed him he could only undertake emergency repairs.
Mr O said he had no contract from R or AXA after 28 January 2020. So, on 30 January 
2020, he telephoned R to chase up what was happening. It transferred Mr Os call to AXA 
and he was able to discuss his claim with it directly. But, by this time, hed already instructed 
a contractor whod undertaken significant work to reinstate his property to its pre-loss state. 
Mr O said his contractor had undertaken emergency and necessary work to his kitchen. He 
said theyd had to remove the kitchen cupboard units and plaster in order to determine the 
cause of the escape of water. But AXA disputed that it had been necessary to strip out the 
kitchen and plaster. And, because the work had been completed prior to AXA being able to 
inspect the damage sustained, it felt its ability to assess this claim had been prejudiced. 
AXA attempted to validate Mr Os claim using photographs of his kitchen. But, based on the 
evidence it had seen, it wasnt persuaded that the damage Mr O had reported was 
consistent with a one-off escape of water. It said the photographs showed damp and mould 
had spread to adjoining walls and paint was peeling from the affected walls, which it thought 
had happened over a long period of time. It therefore repudiated Mr Os claim.
Mr O wasnt happy about how AXA was intending to resolve his claim  he thought it had 
unfairly assessed the evidence hed provided. So, he complained.
In AXAs final response to Mr Os complaint, it maintained its view that the extent of damage 
demonstrated that the escape of water had been ongoing for some time. And it said Mr O 
hadnt mitigated his losses in not repairing what had caused the escape of water at his 
earliest opportunity. It therefore didnt think it had made an error in repudiating his claim.
Being dissatisfied with how AXA had responded to his complaint, Mr O referred it to us. An 
investigator at our service assessed the evidence he and AXA had provided. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded, overall, that the cause of the 
damage Mr O was claiming for was due to a one-off escape of water. So, they didnt think 
AXA had acted unfairly in repudiating this claim and they didnt tell it to do anything else. But 
Mr O rejected our investigators view of his complaint and requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint in rather less detail than theyve 
been presented. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Its a reflection of the informal service 
we provide, and if I havent mentioned something, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is 
consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the 
issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr O. I can appreciate how distressing it must 
have been for AXA to decline to settle his claim. So, Ive carefully considered what 
happened and whether AXA made an error it needs to put right.
In reaching a decision about this complaint Ive assessed what Mr O and AXA have said 
about this claim and Ive listened to all the telephone recordings our service was provided. 
Ive also reviewed the photographs taken of Mr Os kitchen.  
Theres no dispute that extensive water and mould damage occurred to Mr Os rental 
property. However, theres a disagreement between him, AXA and its agents about when the 
damage took place and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mr Os landlord insurance policy with AXA provides cover for damage caused by a range of 
perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include an escape of water, 
for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mr O would have to show that the damage 
hes claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
Here, its clear an escape of water caused Mr Os rental property to sustain significant 
damage. I can see he reported this damage to R on 28 January 2020, which was three days 
after his tenant informed him about the escape of water. 
Mr O has referred to a delay in AXA contacting him about his claim. And he says he had to 
take steps to prevent the damage worsening during the time he didnt hear from AXA. But 
Ive seen evidence that within two days of him reporting his claim hed been able to discuss it 
with AXA directly. 
By the time that AXA spoke with Mr O about his claim, hed had already instructed a 
contractor whod removed all the damaged kitchen units and plaster. I understand that these 
materials were disposed of before AXA could inspect them. And I agree with AXAs 
comments that this prejudiced its ability to assess Mr Os claim. I also think the action Mr O 
took was premature. Ill explain why.The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Os policy require him to take all reasonable 
steps to prevent further damage. They stipulate that a policy holder must not dispose of any 
damaged items as AXA may need to see them.
Mr O told our investigator that R authorised him to go ahead with the reinstatement works. 
But Ive listened to the relevant call recording when Mr O said he was given that advice. And 
Im satisfied that what Mr O was told was that he could undertake emergency repairs 
provided he retained receipts. Emergency repairs meant Mr O was authorised by R to take 
measures to stop the leak and prevent the damage within his property from worsening.
Im not persuaded that in order to locate the leaking pipe it was necessary for Mr O to strip 
out his entire kitchen. And Im not persuaded by Mr Os argument that R said he could 
instruct a contractor to strip out his kitchen and dispose of the damaged materials. It follows 
that I dont think the action he took here was reasonable.
In removing all the kitchen cupboards and the plaster, and subsequently disposing of those 
items, this caused AXA to encounter difficulties in assessing this claim. But I think it tried its 
best to validate Mr Os claim using the photographs it was provided with  this was the only 
evidence it was able to see. And I think it informed Mr O of its repudiation decision within a 
reasonable time frame.
When AXA assessed Mr Os claim from the evidence that was available it wasnt persuaded 
the damage it saw had been caused by a one-off escape of water. And it repudiated the 
claim on that basis.
I know Mr O doesnt agree with AXAs assessment of his claim. But, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think AXA made an error in repudiating this claim. I say this because Im 
also not persuaded the damage Mr O reported occurred within a short period of time. I can 
see the damp had risen up the walls to the ceiling and theres extensive mould. 
Mr O believes the mould developed within a short period following the escape of water. He 
said a pipe within the kitchen wall had been leaking and this caused the widespread damage 
he reported to AXA.
While Ive carefully what Mr O has said about the cause of the leak, the photographs our 
service has been provided with show extensive water and mould damage in the kitchen. 
And, I can see that when AXA discussed Mr Os claim with his contractor, they said the 
kitchen cupboard were in a state of disrepair due to significant damp, the walls had mould 
and there was paint peeling from them. They indicated that for the leak to have caused such 
extensive damage it would have been present for some time.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Im persuaded that the damage to his kitchen has built up 
gradually over a period of time. Like our investigator, I dont think the damage happened 
since 25 January 2020. And, based on the photographs of the damage our service has 
received, I think the escape of water should have been evident sooner. 
Under the terms of Mr Os policy, where damage occurs as gradually AXA is entitled to 
repudiate a claim. Mr O might think this is unfair but this exclusion clause is in common with 
most home insurance policies. This is because insurance is intended to cover the 
unforeseen, and gradual damage isnt unforeseen.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied AXA acted reasonably in 
concluding that the damage Mr O reported hasnt occurred as a result of a one-off escape of 
water, which is what his policy requires under this peril. I therefore think it applied the terms of his policy reasonably in declining this claim. And this means it would be unfair to require 
AXA to pay Mr Os claim.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Os dispute with AXA informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr O any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman