DRN-1831703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) poorly handled their home 
emergency claim. Any reference to UKI in this decision also includes its appointed 
representatives.
What happened
On 24 October 2019, Mrs P registered a claim under her home emergency cover, 
underwritten by UKI, for a leak in her bathroom. Mrs P was directed to Company A, which 
handles this type of claim for UKI. But it said it couldnt speak with her about the claim, as 
she wasnt named on the policy  only Mr P was. Mrs P spoke to UKI who confirmed she 
was also named on the policy  but following this, Company A still refused to speak with her.
Mr P was out of the country, with very poor phone reception. So Mrs P says it took longer to 
get in contact with him so that he could give Company A authority to speak with her  which 
Company A said would only be valid for one day. Company A then arranged for a plumber to 
visit Mr and Mrs Ps property.
Mr and Mrs P say the plumber arrived at their property on the evening of 24 October, without 
sufficient identification. And that Mrs P had to push for some form of evidence to show the 
engineer was from Company A. The plumber then fixed the leak by replacing a pipe that ran 
from the bathroom floor to the toilet unit. But when the toilet was used the following day, the 
flush didnt work as there was no water in the cistern.
Believing that Mrs P no longer had authority to speak with Company A, Mr and Mrs P waited 
until Mr P returned home on 30 October before raising the flush issue. But Company A 
refused to send another plumber back out, because it said the emergency had been tended 
to and there was no longer a leak. It also believed they had use of another toilet at the 
property.  Mr and Mrs P made a complaint and were told someone would be in contact with 
them within 24 hours  but this didnt happen. 
Over the next week or so, Mr and Mrs P say they tried to raise their concerns with both 
Company A and UKI. They said Company A had treated Mrs P abysmally and had ruined Mr 
Ps holiday with unnecessary contact. They said Company A had refused to acknowledge its 
mistakes and had tried to use tactics that would force them into fixing the problem 
themselves. And they said Company A had failed to handle their complaint correctly by not 
escalating their concerns and not adhering to timeframes.
UKI responded to their complaint and apologised for its poor service. It agreed Mr and Mrs P 
had been given the wrong information from Company A with regards to its caller verification 
process, and about the issue with the toilet flush. It said a training need had been identified 
and that feedback had been given to the relevant parties. To put things right, UKI agreed to 
send out another plumber to fix the toilet and offered £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Mr and P brought a complaint to this service. They said that nineteen days without use of 
their toilet was unacceptable, and that had Mrs P been unable to get in contact with Mr P because of Company As incorrect information  the damage couldve been much worse. So 
they wanted the compensation to be increased.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said she couldnt award 
compensation for something that couldve happened but didnt, and that the trouble and 
upset award wasnt intended to fine or punish a business, but to recognise the impact its 
mistake had caused. 
In considering the impact, she found that while Mr and Mrs P had received poor service, UKI 
had since apologised and fixed any outstanding issues. And in her opinion, the £200 
compensation fairly recognised the trouble and upset caused. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with 
this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute in this case that Mr and Mrs P received a very poor service from UKI and 
that it made multiple mistakes. So what I need to consider, is whether UKI has done enough 
to put things right. Ill start by looking at the cover the policy provides.
Subject to certain terms, conditions and exclusions, Mr and Mrs Ps home emergency policy 
covers them for the cost of emergency assistance thats needed for an emergency involving 
several insured perils, including internal plumbing and drainage problems. And emergency 
is defined in the policy as:
An incident in the home that happens during the period of insurance and which needs to be 
dealt with quickly to avoid:
making the home unsafe or insecure for you
damaging the home and its contents, or
the home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or cold)
 
UKI accepted that Mr and Mrs Ps leak met this definition and appointed a plumber who 
attended their property on the same day the claim was made. The leak was stopped during 
this visit, so Im satisfied, that in line with the policy definition set out above, the actual 
emergency in this case was resolved in a timely manner. 
But there was a subsequent issue with the toilet flush. However, I dont think this further 
issue meets the definition of an emergency under the policy. This is because the toilet not 
flushing was unlikely to make the home unsafe or insecure  or cause damage to the home 
or contents. And it wasnt associated with the main source of heating, lighting or water. So I 
agree with UKI that the emergency was fixed during the plumbers first visit.
From what Ive seen, there wasnt a problem with the flush before UKIs plumber attended 
the property  suggesting it likely happened as the result of an error on their part. So UKI still 
had a responsibility to investigate and resolve the concerns Mr and Mrs P raised about this, 
in a fair and timely manner  which it failed to do. So Ive thought about the impact of this.
There were clear service failings on UKIs part in this case. Mr and Mrs P were repeatedly 
given wrong information and taken through unnecessary processes that understandably 
caused inconvenience and upset. And its understandable that Mrs P wouldve been 
concerned that the plumber arrived without a form of identification. Mr and Mrs P say that staff members were rude to them on the phone and failed to escalate their complaint as they 
should have.
UKI doesnt dispute any of these allegations. It says a training need has been identified for 
its staff in relation to these matters and that the appropriate feedback has been given to the 
relevant parties. Its also apologised for these errors and proceeded to fix the issue with the 
toilet. 
I think this is a fair resolution to put these matters right in this case. Essentially, no amount of 
money will change the poor service Mr and Mrs P received over the phone or in person. And 
as already been explained to Mr and Mrs P, trouble and upset compensation isnt intended 
to fine or punish a business. In this case, Mr and Mrs Ps problem with their toilet has now 
been resolved, and UKIs steps around feedback and training will hopefully avoid the poor 
service happening again. 
It took UKI longer than it shouldve to fix the issue with the toilet flush  so there was a 
period of unnecessary delay. And I agree, this couldve been very serious if this meant 
Mr and Mrs P had no use of a working toilet at all. Mr and Mrs P were asked if they had 
another working toilet at their property, but they havent provided a clear answer to this. 
Given that the investigator told them this could impact whether or not the compensation was 
increased, it seems likely to me they wouldve told us if they didnt. 
So on balance, I think its likely Mr and Mrs P had use of another toilet at their property  or 
at least they werent without the use of this facility during the time of the delay. And while I 
understand Mr and Mrs P think this is irrelevant, as UKI didnt know that  I can only award 
compensation for what actually happened in this case  not what mightve happened.
It follows, I think the £200 compensation already offered, fairly recognises the trouble and 
upset UKIs delays and poor service caused to Mr and Mrs P and I wont be directing it to do 
anything further in this case.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs P have since raised the cost of calls they made to UKI when 
trying to resolve this matter. Although requested, Ive not seen any evidence of the costs 
incurred in relation to this  so I wont be considering it further. Should Mr and Mrs P be able 
to provide UKI with this evidence, Id expect it to consider this.
My final decision
My final decision is that UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused in this case if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman