DRN-3209293
The complaint
Mr M says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Mr Lender provided to Mr M in February 2020. 
The loan for £400 was to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments with the highest being £81.18. 
From what I can see, Mr M repaid his loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M raised concerns about the general level of affordability checks required of lenders. But 
that isnt something that I can consider here as I need to consider Mr Ms complaint and 
whether or not Mr Lender lent to Mr M responsibly. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr M for information about his monthly income and outgoings and it carried 
out a credit check. Mr M said his monthly income was £2,062 and his outgoings were 
£1,913. This left Mr M with a monthly disposable income of £149 after meeting his loan 
repayments. Mr Lenders credit check didnt show any concerns that should have prompted 
further checks. 
I think these checks were sufficient and proportionate for Mr Ms first loan from Mr Lender. 
From these checks it looked as if the loan was affordable for Mr M. So I cant say it was 
wrong for Mr Lender to have provided it. 
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Mr Lender obtained. And Mr Ms actual 
financial position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements  had been obtained. 
But Mr Lender could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr M, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mr M. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Mr Lender needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Mr Lender carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Ms actual financial 
position. 
Mr Lender relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Mr Ms declared income and Mr M only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman