DRN-3249490
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended. Hes also unhappy that the car wasnt collected on the 
arranged date and seeks compensation for the losses he incurred as a result.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. At the end of the agreement, MBFS arranged for the car to be inspected and 
collected. The collection was arranged for 26 March 2021 but this failed because the agent 
experienced  travel delays. Collection was rearranged for an alternative date.
Following inspection and collection, MBFS invoiced Mr S for damage charges. Mr S disputed 
the charges and raised a complaint about the charges and the service hed received.
MBFS reviewed the damage charges and raised a partial credit in relation to the centre 
console. It said the rest of the damage had been charged correctly. In relation to the 
collection of the car, MBFS accepted that there had been a failed collection and offered £100 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator said the damage charges and the excess mileage charges had been 
applied fairly. He did t think it was fair to ask MBFs to pay the storage charges sought by Mr 
S and said that although collection of the car had been delayed, he didnt think this had 
prevented Mr S from carrying out work at home. The investigator thought that the sum of 
£100 offered by MBFS was fair compensation for the missed collection but said that MBFS 
should also refund the additional insurance costs incurred by Mr S between 26 March 2021 
and the date of collection.
Mr S didnt agree. He said his professional time had bee taken up waiting for the missed 
collection. He said hed stored the car in his garage and had calculated storage costs based 
on typical storage costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considerer acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report and the images and Ive reviewed all of the damage 
charges. The investigator has provided a detailed explanation of why he thinks the damage 
falls outside of acceptable wear and tear, with reference to the relevant guidelines. I agree 
with the investigators analysis. Looking at the damage identified, Im satisfied that it exceeds 
acceptable wear and tear. For this reason, Im satisfied that the damage charges have been 
applied fairly.
The agreement says that Mr S is liable to pay excess mileage charges of 12p plus VAT per 
mile if the contractual mileage allowance of 12,000 per annum is exceeded. Mr Ss 
agreement has a term of 48 months, so the total contractual mileage was 48,000 miles. The 
inspection shows that Mr S had covered 62,940 miles. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that the excess mileage charges have been applied fairly.
In relation to the additional expenses incurred by Mr S as a result of the failed collection, Ive 
considered these. Mr S says he incurred storage costs as a result of having to store the car 
at his property. Hes provided an invoice for £720 in support of this. I appreciate that Mr S 
was caused some inconvenience when the collection failed, but I dont think it would be fair 
to ask MBFS to pay storage costs. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr S has 
paid storage costs. The invoice for storage costs appears to have been raised by Mr Ss own 
company. I dont think its likely that Mr Ss company would have charged him to store the 
vehicle at his home address.
Ive thought about Mr Ss claim for loss of income. Hes said that he wasnt able to work on 
the failed collection date because he was waiting for the agent to arrive. Mr S has provided 
an invoice showing that his hourly rate is £250. I appreciate that Mr Ss working day would 
have been interrupted if the collection had taken place as planned. But give that Mr S has 
said that he was working at home at the time, I dont think the failed collection would have 
prevented him from working. So, I dont think its fair to ask MBFS to pay for any loss of 
income.
I agree that the missed collection caused some inconvenience but Im satisfied that MBFSs 
offer of £100 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for this.
In relation to Mr Ss claim for additional insurance costs, theres no dispute that he was in 
possession of the car for a few more days than he expected. And I think its reasonable that 
he insured the car during this time. Therefore, I think its fair to ask MBFS to meet any 
additional insurance costs incurred by Mr S.
Putting things right
To put things right, MBFS must refund the additional insurance costs incurred by Mr S as a 
result of the missed collection.
Im not asking MBFS to refund any other costs for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must refund Mr S the additional insurance costs incurred as a result of the failed 
collection.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman