DRN-3298089
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the quality of glass panelling in a conservatory he bought, using 
finance from Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Hitachi). Hed like Hitachi to replace it.
Mr B has been represented in bringing his complaint. But for clarity, Ill refer to all 
submissions made on his behalf, as having been made by him directly.
What happened
In May 2015, Mr B entered into a finance agreement with Hitachi. This was for the purchase 
and installation of a conservatory. The works were completed in around December 2015.
There were a number of glass panels in the roof. In February 2021, one of these exploded. 
As the supplier had gone into administration, another company came to replace it. 
Unfortunately, another panel exploded that April. The warranty didnt cover glass and the 
manufacturers didnt help either. So, Mr B complained to Hitachi. Hitachi, in turn, contacted a 
company that had provided a cross company guarantee for the supplier, but received no 
response. 
Accordingly, an independent inspection was arranged for the end of June. This stated that 
there wasnt a problem with the roof, and was inconclusive as to why the panels shattered. 
No movement was found in the conservatory itself. On rare occasions, panels shatter on 
their own due to outside impact - such as bird, branches, or stones. The report found that if 
the units had been faulty, they would have cracked and shattered within the first
couple months.
Mr B was unhappy with this. In summary, he didnt feel the inspector was sufficiently 
experienced. Also, it was the inside of the panel unit that shattered, not the outside, so he 
didnt think it was due to an external impact.
Following the inspection, a third panel shattered. At this point, it was decided that they 
should all be replaced with wooden ones. And although Hitachi contacted the inspector for 
further comment, this didnt change things. However, Hitachi did offer Mr B £500 for the 
distress hed suffered.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked at what had 
happened, but didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
conservatory had been misrepresented to Mr B. Nor did he think there had been a breach of 
contract.
In summary, this was because the independent inspection report could only advise that it 
was not possible to say why the units shattered - but they were well installed, sealed 
properly and there was no movement in the structure of the conservatory. So, he didnt think 
there was enough to conclude there was a manufacturing fault, or that the conservatory was 
not built with reasonable care or skill. He also thought that I am also persuaded that if there 
was a manufacturing defect or problem with the installation, it would have become apparent 
sooner.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he didnt think the inspector had been sufficiently qualified, or 
carried out an adequate inspection. Further, the inspector had said everything was fine, but it 
couldnt have been, as another panel exploded after his visit.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, and for the same reasons. I know that whats 
happened must have been very worrying and upsetting, particularly as a cause hasnt been 
found. But the report didnt find an issue with the conservatory or its installation. Im also 
mindful that the breaking panels happened after over five years. Taking this into account, I 
would want to see persuasive evidence of a defect at the time of installation. As there is no 
such evidence, on balance, I do not think there has been a breach of contact (or 
misrepresentation) by the supplier. Nor do I have concerns about the inspection, which I 
understand to have been carried out by an experienced professional. Therefore, I am not 
holding Hitachi responsible for whats happened.
That said, Im aware that Hitachi has offered Mr B £500, which I am not interfering with. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that the £500 Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc has offered Mr B is fair. I 
leave it to him to decide if hed like to accept it, if he hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman