DRN-3684966
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the amount of premiums they have been paying over the 
years for their private health insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited, and specifically 
Mrs Cs proportion of those premiums.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have held a private health insurance policy with BUPA since 2011. The policy 
was taken out at the end of 2010 on a continuation of cover basis following the end of cover 
under a group policy through Mr Cs former employer. BUPA said it didnt exclude pre-
existing medical conditions, but it would have asked if Mr and Mrs C had had any recent 
treatment for certain high-risk conditions, or if they had planned or pending treatment due to 
take place which they wanted cover for. BUPA said it would have added a loading to the 
premium if the answer to these questions was yes. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to BUPA when they found out that Mrs Cs proportion of the 
premium for 2022 was significantly higher than Mr Cs. Mr C and Mrs C didnt think this 
difference was right, as Mr C was older and hed had more severe health issues during the 
life of the policy.
BUPA said that the reason why Mrs Cs premium was higher from the outset was due to her 
answering yes to the question it asked about planned and pending treatment when taking 
out the policy. But BUPA said it no longer held records to show what this planned or pending 
treatment was for, given how long ago the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that Mrs C had two issues at the time of taking out the policy. 
One was that she was being reviewed for a heart condition, which turned out to be a 
common genetic condition that required ongoing medication but didnt affect her lifestyle. 
The other was that she had had an accident which led to her having minor surgery, but this 
hadnt required any treatment since then. 
But BUPA said that as Mrs C had ongoing treatment at the time they took out the policy, 
there would have been a loading added to her base premium. This was because BUPA said 
it would account for any known risk of claiming when a policy is taken out. This was 
irrespective whether the treatment ended up being ongoing or one-off. And any increases 
since would have been applied on the base premium, which has led to Mrs Cs premium 
increasing more than Mr Cs. BUPA also said any new conditions while cover was in place 
wouldnt impact the premium, but claims would.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable that BUPA didnt hold records from the end of 2010 when the policy was taken 
out, as businesses werent required to hold information for such a long time. So, she didnt 
think she could fairly say BUPA had done anything wrong, as she wasnt able to consider its 
underwriting criteria at the time. 
Overall, she thought the explanation BUPA had given for Mrs Cs base premium being 
higher was fair and reasonable. She also hadnt seen anything to suggest that BUPA had 
treated Mr and Mrs C differently to other policyholders in a similar situation.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, they said that:
We should take into consideration the evidence Mr and Mrs C are able to provide 
from the time the policy was taken out.
Had BUPA told them all this in 2015/2016 when they first complained about the 
premiums, Mr and Mrs C could have disputed this and BUPA would still have held 
the information from the time the policy was taken out.
They dont think its fair for BUPA to continue to charge a higher premium for a one-
off issue. They say that had they known the impact of this when they took out the 
policy, they would have chosen to self-fund the treatment instead.
BUPA is required to treat its customers fairly and be transparent. Mr and Mrs C dont 
think BUPA has done this.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is about what happened at the end of 2010 when Mr and Mrs C 
took out their policy. I dont think its unreasonable that BUPA doesnt hold records from 
then, given how long ago it was. And I cant penalise BUPA or draw any inferences from its 
inability to provide this information now. I know Mr and Mrs C say that BUPA would have 
held this information in 2015/2016 when they first complained about their premiums. But Mr 
and Mrs C could also have complained to our service at that time, if they remained unhappy 
about their premiums or the explanation BUPA gave.
I appreciate the explanation BUPA has now given about Mr and Mrs Cs premium is different 
to what it said in 2015/2016. But, in the absence of evidence demonstrating exactly what 
happened in 2010, I must base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened 
in the circumstances. And, having taken into account all the information available to me, as 
well as my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, Im satisfied that BUPA has 
explained why its likely Mrs Cs base premium was set at the level it was in 2010. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they have records from 2010/2011, such as correspondence from 
consultants. But I dont doubt what they say about Mrs Cs medical situation at the time. Its 
not for me to decide what underwriting criteria should have applied based on a policyholders 
situation. My role is to look if an insurer has applied its underwriting criteria fairly. 
And in the absence of BUPAs underwriting criteria for 2010/2011, I think the explanation 
BUPA has given for the difference in Mr and Mrs Cs base premium is fair and reasonable. 
Its not unusual for insurers to apply a higher base premium for policyholders who have 
pending or ongoing treatment at the time of taking out a policy. And I dont think the fact that 
this might have been one-off treatment for Mrs C changes anything. Insurers are entitled to 
decide how to set premiums, as long as they treat every policyholder in a similar situation in 
the same way. I havent seen anything to persuade me that BUPA hasnt done so here.Mr and Mrs C say that had BUPA explained the impact of Mrs Cs pending treatment on the 
premium, they would have chosen to self-fund the treatment. But again, as BUPA doesnt 
hold information from the time the policy was taken out, I cant fairly say it did anything 
wrong here. And, regardless of whether Mr and Mrs C had intended to self-fund the 
treatment, they would have been required to answer any questions which BUPA asked 
about their health honestly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but having considered everything, I dont think BUPA 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman