DRN-3443171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited didnt tell them it would 
oppose their application to set aside a possession order/money judgement in relation to their 
mortgage. Mr A says this caused them to incur costs unnecessarily and asks that 
Kensington compensates them for these costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs As mortgage with Kensington fell into arrears. Kensington was granted a 
suspended possession order and money judgement for the mortgage balance in late 2015. 
Mr A says while theyve been able to repay the arrears, having the judgement on their credit 
report has caused them difficulties with their business.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs A applied to court to have the judgement set aside. Theyd written to 
Kensington before doing this to ask if it would oppose the application. They say they didnt 
receive a reply. Mr A says if theyd known Kensington would oppose the application they 
wouldnt have gone ahead. They incurred costs and Kensington applied its own legal costs 
to the mortgage.
Kensington said it had responded to Mr As initial letter. It asked him to contact it and 
recommended he seek independent advice. Kensington said it should have replied to Mr As 
later emails, but it couldnt have told Mr A in advance what its response to the application 
would be. It offered £100 for poor service. Kensington said it was entitled to apply its legal 
costs to the mortgage account. 
Our investigator said it was Mr and Mrs As decision to go ahead with the application, and 
Kensington was entitled to apply its own legal costs to the mortgage account. Our 
investigator said while its service could have been better, the £100 compensation 
Kensington offered was fair.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised further concerns with us since Mr and Mrs A brought the complaint to us. 
Our rules dont allow us to look into a complaint until the respondent has had an opportunity 
to investigate and resolve it. I will only consider here the complaint that was raised with 
Kensington and brought to us. That is, that Kensington didnt respond to Mr As question 
whether it would oppose an application to set aside a judgement and unfairly applied costs 
related to this to their account.
Mr A first wrote to Kensington about making an application to set aside the judgement in 
May 2020. Kensington replied the same month. It asked Mr A to contact it due to the 
complexity of the matter. It recommended Mr and Mrs A seek independent legal/financial 
advice. Mr A says he didnt receive this letter.
Mr A says he sent a letter before action and emails to Kensington in June and July 2020. 
Kensington says it should have responded to the emails, and offered £100 compensation. 
However, it says its response would have been the same as in the letter it sent in May 2020. 
Kensington didnt know that Mr and Mrs A hadnt received the letter it sent in May 2020.
Mr A accepts that he didnt ask about the application during calls with Kensington. He says 
this was because he was expecting a formal reply and didnt expect the call handler to be 
able to deal with the issue. Its unfortunate Mr A didnt raise this, as its likely the call handler 
could have told him that Kensington had sent a written response. Mr A could have asked for 
a further copy to be sent. Theres been a misunderstanding about whether there was a call 
on 1 September 2020 during which the application was discussed. As neither party has any 
recollection of this call, and I think most likely it didnt happen.
Mr and Mrs A proceeded with the application in July 2020. While Mr A says they wouldnt 
have proceeded if theyd known Kensington would oppose the application, they must 
reasonably have known this was a possibility. Mr and Mrs A werent given any assurances 
by Kensington that it wouldnt oppose the application. Mr and Mrs A had the opportunity to 
seek independent legal advice. Ultimately, it was their decision to go ahead without seeking 
legal advice or receiving a response from Kensington. 
Kensington was entitled to decide whether to oppose the application made by Mr and Mrs A. 
Its entitled to seek legal advice to help it decide what to do and to represent its interests. 
The mortgage terms and conditions say Kensington is entitled to apply its legal costs to the 
mortgage account. I dont think it was unfair to do so here.
Further legal fees (of about £300) were applied to Mr and Mrs As account in mid-2021. 
Kensington says these were legal costs related to the hearing and correctly applied to the 
account. Mr A queried this, as it was about eight months after the hearing. But I cant see 
that this delay in applying the costs caused Mr and Mrs A any loss.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed. But I dont think its fair and reasonable 
to require Kensington to refund any costs it applied to Mr and Mrs A mortgage account, or 
require it to compensate them for any costs they incurred, in relation to the application they 
made to set aside a judgement.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman