DRN-3351857
The complaint
Mr O complains that Ald Automotive Limited trading as Lombard Vehicle Solutions (Ald 
Automotive) didnt tell him hed need to make additional payments after a payment deferral 
was agreed.
What happened
Mr O acquired a car under a 36 month hire purchase agreement with Ald Automotive in 
November 2017. The car cost £17,243.20. Under the agreement, Mr O was required to 
make 36 payments of £223.67, followed by a final payment of £10,513 if he wanted to keep 
the car. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr O applied for a three month payment 
deferral in March 2020. Ald Automotive approved this application, In June 2020, Mr O 
contacted Ald Automotive and asked it to extend his payment deferral by another month. Ald 
Automotive agreed to do this. 
Mr O contacted Ald Automotive in October 2020 as he says he received an arrears notice 
which explained he had missed seven monthly payments. He says he also noticed Ald 
Automotive hadnt resumed repayments following the payment deferral. And so he paid 
three monthly rentals to Ald Automotive. He says when he spoke to Ald Automotive, it told 
him the other four payments would be added on to the end of the agreement in an 
agreement extension. 
Following this, Mr O contacted Ald Automotive in February 2021 so it could arrange to collect 
the car. Ald Automotive collected the car on 2 March 2021. It also told Mr O he had 
outstanding arrears to pay to cover the four month payment deferral. And it told him there 
were some charges for damage to the car and excess mileage. 
Unhappy with this, Mr O complained to Ald Automotive. He said he wasnt told hed need to 
repay any monthly instalments whilst he had a payment deferral. And he disputed the 
damage and excess mileage charges. 
Ald Automotive issued its response to Mr Os complaint in April 2021. It:
disagreed that it had informed Mr O that the payment deferral would extend his 
agreement without late hire costs being incurred and it said it sent him an email to 
confirm the terms of his agreement wouldnt be changing 
said it was Mr Os responsibility to arrange the collection of the car 
accepted it had incorrectly billed Mr O for excess mileage and so reduced this from 
£1,199.31 to £253.36 
reviewed the damage charges Mr O had been charged and reduced these from £584 
to £214
recognised that Mr O had difficulty contacting it and so it credited his account with 
£200. 
Mr O wrote to Ald Automotive and said he agreed with the excess mileage charge and the 
damage charges for the alloy wheel and wheel arch. But he said he disagreed with damage 
for the offside front inner door and said he was told on a number of occasions his agreement 
would be extended to accommodate the payment deferrals.
As Mr O remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his 
complaint and said the four payments outstanding are capital payment holiday payments 
which were due at the end of the agreement and not arrears. He said he shouldnt be liable 
for the £894.68 outstanding, as he had already made payments for the four months he had 
the car whilst he was in the agreement. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said she thought Ald Automotive could have 
communicated better, but she thought Mr O should pay the outstanding four monthly 
payments due as he had use of the car during the four months. She said the £200 Ald 
Automotive had already paid Mr O was fair and reasonable and reflected the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr O.
Mr O disagreed and said he wasnt liable for the four monthly payments as this was a 
contract extension rather than a late hire period. As Mr O remains unhappy, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
Since referring his complaint to our service, Mr O has said he is no longer complaining about 
the excess mileage and damage charges he was charged. So I havent considered these 
charges as part of this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr O has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Ald Automotive told Mr O he would need to pay 
the four monthly payments which it says remain outstanding. If it didnt, Ill need to think 
about whats fair to put things right.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance on 24 April 2020, that 
came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as Ald Automotive to grant a 
three-month payment deferral to people like Mr O. The guidance said that a firm should 
grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
Ald Automotive agreed a three month payment deferral in March 2020 with Mr O. At the end 
of the payment deferral, Mr O asked for the payment deferral to be extended for one 
additional month and Ald Automotive agreed to this.  
Its unclear what conversations took place when the payment deferral was initially agreed. 
Ald Automotive have referenced that there was guidance available online, such as the FCA 
guidance on payment deferrals. But it hasnt said whether it provided any additional 
information to Mr O. I dont think it matters here because when the payment deferral 
extension was agreed in June 2020, Ald Automotive sent Mr O an email which confirmed the 
terms of Mr Os agreement were not changing. This meant that payments owed under the 
agreement would need to be repaid. So up until this point, Im satisfied Ald Automotive told 
Mr O hed need to repay the payments owed during the payment deferral.Having said this, in October 2020, Ald Automotive told Mr O his account was seven months 
in arrears. This was due to the four months payment deferral and because Mr Os Direct 
Debit hadnt been reinstated since it was cancelled in March 2020, three additional 
payments had been missed. 
Mr O called Ald Automotive and paid three monthly payments. During the call, Mr O asked to 
pay the four monthly payments owed under the payment deferral at the end of the 
agreement. Ald Automotive agreed to this. Mr O clarified whether these would be claimed 
between November 2020 and February 2021. The advisor said it was a possibility for Mr O 
to pay the payments at the end of the agreement or to split the arrears over the remaining 
monthly instalments. Mr O said he would be handing the car back in February 2021.
I think Ald Automotive could have been clearer during this conversation. I say this because 
Mr Os agreement was due to end in November 2020, which was the following month. So 
Ald Automotive should have made it clear that if Mr O returned the car after November 2020, 
he would also be liable for the four payments due under the payment deferral, as well as any 
additional payments due for the additional time he had the car past November 2020.
I appreciate that the literature provided to Mr O before the call in October 2020 made it clear 
that the terms of Mr Os agreement wouldnt be changing. And so, Mr O should have 
reasonably been aware hed owe the four payments due under the payment deferral at the 
end of the agreement, which is when he returned the car. However, given that I think Ald 
Automotive could have been clearer when it spoke to Mr O in October 2020, Ive thought 
about what, if anything, Ald Automotive should do to put things right. 
Its unclear what Mr O would have likely done had he been advised in October 2020 that he 
would need to pay any additional months rental and the four payments owed under the 
payment deferral if he kept the car past November 2020. He may have decided to return the 
car in November 2020 and so only have been liable for the four payment deferral payments 
and not any additional hire charges past this point. Mr O also may have decided to keep the 
car regardless and paid for the additional use of the car past November 2020, as well as the 
payments owed under the payment deferral, as he may have needed access to a car.
In this case, Mr O did continue using the car until he asked Ald Automotive to collect it from 
him in March 2021. And during the call in October 2020, Mr O said at the end of       
February 2021, he would make a decision about whether the pay the balance and keep the 
car, or hand it back. He said in the meantime, hed look to source a replacement. And said 
he would talk to Ald Automotives sales team about obtaining a replacement car. 
Had Mr O handed the car back in November 2020 and sourced a new car, hed have likely 
incurred a cost to obtain another car. So, on balance, given Mr O hadnt sourced a car at the 
time he spoke to Ald Automotive in October 2020, I think its more likely than not, that Mr O 
would have kept the car, even if Ald Automotive had told him he needed to pay the four 
payment deferral payments and any additional hire charges should he return the car after 
November 2020. 
Mr Os agreement makes it clear that if he keeps the agreement after the end of the term  
November 2020  and he doesnt pay the optional final payment, Ald Automotive may 
charge him extra use cost at a daily rate. The statement of account shows that Mr O was 
invoiced for late hire charges between late November 2020 and late March 2021. It also 
shows that Mr O paid these four late hire charges which totalled around £800, between late 
November 2020 and late March 2021. And so it follows, that Ald Automotive are entitled to 
charge Mr O for both the payments owed under the payment deferral and the additional days 
hire.
Ald Automotive has already paid Mr O £200 for the breakdown in communication. In light of 
the unclear information that Ald Automotive has accepted it provided Mr O, and given I think 
he would likely still have returned the car in February 2021, even if Ald Automotive had provided him with the correct information, I think the £200 Ald Automotive has already paid 
Mr O is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman