complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep 
things simple, Ill just refer to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mr C bought the policy in March 1992 at the same time as taking out a charge card. Mr Cs 
charge card was later changed to a credit card in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz says Mr C would have been given a choice about the PPI. In support of what its said, 
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mr Cs credit agreement. This shows that Mr C was given the 
option of selecting whether or not he wanted the PPI added to his card. Theres a tick in the 
box for the PPI, so overall Im satisfied that Mr C agreed to the PPI knowing he had a choice.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Im satisfied that Mr C chose to 
take out the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable.
Mr C has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work. Mr C says this shows he didnt need the 
PPI as his existing work benefits were very good. 
DRN-1039286Having thought about what Mr C has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means he 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr C would have received from his employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI also would have 
paid a benefit if Mr C was made redundant. 
So overall, I think Mr C could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman