DRN-3963610
The complaint
Mr B says when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, Advantage Insurance 
Company Limiteds service was poor, and it made an unfair decision on liability.
What happened
Mr Bs car was hit by another vehicle on 18 August 2021 when he was turning right into a 
main road from a side road. He said his view to the right was partly obstructed and that the 
other driver was speeding, otherwise the collision could have been avoided. Mr B gave 
Advantage the details of a witness who told him at the scene that she and her partner had 
noted the other driver was speeding when he passed their car. Mr B also told Advantage that 
police officers who had attended just after the accident took measurements, plus statements 
from other witnesses. And he said there was CCTV footage of the accident.
Advantage attempted to contact Mr Bs witness. It decided not to request the police report, 
as the police werent present when the accident happened, and their report was produced 
some time later. But Advantage reviewed the CCTV footage and Mr Bs photos. It thought 
the footage showed he was at fault for not ensuring the way was clear before entering what 
it considered to be a straight main road, with good visibility. It also thought that as it was dark 
- and the other car had its headlights on  Mr B should have seen it.
Mr B complained to Advantage about its poor service in not contacting him adequately and 
not responding to his contact with it, plus other service issues. He also complained about the 
liability decision. Advantage didnt change its view on liability, but it accepted that there were 
two occasions when it had provided poor service. It offered Mr B £30 compensation. He 
wasnt satisfied with that, so one of our investigators reviewed his complaint.
The investigator thought Advantage had acted reasonably in making its decision on liability. 
She didnt think there was merit in Mr Bs concerns about not getting a courtesy car (or a 
substitute vehicle) or being told in error that his protected no claims discount (NCD) would 
be affected by the accident. She didnt think hed been financially affected by the way 
Advantage handled his request for personal information. But she said it should raise the 
compensation to £150 to reflect poor service issues, such as its lack of response to Mr Bs 
contact with it.  As Mr B wasnt happy with that, the complaint was passed to me for review, 
and I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Mr B has provided an extensive account of his concerns. He wants an overhaul of all 
Advantages systems, plus a hotline for witnesses. But we arent the industry regulator. We 
cant instruct an insurer what processes to put in place. Ive reviewed everything Mr B and 
Advantage have said. But I wont be referring to all of the points made by the parties. Ill 
focus on the points I think are central to the complaint.
Liability
We dont decide whos at fault for an accident. We look at whether the decision the insurer 
made seems to be fair and reasonable and that it carried out a reasonable investigation.
Advantage told Mr B that when a driver emerges from a side road onto a main road, its likely 
that if an accident happens, the driver who was on the side road is held at fault. But the 
advisor also said it may make a difference if theres evidence of the other driver speeding. 
Mr Bs research showed that in similar cases, courts had held drivers who were speeding 
along main roads to be partially at fault for collisions with vehicles emerging from side roads. 
So I can see why Mr B wanted all the potential evidence of speeding to be reviewed.
Advantage thought the CCTV footage wasnt sufficient to show that the other driver was 
speeding, but Mr B said it should be considered along with all the witness evidence and the 
police report. He thought it may have contained relevant measurements taken at the scene 
(such as the other drivers stopping distance, which would have related to his speed). And it 
seems the police spoke to witnesses whose evidence might have been useful. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Mr B to expect Advantage to contact the police for a 
copy of the police report and for it to make every effort to contact the witness who spoke to 
him. I think Advantage has shown that it tried to contact Mr Bs witness, but it delayed in 
doing so and I think it could have made more effort than it did. There was confusion around 
her email address that I think Advantage could have done more to clarify, given that her 
evidence may well have been relevant to the claims outcome. 
Based on its experience of similar cases, Advantage thought the best possible outcome 
would have been for liability to be split  which is in line with the findings of Mr Bs research. 
Although he would still then have had a fault claim on his record - so his premiums would 
still have risen - Mr B thinks a split in liability would have put him in a better position, as he 
could then have made a personal injury claim and may have received some compensation. 
The evidence from Mr Bs witness and the content of the police report may not have 
persuaded the other insurer to settle the claim with split liability. But it could have done. If 
not, Advantage would have had to consider the prospects of success in court, taking into 
account the extra evidence. No-one can say what conclusion a judge would have reached, 
but if there was sound witness evidence that the other driver was speeding, and possibly 
relevant evidence from the police, its possible a court would have decided that liability 
should be split in some way. So in my opinion, its reasonable for Mr B to think that as a 
result of Advantages decisions, any chance to have the claim settled differently was lost.
Replacement / substitute car and legal cover 
Mr Bs premier policy provides a courtesy car as standard, referred to in the policy as a 
replacement car service. Whats clear from the policy (and is in line with standard industry 
practice) is that a replacement / courtesy car will only be provided if a consumers car is 
being repaired by one of Advantages approved repairers.
Mr B wasnt eligible for a replacement car, as his vehicle wasnt being repaired. But the 
policy also refers to the cover available if a consumer has bought substitute vehicle cover as 
an optional extra. With that option, a consumer can claim for the cost of a hire car if their car 
is written off in an accident that was their fault. Mr B says he was never given the chance to 
buy it, so we asked Advantage for clarification. It provided evidence that substitute vehicle 
cover and other options were shown as available online for an extra payment when Mr B first 
bought the policy. Advantage said it doesnt upsell optional cover unless consumers ask 
about it. It says Mr B didnt ask, either at the start, or when renewing his policy. Mr B may 
think Advantage should have brought the option to his attention  but substitute vehicle 
cover is mentioned in the policy, so I think Mr B had the chance to ask about it at any point. Mr Bs policy shows that legal cover is provided as a standard feature. Its  there to recover 
uninsured losses and to pursue personal injury claims when appropriate. It also provides 
cover against prosecution for motoring offences. The 24-hour legal helpline is to assist with 
those matters. The legal protection provided with the policy doesnt cover the cost to 
Advantage of taking a disputed claim to court, as Mr B has suggested.  
    
NCD
Mr B says he was told when he reported the claim that his NCD would be reduced or lost -
and that he was told the same when he called to cancel the policys renewal. But Mr B had 
paid to protect his NCD as an optional extra, which was shown on his policy schedule. 
We asked Advantage for the relevant call recordings. It provided the one in which Mr B 
stopped the policy renewal, but there was no mention of the NCD in that call, by Mr B or by 
the advisor. Advantage says theres no recording of Mr B reporting the claim. 
Even if an advisor gave Mr B the wrong information about his NCD at some point, the letter 
Advantage sent to him just after the accident (on 20 August 2021) said his NCD would be 
affected unless it was protected. I think Mr B could have checked that easily by looking at 
the policy schedule. Advantage also issued a letter to Mr B dated 8 September 2021 which 
showed the correct NCD. Mr B says he didnt get it until December 2021. But Advantage has 
provided evidence recently to show that the letter was issued by post and by email that day. 
So there was no delay in issuing it. 
I think most consumers would recall having protected NCD. And I think its reasonable to 
expect consumers to look at their policy documents if theyre not sure, or to check with their 
previous insurer, when applying for a new policy. I think Mr B had access to documents that 
should have prompted him to confirm his NCD with Advantage before he told his new insurer 
that he had none. With one fault claim on his record, his NCD would have reduced (although 
only to four years, rather than to zero) but as it was protected, it didnt reduce at all. 
Mr B got a refund from the new insurer once he provided proof of having over nine years 
NCD. He says hed been forced to take out a more expensive policy than the one hed had 
with Advantage, so that even with the refund, hes worse off. But theres nothing to show that 
Mr B took out the cheapest comparable policy, or whether the new policy is better in some 
respects than the previous one. And I think Mr B could reasonably have avoided looking for 
a  policy based on zero NCD in the first place.   
Poor service overall
I can understand Mr Bs frustration with long waiting times to get through to Advantage, but 
that issue applies to all its customers - and we cant instruct insurers to improve their call 
systems. I think Mr B has shown that many of his emails werent responded to. His first 
complaint to Advantage was all about the lack of communication and updates. But it only 
addressed communication issues in its final response letter of 18 August 2022. It noted just 
two occasions on which it agreed that it hadnt responded to his emails. Advantages file 
shows that there were few calls from it to Mr B throughout the claim - and hes specified 
dates on which he asked for calls back that didnt materialise. So I think Mr B has shown that 
there were many examples of poor contact, and few updates.   
Mr B thinks Advantage acted unreasonably in providing him with the details it held about him 
through a subject access request (SAR) because it took too long, and many details were 
redacted. He thinks that was an attempt to hide information from him that might have helped 
his case. I think whether Advantage acted reasonably in relation to the SAR or not is a 
matter for the Information Commissioner (ICO). Mr B hasnt shown any financial loss as a result of this issue. He says he was inconvenienced by having to deal with Advantages data 
protection team, but I think some inconvenience was inevitable.  
   
In summary
I dont think Mr B has shown that Advantage acted unreasonably in relation to several of the 
issues hes raised, but I think it was reasonable for him to be frustrated with the way the 
claim was handled. I think he had reason to believe that (with further investigation) the claim 
may have been finalised differently. And he was upset by the very limited communication 
from Advantage. He says he found it hurtful and humiliating that his attempts to 
communicate with it (to offer help and to raise queries) were ignored.  
I dont think Advantage gave Mr B an explanation for its lack of contact with him after he first 
complained to it. And I dont think it gave him a good explanation for not attempting to get 
the police report. It looks as though the disputed issue of his witnesss email address was 
never resolved. So Mr B was inconvenienced by having to chase Advantage for updates and 
also by having to try to keep his witness on side. 
Taking everything into account, Im minded to conclude that the overall poor service 
provided by Advantage (including the incomplete investigation of the accident) merits a total 
sum of £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Advantage accepted that it could 
have done more on the liability stance, but it didnt think there would have been any benefit 
to Mr B had liability been split. It didnt accept that £500 compensation should be paid for 
poor service. Mr B said Advantage had shown poor judgement by commenting that the road 
where the accident happened was straight - and by not noting the effect on visibility of a 
railway bridge. He also said Advantage took two months to respond to his SAR, as it wasnt 
passed to the relevant team despite several requests from him to several advisors. He said 
that amounted to poor customer service, so more compensation should be paid.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Bs comments about the disagreement between him and Advantage about the 
visibility from the accident site. I understand his concern, but I dont think the issue was 
central to Advantages decision. In my opinion, what might have made a difference to the 
outcome was the potential evidence from the police and witnesses that wasnt gathered. 
In terms of poor service, Advantage thinks £500 compensation is too high, but Mr B thinks it 
isnt high enough. I dont think the £150 proposed by the investigator is adequate, given the 
significant poor service Mr B experienced overall. That includes the incomplete investigation, 
which I think caused him a great deal of worry, upset and inconvenience. I think it also 
meant he may have lost out on personal injury compensation. In addition, I remain of the 
view that the ongoing poor communication from Advantage caused much frustration to Mr B. 
Ive considered whether I should raise the compensation, as Mr B has suggested, but Id 
already noted that the SAR took too long, and I think £500 is a substantial sum which is 
sufficient to cover all the distress and inconvenience Mr B faced.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr B £500 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman