DRN-3764503
The complaint
Mrs N complains Fairmead Insurance Limited have unfairly declined her buildings insurance
claim.
All references to Fairmead also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Our service previously considered a complaint from Mrs N regarding the claim under a
separate reference. My provisional findings focus on events after this, up to Fairmeads final
response to Mrs Ns new complaint in May 2021. Any reference to events before this are for
contextual purposes only and I wont be commenting or making a finding regarding how
Fairmead have carried out directions given in previous decisions from our service.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in
full here. Below is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.
Fairmead carried out monitoring at Mrs Ns property for around five months.
At the end of the monitoring, it said it had found no downward movement. It said the
damage was lateral movement caused by a lack of restraint and
thermal movement.
Fairmead says this isnt covered as an insured event in the policy and therefore no
cover is to be provided.
Mrs N had previously commissioned a surveyor (A) to inspect her property and
provide a report. They believed the damage was subsidence related but
acknowledged some lateral movement had taken place.
Mrs N raised a complaint with Fairmead regarding its decision to decline to cover the
damage at the property. In bringing her complaint she has also referenced the
service she has been provided by Fairmead and its appointed agents  and has
described the stress and anxiety the claim has caused her.
Fairmead maintained its decision to decline the claim. However it offered Mrs N £50 
compensation as it acknowledged there had been times where its service could have 
been better.
Mrs N wasnt happy with Fairmeads response, so she brought her complaint to our
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ns complaint be upheld. She said she was more
persuaded by what Fairmead had said and the cause of damage is thermal and lateral
movement - and not subsidence.
Mrs N disagreed with our investigator and asked the matter be put to an ombudsman. She
provided further comments from A reiterating why it believes the damage is subsidence 
related.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs N has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive
read and considered carefully everything shes provided. However, my provisional findings
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt
meant as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the
parties have raised or to answer every question asked.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs N, and by Fairmead, to reach what I
think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why:
Here we have evidence from two different experts which put forward slightly different views.
In circumstances such as this, I have to make a decision on which piece of evidence I am
more persuaded by and why.
Fairmeads expert evidence sets out the following:
Following a period of monitoring, Fairmead reported no downward or progressive
movement had been found at the property.
Fairmead surveyed the drains and found there to be no issues that could be causing
subsidence related damage.
Fairmead concluded the damage had been caused by thermal and lateral movement.
A trial pit had previously showed differential levels in the foundations at the home.
And its said significant gaps in the continuity of the foundations between the two has
left the area susceptible to some slight differential movement. It has also pointed to
the construction and layout of the property as contributor to the damage.
Monitoring has also shown differential readings with cracking larger during colder
months which is also typically indicative of thermal movement.
The report provided by Mrs N, by A, sets out:
Lateral movement could be a factor. But says a failure in the sub soils would have
also occurred and caused the subsidence.
A also referenced a car park built nearby to be a possible contributory factor to the
movement the property has experienced.
Summary
Having reviewed all the evidence available, Im more persuaded by the evidence Fairmead
has provided regarding the cause of the movement experienced at Mrs Ns property. It is
very detailed and provides persuasive commentary for the findings of its investigations. Im
also mindful that both parties appear to agree that lateral movement is visible at the 
property, I therefore dont think Fairmead have acted incorrectly in declining Mrs Ns claim. 
In making this decision, Ive also taken the following into consideration.
Despite A mentioning a failure of the subsoils Ive not seen any evidence provided
which supports this assertion.
Considering what Ive set out above, the lack of downward movement and the
findings of the monitoring persuade me that this is more likely than not the cause ofthe damage and not subsidence.
Mrs N says she was previously told during a visit by a representative from Fairmead
that the damage reported was subsidence. Ive not seen anything that details this
conversation. However, I will note that it has since provided reasons why the damage
isnt because of subsidence. And as Ive said above, I am more persuaded by what
Fairmead has said.
Im sorry to hear of the distress the damage, and resultant claim, has caused Mrs N.
For this she has my natural sympathy. Claims of this type are by nature stressful and 
do come with a level of inconvenience. And I cant hold Fairmead responsible for 
anything unavoidable.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied the compensation Fairmead offered is in the region
of what I believe reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont intend to direct it to
increase this amount.
So for these reasons, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead provided no further comments following my provisional decision.
Mrs N didnt agree with my provisional findings.  She said the photos of the property, along 
with As report and comments, says the property has suffered from subsidence. She said 
friends, family, solicitors, and a surveyor had commented the property suffers from 
subsidence  and only Fairmead disagree with this.
In her response Mrs N has also requested that I list all the documents I considered when 
reaching my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered all the information provided by Mrs N and 
Fairmead. That includes all information that would have been available to our investigator 
when they issued their view of Mrs Ns complaint, the subsequent information and comments 
Mrs N has provided since our investigator issued their view, and the information theyve 
referenced in subsequent correspondence. 
Im not listing every document specifically, because I've considered everything, not just 
particular documents, in reaching my decision. If I dont mention any particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. I dont intend this as a discourtesy; it is just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Ive considered what Mrs N has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
I appreciate A has set out in their report, and subsequent comments, they believe that 
subsidence has occurred at Mrs Ns property. But Fairmead didnt agree with this and 
provided different reasoning for the damage. 
In circumstances such as this, where we have evidence from two different experts, which put 
forward different views, I must make a decision on which piece of evidence I am
more persuaded by - and why. I set out why Im more persuaded by what Fairmead has said 
in my provisional decision. And I see no reason to change my findings. Having reviewed everything, I think Fairmead have acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
Mrs Ns claim. And, I think it has already offered a reasonable amount of compensation to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused by the poor service it identified.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman