DRN-2407801
The complaint
Mr P complains about how he was treated by Santander UK Plc when he attended a 
branch in June 2020.
What happened
Mr P says he went to a Santander branch in June 2020 to close his account and transfer 
money. He says he wasnt told he needed identification documents and the staff member 
he spoke to was rude and verbally abusive towards him. He also says the staff member 
asked another staff member if Mr P could be trusted and made another comment to him 
which was up you go. Mr P says another staff member intervened and recognised him 
and so he was able to transfer his money but has been left distressed by the incident and 
would like an apology.
Santander says it has investigated Mr Ps claim and has spoken to its staff members. It 
doesnt accept speaking to Mr P inappropriately and says it normally needs identification 
documents in these circumstances, but a staff member recognised Mr P and so was able 
to transfer the money.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it difficult to be sure what took place in branch and thought Santander was entitled 
to ask for identification.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says he doesnt have a passport or bank card 
and maintains he was insulted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about 
what took place.
I make clear to Mr P that I think its up to Santander what if any identification it requires in 
these circumstances and I dont think it unreasonable for it to ask a customer for some 
form of identification before making a transfer of this size. I appreciate Mr P says he 
doesnt have those identification documents but, in any event, I can see they were not 
required.
I find it is impossible to be sure what took place in the branch and I cant fairly conclude 
Santander staff acted as Mr P says. Im satisfied that Santander has fairly investigated 
what took place and spoken to the staff involved. I appreciate Mr P says that one member 
of staff intervened on his behalf but that is not what Santander staff say and in summary 
say they acted appropriately. For those reasons I cant fairly conclude Santander was 
abusive towards Mr P or used the language he says a staff member used.
For the reasons I have explained I cant fairly order Santander to apologise to Mr P as 
he would like, and Im satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this 
dispute informally can do to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
David Singh
 
Ombudsman