DRN-2618993
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fitted a suitably matched roof panel.
What happened
Mr D had buildings insurance, including cover for accidental damage, with UKI.
UKI accepted Mr Ds claim under his insurance for accidental damage when a third-party 
roofer dropped a tile onto his conservatory roof panel. The roofer offered to repair it, but said 
the panels were discontinued. After inspecting the damage, UKI said the panels were still 
available, though not an exact match. It offered to replace it with a slightly different shade, so 
when it weathered it would be a reasonable match. Mr D accepted and paid his roofer for the 
work hed done, feeling satisfied that the damage would be repaired under his insurance.
UKI replaced the panel but Mr D complained that it didnt match at all. He understood that 
UKI was going to install a darker panel that would lighten over time to produce a better 
match. UKI said the original panel had been obsolete for years and it installed a lighter panel 
because they darken over time.
Mr D complained to UKI because:
he wouldnt have paid his roofer if UKI had said the panel couldnt be better matched;
UKI gave him conflicting information about whether the panel will lighten or darken;
marketing information about the conservatory roof states that weathering will not 
affect the colour, so the replacement panel was never going to match, and
the roof panel hasnt changed colour and stands out from the rest as white instead of 
blue.
UKI said Mr D was aware the panel wouldnt match before it replaced it. To resolve his 
complaint, UKI suggested Mr D source the panel himself via another tradesperson, but Mr D 
said he knew the exact panel was obsolete.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had acted fairly. She thought that it had acted in line with 
the terms of the policy, but she didnt think UKI had given Mr D consistent information when 
handling the claim. Because of that, our investigator thought Mr D couldnt have made an 
informed decision. She thought UKI should compensate Mr D for the loss of expectation; try 
to find a darker panel, or compensate Mr D with an amount equivalent to what it would cost 
to replace it.
UKI didnt agree. It said the technical department confirmed the panel would get darker over 
time, and it had apologised to Mr D for the confusion. UKI had already offered Mr D the 
opportunity to use a different tradesperson to better match the panel, but it wasnt aware that 
hed done so. UKI also said that Mr D had agreed to it installing a different colour of panel 
and theres no benefit in trying to find a better matched one now because, if one was 
available, it wouldve done so at the time.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ds complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint, but my reasons for doing so are a little different to 
those given in our initial investigation. I also think that UKI needs to do more to put matters 
right. Ill explain.
There are two key issues here - the information UKI gave Mr D when he agreed to the 
replacement panel, and the loss of match. I think the second issue was made worse by 
UKIs handling of the first issue.
Information
UKI gave Mr D conflicting information about how the roof panel would change colour. He 
accepted the offer to replace based on its confirmation that a darker shade of blue panel 
would lighten over time. I can see why he accepted. Its reasonable to assume that sunlight 
would, if anything, lighten a panel. Once installed, the panel was much lighter - the photos 
Mr D supplied show that. UKI said Mr D was mistaken and the panels would get darker. 
Its not disputed that UKI gave Mr D conflicting information over three occasions. But I think it 
was the first occasion that matters most. Thats because Mr D made his decision to accept 
the replacement based on UKI telling him the panel would lighten and eventually provide a 
better match. Because UKI gave incorrect information, Mr D lost his opportunity to make an 
informed decision. I think its reasonable for UKI to compensate Mr D for not managing his 
expectations fairly, and Ill address that at the end of my decision.
Loss of match
As Ive explained, Mr D made his decision to accept UKIs offer to replace the panel, on the 
understanding that it would weather and blend in with the other panels. Ive seen the photos 
of the panel immediately after replacement and the more recent photos, taken almost a year 
after the panel was replaced. It hasnt blended in. There are seven panels, of which six are 
blue and one (the replacement) is almost white. It stands out, so I can see why Mr D is upset 
at the overall look of the roof. To put this into context, this is the view from inside the 
conservatory, so the sunlight shines through the lighter panel much more clearly than 
through the blue panels.
UKI hasnt said the panels are a good match, but it does maintain that the panel will darken 
and become a better match. I accept that UKI considers that to be true but, as Mr D pointed 
out, the roof panels are marketed as a product which wont fade. 
The issue is that, a year later, the panel doesnt match, and Mr D is dissatisfied. He made 
his decision to accept the replacement panel because UKI told him it would weather and 
blend in. It might, but theres no evidence to say when that might be. So, I dont think UKI 
has done enough here.
To resolve matters, its my role to try to put Mr D back in the position he was in before. So, to 
do that, Im going back to the beginning to think about what UKI shouldve done. 
Mr Ds roof panel was damaged and UKI accepted his claim under his policy. The policy 
says:
If the buildings are damagedwe will either:
repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
make a cash paymentIf we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make a 
cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and 
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
If UKI had told Mr D it couldnt replace the damaged panel with a suitable match, and he was 
already aware that the panel was obsolete, I think its likely that he wouldve accepted a cash 
settlement. As the terms state, the settlement wouldve been the same amount it wouldve 
cost UKI to replace the panel. Ive seen that the cost to UKI for providing a replacement 
panel was £475.96, less Mr Ds £100 excess. So, to put him back in that position, I think its 
fair that UKI pays Mr D £395.96 to cash settle the claim.
I understand Mr D may be dissatisfied with this outcome because he wanted UKI to replace 
the remaining panels to match. He says the value of his house is around £1200 less 
because of the mismatch. Mr Ds policy doesnt cover, any drop in the market value of your 
home caused by rebuilding or repairing damage to your buildings.
And, the policy states:
We wont pay:
to alter or restore any undamaged part of the buildings
to replace or alter any undamaged items solely because they are part of a set, suite, 
group or collection, unless they are part of a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen and the 
damaged parts cant be repaired or replaced.
The terms are clear, so Ive thought about whether theyre fair in the circumstances. I think 
its likely that one of the functions of the blue panels is to reduce glare inside the 
conservatory. The photos show that the effect is not the same with the lighter panel. For that 
reason, I dont think Mr Ds dissatisfaction is wholly due to the way the panel looks, and Ive 
thought about whether it would be reasonable to ask UKI to replace the remaining panels. 
But, as the original panels are obsolete, it wouldnt be able to recreate the original look of the 
roof.
So, the only other option to create a more pleasing appearance would be to replace all the 
panels so they match. But I dont think its fair to ask UKI to do that. Thats because Mr Ds 
conservatory roof is around 13 years old, well into the second half of its expected lifespan, 
and possibly approaching a time when maintenance costs may be incurred. If I asked UKI to 
replace all the panels, that would constitute betterment  Mr D would be in a better position 
than before.  So, Ive decided that, in the circumstances, it was fair for UKI to decline Mr Ds 
request to replace all the panels in line with the policy terms.
However, that doesnt address Mr Ds loss of match and still leaves him in a position where 
he has one odd panel. I dont think it would be fair for either UKI or Mr D to cover the cost of 
replacing the remaining panels and, in circumstances like this, I think a compromise is the 
fairest approach. Ive seen in the documents UKI supplied that the cost to replace the 
remaining panels would be £1500, and I think its fair to split the cost equally. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the cash settlement of £375.96 puts Mr D back in the position he 
wouldve been in when he first made his claim if UKI had explained it couldnt match the 
panel. However, UKI hasnt handled his claim as well as it couldve done. It couldve been 
much clearer about the options available to Mr D from the start. Managing his expectations 
mightve prevented the additional upset and frustration he went on to experience. For that 
reason, I think UKI should pay Mr D a further £750 in compensation for the upset caused 
and for the loss of match.I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint and I am minded to require U K Insurance 
Limited to:
pay Mr D £375.96, which is its cost to repair and the amount it wouldve settled the 
claim for in cash, and
pay Mr D £750 compensation for the loss of match, and by way of apology for the 
upset caused as a result of the conflicting information it gave.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr D accepted my provisional decision.
UKI responded to say that the lack of match is only evident with hindsight and at this stage it 
wouldve offered to cash settle for the broken panel. However, it pointed out that the terms of 
the policy dont cover undamaged matching items, so UKI thought a 50% contribution for 
loss of match was unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand UKIs point that its only now, after a year has passed, that its evident the 
panels colour hasnt changed to give a better match. But I dont agree this is only with the 
benefit of hindsight. Mr D accepted the replacement because UKI reassured him it would 
provide a panel which was darker than his existing panels and that it would fade. UKI fitted a 
much lighter panel instead of a darker shade of blue, and I think the difference is quite 
marked. Mr D complained immediately because UKI hadnt fitted what it said it was going to 
and the manufacturer stated that the panel wouldnt change colour.
So, while Mr Ds belief, and the manufacturers claims have only been proven more recently, 
I think UKI shouldve done more from the outset to ensure that the panel would provide a 
reasonable match or cash settle. That said, UKI does agree that its fair to cash settle the 
cost of the panel now.
UKI thinks its unreasonable to pay 50% of the remaining, undamaged panels, and pointed 
out that I had said its terms were clear about this issue. The terms are clear, but I dont think 
theyre fair in the circumstances. If the loss of match was on the top of the roof, its likely my 
decision wouldve been different. Here, the panel difference is obvious and changes the look 
of the roof on the inside and the whole appearance of the room. 
The policy terms dont cover matching sets, but I dont think the roof is a matching set in the 
strictest sense. Its not like a set of chairs, for example, where they can be used in different 
rooms and the match doesnt matter as much. I think its fairer to consider the roof in a 
similar way to a fitted kitchen, which isnt excluded under the matching sets policy term. The 
panels are individual units but they fit together to form one thing  the roof. So, the damaged 
panel affects the overall look of the roof and its function as a light filter.
While I understand UKIs view, it hasnt changed my mind. Im satisfied that my provisional 
decision is fair and UKI should pay for the damaged panel and 50% of the cost to replace 
the undamaged panels as compensation for the loss of match.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
U K Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr D £375.96, which is its cost to repair and the amount it wouldve settled the 
claim for in cash, and
pay Mr D £750 compensation for the loss of match, and by way of apology for the 
upset caused as a result of the conflicting information it gave.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman