DRN-1373677
 
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about a delayed faster payment she made.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Nationwides terms and conditions, which Ms B agreed to when she opened her 
account, say it can conduct additional security checks.  
Businesses like Nationwide have processes and procedures in place to try and 
identify transactions that arent genuine. Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers may be inconvenienced by them, but thats not to say that 
Nationwide shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have followed them as it 
did here.
Here Nationwide carried out more checks as it was entitled to do and as a result the 
money didnt reach the recipient as quickly as Ms B expected. But it did arrive the 
next day. She also says she couldnt get hold of Nationwide on the phone but this 
was outside its normal operating hours. I also don't think Nationwide has to justify to 
Ms B why it carried out checks on this particular occasion.
Overall, although I recognise Ms Bs frustration, I dont think Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask it to pay any 
compensation as Ms B would like. 
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My Final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Stephen CooperOmbudsman