DRN-2362540
The complaint
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says he was mis-sold an investment bond by Newcastle Building Society (NBS) in 
2007.
What happened
Mr M invested £10,000 into a Newcastle 50:50 Balanced Bond in April 2007. The bond was 
structured so that half was linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 index and half would 
pay a variable rate of interest which was dependent on the Bank of England Base Rate. The 
bond was guaranteed which meant that regardless of the performance of the FTSE or the 
Bank of England rate, Mr M would get back the sum originally invested. When the bond 
matured Mr M received his initial investment amount and a small amount of interest.
The CMC complained to NBS in December 2019. They said that the bond paid out a variable 
rate of interest of 0.5% which they say was a mediocre amount that did not protect against 
falls in interest rates and was in no way a bonus for Mr M taking out the other part of the 
bond which was linked to the performance of the FTSE 100 index. 
The CMC also said that even if the FTSE 100 index had made a gain over the period that 
MR M held the bond, he would only receive a low net return of 40% of any growth. The CMC 
said that they believed the investments were unsuitable for Mr M as he was on the cusp of 
retirement and should not have been advised to take a risk with the real value of his money.
NBS investigated the complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. They 
said that the bond was purchased on a non-advised basis and they did not provide Mr M 
with any advice based on his personal circumstances. They said that they had simply 
provided Mr M with information on how the bond worked and it had been Mr Ms own 
decision to proceed with the investment. NBS did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with NBSs response, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator did not think that NBS had done 
anything wrong and thought that the bond had been sold on a non-advised basis. The 
investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC has asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome that the investigator has reached, and I will not be 
upholding the complaint.
I note that Mr M has submitted a separate complaint via the CMC for another investment that 
was taken out in 2005. Although this complaint does have similarities with the investment 
taken out earlier, some of the circumstances are different so I will be considering this case 
on its own merits.
The complaint dates to 2007 and NBS have provided what documentation exists from the 
period which Mr M invested.  I have reviewed these documents and note the following:
Application Form
The application form for the bond has a section titled discussing my investments. This 
section is designed to be completed if the investor meets the criteria listed from one of the 
four choices available and wants NBS to arrange for an appointment with an advisor. An 
appointment is mandatory for investors over the age of 80 and strongly recommended for 
the other groups mentioned. There is also a box for those under the age of 80 and do not 
wish an appointment with an advisor.
Mr M has not ticked any of the four choices including the box that says I am between 65-79 
years. Mr M would have been 65 at the time of completing the application form. Mr M has 
also not ticked the box for those under the age of 80 and do not wish an appointment with an 
advisor.
In the absence of any section of this form being completed, I cannot assume if Mr M wished 
advice or not. The CMC have said that Mr M wished advice, but this part of the application 
form does not support this argument.
Bond Brochure 
The brochure for the bond summarises the product details in an easy to read table format. 
This shows how the bond is made up and how it will be measured against the FTSE 100 
index and Bank of England base rate.
The brochure also has section called Is this account right for me?. The section includes the 
statement It is always best to discuss your investment options with a professional. We can 
arrange an appointment with a personal financial manager from a subsidiary company.
Having read this section and the way that the brochure is presented, I think that the 
investment was offered on a non-advised basis and that the consumer needed to make their 
own decision to invest. Had it been recommended to Mr M, I think that the wording would 
have been different as NBS would have known it was right for him.
I also think that the use of the phrase investor gives the impression of a client wishing to 
invest rather than an advised consumer. This combined with the warning that the reader 
should consult an investment professional makes me think that this investment was sold on 
a non-advised basis.
The CMC have said that Mr M wished for advice on how he should invest. If a business 
provides advice it has to consider the consumers personal and financial circumstances, their 
attitude to risk and if they can afford to invest. This is then summarised into a suitability letter 
which contains the recommendation for the consumer. The CMC and Mr M have not given 
any evidence that this fact find took place and a recommendation to invest was provided. 
This leads me to believe that the investment was sold on a no-advised basis.The CMC have made the complaint based on Mr Ms recollections and what they know 
about the product that was sold. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ms recollection of what happened in 
2007, I am more persuaded by the documentation that NBS have supplied.
In summary, based on the documentation that I have reviewed I think that the bond was sold 
on a non-advised basis and it was up to the consumer to consider the investment risks 
before investing. NBS made it clear in the documentation that if the consumer was unsure, 
they should obtain advice from an investment professional.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman