DRN-2777950
The complaint
Mr S complains that Motability Operations Limited wont refund to him the amount that hes 
claimed when he ended the hire agreement under which a car had been supplied to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S and to Motability Operation on 18 
March 2021. In my provisional decision I set out what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr S under a hire agreement with Motability Operations 
in April 2019. He made an advance rental payment of £2,899 and the minimum term 
of the agreement was three years. Mr S complained about a number of issues with 
the car and the car was returned to the dealer multiple times but Motability 
Operations says that no faults were found. Mr S was provided with courtesy cars but 
he wasnt satisfied with them.
It was agreed that the hire agreement would be ended in August 2019 and that 
Motability Operations would refund £3,500 to Mr S and it agreed to increase that by 
£600 because the replacement car that Mr S wanted was more expensive.
Mr S then entered into a new hire agreement with Motability Operations in August 
2019 for the replacement car to be supplied to him. He made an advance rental of 
payment of £3,599 and the minimum term of the agreement was three years. Mr S 
complained to the dealer, and then to Motability Operations, that a wheel had been 
damaged and he said that he wanted to leave Motability Operations scheme 
because hed lost confidence in it. Motability Operations accepted Mr Ss voluntarily 
termination of the agreement and refunded the advance rental payment of £3,599 to 
him. It also paid him £199.88 to reimburse him for some fuel costs relating to the 
collection of a hire car that was being provided to him and to compensate him for his 
loss of use.
Mr S then complained to this service because he hadnt been reimbursed for the 
£615 that hed paid to the dealer for optional extras on the car. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. He said that the ending of 
the first hire agreement had been resolved in a way that was acceptable to Mr S and 
Motability Operations so there was no need for him to comment on it any further.
He calculated that the pro rata financial loss that Mr S had incurred, taking into 
account the use that hed had from the car, the cost of the optional extras and the 
refund of the advance rental payment that hed received, was £145.90  so he 
recommended that Motability Operations should refund that amount to Mr S. He also 
said that Mr S had been caused distress and inconvenience because of issues with 
the hire car and that it would be fair and reasonable for Motability Operations to pay 
him £150 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Mr S says that he should receive a refund of £735 from Motability Operations. 
Motability Operations says that there was no issue with the replacement car and it 
accepted Mr Ss voluntary termination of the agreement. It says that the optional 
extras he chose didnt form part of the agreement and arent within the scope of the 
complaint so it shouldnt be required to refund any further amounts to him. It says 
that the provision of a hire car to Mr S wasnt a contractual obligation but it accepts 
that Mr S may have been inconvenienced so it accepts the finding that it should pay 
£150 compensation to Mr S.
And my provisional findings were as follows:
I consider that the resolution that was agreed by Mr S and Motability Operations for 
the first agreement to be ended was fair and reasonable and I dont consider it to be 
necessary for me to make any further comment about it.
A replacement car was supplied to Mr S under a hire agreement with Motability 
Operations that he signed in August 2019. He complained to Motability Operations 
about an issue with the cars steering in December 2019. That issue was investigated 
and initially no fault was found but a buckled wheel was identified in January 2020.
Im not persuaded that its likely that the wheel was buckled when the car was 
supplied to Mr S as he was able to use the car from August to December 2019 
without reporting issues with the cars steering. I consider it to be more likely than not 
that the wheel buckled as a result of it hitting something. I dont consider that that is 
enough to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr S so Im not persuaded that he had the right to reject the car at that time.
Mr S said in January 2020 that he wanted to leave Motability Operations scheme 
because hed lost confidence in it. It allowed him to voluntary terminate his hire 
agreement and return the car  and it refunded to him the advance rental payment of 
£3,599 that hed made for the car.
I consider that Motability Operations acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with the 
agreement as if it had been voluntarily terminated - and it refunded to Mr S the full 
amount of his advance rental payment. I consider that it would have been fair and 
reasonable for it to have reduced that refund on a pro-rata basis to take account of 
the use that Mr S had had from the car.
Mr S says that he should receive a refund of £735 but I consider that it was his 
decision to end the hire agreement and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Motability Operations to refund £735, or any other 
payments, to him. Motability Operations has paid £199.88 to Mr S to reimburse him 
for some fuel costs relating to the collection of a hire car that was being provided to 
him and to compensate him for his loss of use. Our investigator recommended that 
Motability Operations should pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience that he was caused because of issues with the hire car. Motability 
Operations says that the provision of a hire car to Mr S wasnt a contractual 
obligation but it accepts that Mr S may have been inconvenienced so it accepts the 
finding that it should pay £150 compensation to him. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to pay that compensation to Mr S. 
So, subject to any further evidence from Mr S or from Motability Operations, my provisional 
decision was that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld in part. Motability Operations has sent 
Mr S a cheque for £150 but he feels that it hasnt treated him fairly in relation to the handling 
of his complaint about the quality of the car. He says that there were endless issues with the first car so Motability Operations accepted 
rejection of it and an adjustment payment was agreed for the replacement car. But he says 
that he had lots of issues with the replacement car juddering and he wasnt told that it was a 
buckled wheel (he says that had he known that it was a buckled wheel he would've paid to 
have the repairs done). 
He says that when the car was in for repairs, he had to collect a number of hire cars. He 
says that one time when he was away from home he was advised to go to a city to collect a 
hire car but when he got there the hire car wasnt there. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I dont 
consider that theres enough evidence to show that the replacement car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. He used the car from August to December 
2019 without reporting any issues with the cars steering but then said, in January 2020, that 
he wanted to leave Motability Operations scheme because hed lost confidence in it. I 
consider that it acted fairly and reasonably when it allowed him to voluntary terminate his 
hire agreement and return the car and refunded his advance rental payment of £3,599.
Its clear that there were issues with the collection of hire cars and I sympathise with Mr S for 
the distress and inconvenience that those issues have caused him. But Motability 
Operations has already paid £199.88 to Mr S to reimburse him for some fuel costs relating to 
the collection of a hire car that was being provided to him and to compensate him for his loss 
of use. Its also accepted our investigators recommendation that it should also pay him £150 
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused because of 
issues with the hire car  and it has sent him a cheque for £150.
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Motability Operations to refund to Mr S the 
£735 that hes claimed, to pay him any more compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
Putting things right
Motability Operations has accepted the finding that it should pay £150 compensation to Mr S 
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused because of 
issues with the hire car  and it has sent him a cheque for £150. So, although Im upholding 
Mr Ss complaint in part, I dont require Motability Operations to take any further action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part but, as Motability Operations has 
already sent a cheque for £150 to Mr S, I dont require it to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman