DRN-3696712
The complaint
Mr E complains that Starling Bank Limited havent done enough to recover his international 
payment which didnt arrive.
What happened
When planning his wedding in Greece, Mr E made two international payments to Eurobank 
through Starling. 
The first payment was successful, however there was a problem with the second payment 
for 3000 Euros sent in September 2021. 
Mr E was informed that the funds hadnt been received and they were returned to the 
intermediary bank called Bank A. And, when he contacted Bank A, they said they had 
returned the funds to Starling.
Starling said they raised a recall and investigated but, as Bank A used invalid return details, 
they couldnt trace the funds or provide Mr E with a refund.
Mr E asked Starling to liaise with Bank A and further investigate, however Starling said Mr E 
would need to contact Bank A. When Mr E complained, Starling apologised but didnt uphold 
his complaint. They explained they hadnt made the error and didnt have the funds.
Mr E complained to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint as he felt Starling 
should have done more to recover the funds. He said Starling should pay Mr E £2590.48, 
which is the total deducted from Mr Es account when the 3,000 Euros transaction was 
completed. Also, Starling should pay 8% interest on this amount going from the date the 
funds were sent back to them. In addition, he said Starling should pay Mr E £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
However, Starling didnt agree and said they had acted in Mr Es best interest, followed the 
correct procedures, and explained the delay was caused by Bank A. 
So, this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator.
I first looked at Starlings terms and conditions and found the following:
Other organisations are also involved in processing International Payments and we are not 
responsible for all stages of an International Payment. If we become aware that an 
International Payment has been rejected or delayed, we will try to help you retrieve the 
funds. Where an International Payment fails for a reason which is our fault, we will return the 
funds in full to your Account. Where the failure is not our fault, the funds may need to be 
reconverted to the currency that your Account is denominated in before we can return them 
to you and you may receive less than you originally paid. If you include incorrect payee 
information on the International Payment instruction, we will try to help you recover the 
funds, but may charge you a fee for doing so. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to 
return the funds to you.
We accept liability where we act on a payment instruction and this is not received by your 
payees bank (or a correspondent bank of your payees bank), except where this is a result 
of your or your payees bank negligence (for example if you included the wrong payee 
details).
Although I can see the payment failure isnt Starlings fault and understand the approach 
they have followed, I cant see that Mr E made an error or the payee bank were negligent. 
Mr E made two payments using the same details and the first was successfully completed. 
This, and the information on file, shows it more likely than not that Bank A, who Starling use 
to provide international payment services, contributed to the payment being rejected and the 
refund not being returned. 
So, I dont think Starling treated Mr E fairly or reasonably. This was a payment for a very 
important event and, instead of leaving matters mostly to Mr E, Starling ought to have taken 
ownership. And, as they rely on an intermediatory bank for international payments, made 
immediate escalations with Bank A to provide another payment or refund. As Starling didnt 
do this, Mr E had to intervene and make other arrangements. And, because Starling left the 
refund unresolved, Mr E has been without his funds for some time and experienced stress 
and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
So, I think Starling should refund the £2590.48 and pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date Eurobank rejected the international payment. In addition, they should pay Mr E 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr E £2590.48. Also, to add 8% simple interest onto 
this amount from the date Eurobank rejected the international payment and pay Mr E £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman