DRN-4068942
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Tesco Underwriting Limited declined their claim for damage to 
their septic tank on their home insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs R have been represented by a third party throughout this claim and complaint. 
However for ease, Ive referred only to Mr and Mrs R in this decision. All references include 
the actions of the third party. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a home insurance policy with Tesco. In March 2022 they noticed a bad 
smell coming from their septic tank. They discovered that the baffle was damaged and the 
tank needed to be replaced. They made a claim on the policy.
Tesco sent an expert to inspect the tank and subsequently declined the claim. It said the 
damage had been caused by a build up of wipes in the system, which shouldnt have been 
disposed of in this way. And the soakaway had reached the end of its life causing waste to 
back up. It therefore said as the damage hadnt happened suddenly, but instead over time, 
there was no insured event and no cover under the policy.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with this. They said they didnt use wipes and had seen no 
evidence of any present in the tank. And they said the baffle had come away from the main 
system which would have happened suddenly so should be covered under accidental 
damage. They made a complaint but Tesco didnt uphold it. So they brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said there was no evidence that the damage happened suddenly and therefore Tesco had 
acted fairly by declining the claim as there was no insured peril. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco has declined the claim because it says there isnt an insured peril. Ive considered 
whether it has acted fairly in doing so. 
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to show that theres an insured 
peril  thats an event that is covered under the policy. Here the peril that may have applied 
is Accidental damage which is defined in the policy as:
sudden unexpected physical damage which has not been caused deliberately
Tesco sent out a loss adjuster and a drain expert to inspect and report on the damage. I 
have looked at the reports produced, and I can see that a build-up of wipes was identified as 
a possible cause of the damaged baffle. And the soakaway leading to the tank was also 
found to be backing up causing a blockage. The loss adjuster summarised the findings from 
the expert in its final report. In this it said:
The first is soakaway pipework which has become exhausted, i.e. it has reached the end of 
its life, causing the waste to back-up to the septic tank; along with this and the weight of 
wipes this has caused the internal component to partially collapse
There was no evidence to suggest Accidental Damage, and it is apparent that the failure is 
simply because the system has come to the end of its life
So the expert concluded that there were two possible causes of the damage to the baffle, 
and both are gradually occurring and not reasonably classed as sudden damage. 
The loss adjuster also said in his preliminary report:
The Insured advised that there have been no incidents in the garden in the vicinity of the 
septic tank location, no recent works in the garden, and no repairs to, or issues with the 
septic tank prior to March 2022.
So it seems there were no external incidents that Mr and Mrs R were aware of that may 
have caused the damage suddenly. 
I note Mr and Mrs R comment that they dont use wipes. And that the wipes would have 
entered the tank without making contact with the baffle, so they couldnt have caused it to 
become dislodged. It isnt the role of this service to determine the cause of the damage to a 
tank ourselves, by considering the make-up of the system. Instead we rely on the opinions of 
experts who have inspected the system themselves. So while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Rs 
account, theyve not provided any expert evidence to show that the findings of Tescos 
expert were incorrect. And as Tesco has provided an expert report that has identified two 
possible causes, as well as a report from its loss adjuster, Im more persuaded by these. 
Based on the findings of these reports, Im persuaded that the damage to the septic tank is 
most likely a gradually occurring cause. And for that reason, I think Tesco acted fairly by 
declining the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman