DRN-4001454
The complaint
Mr S complains that Unum Ltd has turned down a claim he made on a group income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events.
Mr S is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover for Mr S own occupation and includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In July 2021, Mr S was signed-off work, due to suffering with symptoms of anxiety. He was 
entitled to sick pay from his employer for a six-month period. In December 2021, Mr S 
employer arranged for Mr S to see an occupational health (OH) physician, who concluded 
that Mr S wasnt fit for work. So Mr S employer made an incapacity claim on the policy on 
Mr S behalf. Mr S noted that he was suffering from anxiety/stress overload experienced 
daily. 
Unum asked Mr S GP for medical evidence, in addition to the OH report it already had, to 
allow it to assess the claim. It also spoke with Mr S. Based on the evidence, Unum didnt 
think there was evidence to indicate that Mr S had a significant, impairing mental health 
condition. Instead, it concluded that Mr S was suffering from work-related stress. 
Accordingly, it wasnt satisfied that Mr S had met the policy definition of incapacity and it 
turned down his claim.
Mr S was unhappy with Unums decision and he appealed. But Unum maintained its 
position, so Mr S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He assessed the available 
medical evidence and he didnt think it showed that Mr S had been prevented from work by 
an illness. He considered the evidence showed that Mr S absence was down to work-
related stress. So he didnt think it had been unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr S hadnt 
shown that he met the policy definition of incapacity. And therefore, he concluded itd been 
fair for Unum to turn down Mr S claim.
Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He felt he had been diagnosed with an 
illness which met the policy definition of incapacity. He said that all anxiety needed a trigger 
 and he believed that much of his anxiety had been driven by the impact of lockdown 
isolation on his daily life. He felt work had become the centre of everything he did and it had 
become very stressful. Mr S said hed found going back into normal life stressful after 
lockdown ended. 
He acknowledged that his GP records referred to work-related anxiety but he felt this was 
suggestive of wider generalised anxiety disorder. The OH had referred to Mr S anxiety being 
caused by a combination of stressors, including those at work and externally. He referred to 
the OHs experience and that he placed weight on the OHs professional opinion. Mr S 
considered that both the claim form and call he had with Unum were too focused on work 
and hadnt taken into account issues in his home life. He stated that the GP had prescribed 
him with anti-anxiety medication and had issued fit notes which said he wasnt fit to work. He 
told us that since June 2022, hed been undergoing cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for 
anxiety. He felt that Unum had gone against medical opinion when it declined his claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Id like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr S needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of the group policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think 
Unum handled Mr S claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of his 
employers contract with Unum. Mr S employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to 
consider whether Mr S claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look 
at Unums definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that it was
Mr S illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial
duties of his own occupation, for the entirety of the deferred period and afterwards. The
policy doesnt cover Mr S being unable to work at a specific workplace or for a specific 
employer. Unum needs to be satisfied that Mr S would be unable to carry out the material 
and substantial duties of his own occupation at any workplace or for any employer.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim
on their policy. This means it was Mr S responsibility to provide Unum with enough
evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties
of his own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period between July 2021 and January 
2022 and afterwards.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr S provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he had a significant, impairing mental health condition or that he met the 
policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to 
assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
Ive first considered the GP records for the duration of Mr S deferred period. I can see that 
on 7 July 2021, the GP recorded that Mr S had been experiencing anxiety symptoms and had taken time offwants to have two more weeks off to sort out his thoughts etc. The 
notes show that Mr S was diagnosed with anxiety symptoms.
Further fit notes were issued later in July and August 2021, which stated that Mr S wasnt fit 
for work due to anxiety symptoms. There arent any detailed notes which explain the reasons 
why Mr S symptoms precluded him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
his own occupation.
On 6 September 2021, Mr S GP noted that Mr S was: making plans to return to work with 
manager but feels like his progress has stalled in the past 10 day. [sic] Worrying about 
having to go back to work and the circumstances around thisFeels like if returns wouldnt 
be able to cope and really doesnt feel ready at this point.
Subsequently, on 6 October 2021, the GP noted that Mr S had work related anxiety. They 
stated that Mr S had normal daily functioning, but palpitations when considers work. The 
GP stated that theyd encouraged Mr S to undertake a phased return in the next month or 
so, as prolonged absence could make it harder to return.
Again, in November 2021, the GP recorded that Mr S wasnt fit for work due to work related 
anxiety. And on 6 December 2021, the GP noted that Mr S has been off sick work related 
anxiety. This entry was followed by a further note a few weeks later which said Mr S: feels 
too much pressure/stress from work. 
Mr S employer referred him to an OH physician in December 2021. Ive looked carefully at 
their report. Ive set out below what I think are their key findings:
On this occasion, he described a combination of stressors at work and externally that 
combined to overwhelm his resilience and led to his current illness. Undoubtedly, pandemic 
conditions played a role
Functionally, his symptoms are predominantly anxietyhe gets physical manifestations of 
anxiety
This gentleman is unfit for work.
The OH recommended that Mr S should request CBT and an increase to his existing anti-
anxiety medication.
In March 2022, around two months after Mr S deferred period had ended, Mr S saw the OH 
physician again. The physician recorded:
Unfortunately, (Mr S) psychological health has been knocked back after his claim for 
income protection was denied. He reports low mood at symptoms of panic when thinking 
about returning to work.
The OH physician added: He does have significant psychological illness with anxiety and 
loss of confidence.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence
I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mr S was suffering from symptoms which can also be
indicative of a significant mental health condition and indeed, after the deferred period 
ended, the OH physician noted that Mr S had a significant psychological illness. Im 
conscious that Mr S was prescribed an increased dosage of his long-term anti-anxiety medication, it appears he was also prescribed a further medication and he was 
recommended to undergo for CBT by the OH physician, who diagnosed him with anxiety.
But, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to Unum, I
think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr S was
suffering from an understandable reaction to the work and external circumstances in which 
he found himself. And that the main reason for Mr S absence during the deferred period was 
likely the workplace stress he was experiencing as opposed to a mental health condition. It 
also appears, from the GPs records and the December 2021 OH report, that Mr S main 
triggers were concerns about work. And so I think this evidence points towards the cause of 
Mr S upsetting symptoms between July 2021 and January 2022 being the workplace issues 
he experienced. I think it indicates too that he was suffering from an understandable reaction 
to his personal circumstances and the impact of lockdown, rather than a functionally 
impairing mental illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial 
duties of his role.
This means I dont find that Unum acted unfairly when it decided that Mr S wasnt suffering 
from a significant mental health condition, during the deferred period, which prevented him 
from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his occupation. On this basis then, I 
dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr S absence wasnt due to incapacity in 
line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that Mr S absence during the 
deferred period was more likely due to workplace stress and a reaction to his circumstances.
I appreciate Mr S has referred to CBT therapy, which he underwent in June 2022, and a 
change in his prescribed medication. The CBT post-dates the deferred period. However, if 
Mr S would like to obtain further medical evidence to support that he was incapacitated in 
line with the policy terms during the deferred period, its open to him to accordingly send this 
on to Unum for review. If hes unhappy with the outcome of any further assessment of any 
new evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint about that issue alone. But, overall, 
despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ss position, I find it was fair and reasonable for Unum to 
turn down his income protection claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman