DRN-1713807
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service received from The Co-Operative Bank Plc when he needed 
help managing access to his account through its online services.
What happened
Mr C has an account with Co-Op which can be accessed using online banking (both via 
internet and an application on mobile devices). He is the sole account holder.
Mr C previously shared his access information with his ex-partner. He became concerned 
that his ex-partner may still be able to access his account through Co-Ops mobile 
application. So, in December 2019 he contacted Co-Op and asked it to help prevent the 
other party from accessing his account through the mobile application.
Mr C had to make several phone calls to Co-Op to discuss this over the course of a few 
weeks, often having to explain the situation again to new advisers. The matter was finally 
resolved in late January 2020. 
Mr C complained to Co-Op about the level of service provided. Co-Op apologised for the 
time taken to resolve the issue and acknowledged that this was likely to have been 
frustrating for Mr C. It offered him £75 for the distress caused. 
Mr C did not accept this offer and asked our service to consider his complaint. He didnt think 
the offer was reasonable or reflected the distress hed suffered believing that the other party 
may have had access to his accounts for a prolonged period while Co-Op dealt with this.
An investigator looked into the complaint. He agreed there had been delays in resolving the 
issue and could see Mr C had to make multiple calls to Co-Op. But he felt Co-Op had 
genuinely tried to assist Mr C and, as there had been no disputed transactions on the 
account, he thought the offer was fair.
Mr C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. He said the offer was insulting 
and didnt reflect the time hed spent dealing with this or the severity of the issue. He also felt 
there were still security issues with Co-Op arising from this, that might be affecting other 
customers, which needed addressing. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Mr C has mentioned he is concerned that there is a wider problem with Co-Ops online 
services, and how these are set up and accessed, that might affect other customers. I think it 
is important here to first to explain the role of our service. We are an informal dispute 
resolution service and our role is to look at individual disputes and decide what we think is the fair and reasonable way to resolve matters. Because of this, Ive only considered how 
Co-Op has dealt with Mr Cs complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account include a section saying that account holders 
must take reasonable steps to keep their accounts secure. One of the things the terms talk 
about is not allowing anyone else to use security details. Mr C doesnt dispute that he shared 
security details with a third party, which led to the situation he raised concerns about with 
Co-Op. So, this problem didnt start as a result of something that Co-Op had done. Which 
Ive taken into account. But at the same time, I understand why Mr C was concerned  
someone potentially having access to his accounts when he did not want them to would be 
concerning. And he acknowledged that hed shared details when he first spoke to Co-Op.
It isnt clear that the third party did have access to his accounts using the mobile application. 
When Mr C first contacted Co-Op he said he was concerned as he thought they might. But I 
havent seen anything to show that a third party could access his account that way. And 
there were no disputed transactions on his account  so there has been no direct financial 
loss. But I would still expect Co-Op to try and resolve the problem.
Co-Op has acknowledged that there were delays in dealing with this. It has said that it was 
trying to help, but it took time to understand how to resolve the matter and unfortunately the 
first few people that Mr C spoke to didnt choose the correct way to do so.
Ive listened to the calls Mr C had with Co-Op. And I agree that the people Mr C spoke to 
were trying to help and acted professionally. It does simply appear that, unfortunately, they 
didnt immediately understand the way to resolve this. At the same time, I can understand 
why this was concerning for Mr C and why the more he spoke to people that were unable to 
help, the more he became upset with the situation. 
Having listened to the calls, I think Mr C was consistent in explaining the problem 
throughout. And Im conscious that one of the first things that he requested Co-Op consider 
doing was what was ultimately done to resolve the issue. As the provider of the services, 
and therefore the expert in the subject, I think it was reasonable to expect Co-Op to have 
known what was required to resolve the issue sooner. But Mr C also said in more than one 
call to Co-Op that the party he believed had access to the account through the mobile 
application did or had worked for him and that they carried out genuine transactions from the 
account on his behalf. It was access to the mobile application which he was concerned 
about. So, I can also understand why it took Co-Op a little time to try and find a solution 
given these points appeared to be conflicting. 
I think Co-Op has made errors here  something it acknowledges. A solution couldve been 
found sooner. And I think the errors were understandably upsetting for Mr C. So what is left 
for me to decide is what is the fair way to address these errors. 
The issue was ultimately resolved, albeit a month after it was first raised. And as I mentioned 
Mr C has confirmed that there were no disputed transactions from his account  so there 
hasnt been a direct loss. He has said that the delay meant he couldve suffered a loss as 
someone couldve accessed his account. I cant recommend that a business pay 
compensation for a loss that did not happen. And again Im conscious that he said on more 
than one occasion to Co-Op that the third party carried out work for him in some capacity 
and made authorised transactions on his behalf.
I do think the delay, being given incorrect information and the time it took to deal with this 
was likely upsetting for Mr C  and he has mentioned the time he took dealing with this and 
his equivalent hourly rate. Again though we are an informal service and not a regulator. We 
do not fine or punish businesses for errors made, rather we decide what we think is the fair and reasonable way to resolve things. And taking into account everything Ive seen and 
heard in the circumstances, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, I think 
the offer of £75 made by Co-Op is fair.
My final decision
The Co-Operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint 
which I think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So my decision is that The Co-Operative Bank Plc should pay Mr C the £75 it previously 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman