DRN-3126694
The complaint
 Mrs S has complained that HSBC Bank Plc continued charged her excessive amounts for 
her overdraft, contributing to her financial difficulties.
What happened
 Mrs S complained to HSBC about the overdraft charges and interest that were being 
applied to her account. She said the charges were contributing to her financial difficulties. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs S was dissatisfied, she referred the complaint 
to our service.
Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulty by January 2017 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
didnt respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after January 
2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs S was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Mrs S was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. I acknowledge that Mrs S did receive some large credits to her account in the 
years before 2017, but these were invariably used to repay existing debts she had 
elsewhere, placing her current account once again in an overdrawn position. There were 
also repeated occasions where Mrs S seems to have gone over her arranged overdraft limit, 
another sign that she was struggling to manage her account. I think HSBC should have 
realised that Mrs S could be experiencing financial difficulties and that there was a risk her 
account was becoming unsustainable as she wasnt using her overdraft as intended. And so 
HSBC shouldnt have continued offering the overdraft on the same terms. As HSBC didnt 
react to Mrs Ss overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mrs S fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after January 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ss credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. HSBC should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman