DRN-3591199
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society closed her accounts and returned funds to 
its source.
What happened
Mrs F had a current account with Nationwide which she opened in February 2020. Shortly 
after she opened the account, she received three payments, of £0.47, £3.44, and £951.36 
from a third party, who Ill call A.
But in April, Nationwide received reports that the payments were fraudulent. Nationwide 
restricted the account while it carried out an investigation.
Mrs F discovered her account was restricted and contacted Nationwide.
Mrs F told Nationwide that A was her ex-partner, who she was divorcing. She said A had 
given her permission to use his online banking to make the transfers, which was money A 
had been keeping in a savings account on Mrs Fs behalf, as Mrs F didnt have a current 
account in her own name. She said that A only made the fraud allegations to cause 
problems during the divorce.
Nationwide said it told Mrs F that shed need to get A to retract the fraud report. Mrs F 
disagrees  she says Nationwide told her it was going to investigate things further and then 
get in touch again once it had done so. Nationwide transferred £591.48 to a sundries 
account and  as A hadnt retracted the report  decided to close Mrs Fs account. Mrs F 
withdrew the remaining funds in the account on 1 June 2020. She received a refund of a 
transaction after that date which she withdrew on 14 June. The account closed the same 
day.
Unhappy with all of this, Mrs F complained to Nationwide and referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. Nationwide had offered £50 for poor 
communication and service. Looking at everything, our investigator thought this offer was 
fair.
Mrs F doesnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Nationwides offer of £50 is fair. Ill explain why.
At its heart, this complaint arises from a dispute between Mrs F and her ex-partner, A. Mrs F 
says the monies she transferred to the Nationwide account belonged to her. She says they 
were being held on her behalf as she didnt, until 2020, have her own bank account.
But A, it seems, disagrees. Mrs F has said that, in correspondence with her solicitor, A 
denied knowing anything about the transaction. It seems A refused to remove the claim for 
fraud  even after Mrs F says she involved the police. And it doesnt appear Mrs F was able 
to recover the funds through the divorce.
I have every sympathy for Mrs F. I dont doubt shes had a very difficult time.
But in this decision I can only look at the actions of Nationwide. I cannot compensate Mrs F 
or hold Nationwide responsible for the actions of A. Nor am I in a position to determine that 
Mrs F and not A is entitled to the funds subject to this dispute. With this in mind, the main 
questions I need to consider are:
Whether Nationwide acted fairly in restricting and investigating the account,
Whether Nationwide acted fairly in returning the funds to A.
Whether Nationwide acted fairly in closing the account, and
Whether Nationwide treated Mrs F unfairly in any other way.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide had grounds to investigate and block 
the account. Nationwide had received a report from As bank that the payments were 
unauthorised. Given the information it had received, I dont find it unreasonable that 
Nationwide restricted the account while it investigated matters.
Nationwide accepts that the initial block prevented Mrs F paying direct debits. It says it 
shouldnt have done this. As a result, one of Mrs Fs direct debits went unpaid.
Nationwide then carried out its investigation. Mrs F contacted Nationwide and gave her 
version of events. As Ive said, she said she had As permission to make the disputed 
payments. Nationwide says it told Mrs F she needed to contact A and ask him to retract the 
fraud claim. Mrs F disputes this: she says she thought Nationwide was going to contact A, 
and that shed hear from it again once it had made the decision. She says it wasnt until June 
that she discovered funds had been returned to A and that Nationwide expected her to get A 
to retract the claim of fraud.
Ive thought about this. Based on what Mrs F has told us, it seems very unlikely that A would 
have withdrawn the fraud allegation  indeed, A doesnt appear to have done so in 
connection with either the divorce proceedings or after Mrs F tried to involve the police. So 
whether or not Mrs F understood she needed to get A to withdraw the claim, I think its likely 
shed have ended up in the same position. While I acknowledge the circumstances in which 
Mrs F says A made the fraud allegation, this isnt something I can hold Nationwide 
responsible for.
Nationwide then returned the funds. I dont find it unfair for it to have done this. It had 
received a report that the payments were unauthorised  and Mrs F had confirmed that she, 
and not A, had initiated the payment through As online banking. The payment came from an 
account in the sole name of A. The relevant regulations say that A would only be treated as 
having authorised the transactions if hed consented to them. When considered alongside 
the breakdown in Mrs F and As relationship, this raised the real likelihood that A hadnt in 
fact consented to these transactions. I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mrs F. But 
as A hadnt withdrawn the fraud allegation, I can understand why Nationwide concluded she 
wasnt entitled to these funds. I further note that Nationwide didnt return the whole value of 
the disputed transactions  it allowed her to keep the value of a benefit payment shed 
received from the government. I cant say it acted unreasonably.Next, I turn to Nationwides decision to close the account. The terms and conditions that 
applied to Mrs Fs account said that Nationwide could close the account immediately and 
without notice in some circumstances, and in all other cases by giving two months written 
notice. In this case, Nationwide says it kept the account open for a month to give A time to 
retract the fraud allegation  and then closed the account a month later. Mrs F says she only 
discovered this was going to happen when she asked about this in branch  and I see she 
withdrew the remaining funds in the account on 1 June 2020. After Mrs F received a further 
refund into the account, she withdrew the funds and the account closed on 15 June.
Mrs F knows the reason Nationwide closed the account: Nationwide had received a report 
that Mrs F had received fraudulent payments into the account. The account was newly 
opened and the disputed payments were the first payments into the account. Mrs F wasnt in 
a position to show she was entitled to these funds. It appeared that Mrs F had accessed As 
online banking and made transactions without his consent. In all the circumstances, I dont 
think the decision to close the account was unreasonable.
Ive gone on to consider if Nationwide treated Mrs F unfairly in any other way or needs to do 
anything further to put things right.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think Nationwide was justified in returning the funds subject 
to the dispute and closing the account.
But the initial block meant Mrs F missed a direct debit. Nationwide says it shouldnt have 
done this. I also see that Nationwides communications could have been clearer. Nationwide 
has offered £50 to put things right.
Ive thought about this. Where I award compensation for distress and inconvenience, this 
isnt to punish the business but to reflect the impact the businesss actions had on the 
consumer. Looking at Mrs Fs statements, I can see a direct debit was returned on 20 April, 
but  after the block was changed to allow direct debits  the payment was successfully paid 
on 29 April. So while I dont doubt it was distressing to learn about the missed payment, the 
impact on Mrs F was otherwise limited.
Mrs F also feels that because of the poor communication by Nationwide she lost out on the 
funds that were returned to A. But as Ive concluded it wasnt wrong for Nationwide to return 
these funds, I cant say that this has affected Mrs Fs position.
Finally, Ive considered Mrs Fs wider comments about the impact this all had on her. But 
while I dont doubt Mrs F has had a very difficult time, most of this relates to the actions of A. 
I cant ask Nationwide to compensate her for the actions of A.
With all this in mind, I think the £50 Nationwide has offered is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay 
Mrs F £50 for the trouble and upset it caused. I make no further award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman