DRN-1046178
The complaint
Mr D says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside a loan in 2001.
What happened
Mr D applied for a loan in 2001, and at the same time Nationwide sold him a PPI policy. The 
cost of the PPI was added to the loan - so Mr D would pay the extra he borrowed, with 
interest, as part of the monthly loan repayments.
Mr D thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr D didn't 
agree. The complaint has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered if Mr D understood he had a choice to buy the policy. Mr D says that 
during the application nothing was highlighted or mentioned about PPI - and he had no idea 
he had taken this out. He also says he would have signed anything in order to get the money 
he needed. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I've seen about the 
sale.
Nationwide says that Mr D bought the policy during a phone call - but because of the time 
that's passed, it no longer has a recording of this. But I see that the loan agreement does 
clearly say that the PPI was optional. I also see the PPI, and its costs, were listed separately 
on the loan agreement. For this reason, I think it's most likely Mr D knew he'd been sold PPI 
alongside this loan - even if he doesn't now remember doing this. As such, and given the 
limited information we now have about how this policy was sold, I think it's most likely that 
Mr D would have understood he had a choice, and chose to buy the policy.
Nationwide didn't recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didn't need to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
It's possible the information Nationwide gave Mr D about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr D chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time it doesn't look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Though Mr D says he'd get paid by his employer if he was off work sick, he also says his pay would reduce by half after six months - while this policy would 
have kept paying his loan repayment until he returned to work. The policy also covered Mr D 
for a year if he was made redundant. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I don't 
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
I've thought about everything else Mr D has said. He thinks Nationwide shouldn't have sold 
him the cover as he was a good customer who never missed any payments. I appreciate 
why Mr D feels this way. But this PPI policy was designed to make sure Mr D could still 
repay his loan if he unexpectedly lost his job or was off work sick. So this doesn't change my 
conclusions.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman