DRN-2341127
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in an accident. Advantage said it was a total loss but initially 
refused to pay the claim because, at the time of the accident, the car didn't have a valid 
MOT. But after Mr A showed that he'd had his car fixed and was on his way to take it to the 
MOT testing centre when it was damaged Advantage agreed to pay the claim. 
Advantages initial valuation for the car made two deductions from its market value:
10% for not having a current MOT; and
20% because the car had previously been declared a total loss.
Mr A didn't think that was fair. He said he'd had the work done to repair his car so the 
deduction for not having an MOT wasn't reasonable. He said he didn't know that the car had 
been a previous total loss. He also complained about issues with Advantages service 
including delays and having to spend hours on the phone sorting things out. Advantage 
acknowledged it hadn't got everything right. It agreed to remove the 10% reduction from the 
valuation for the lack of an MOT. It also acknowledged that some of its service could have 
been better. In particular because Mr A had spent a lot of time on the phone with it. And to 
address the impact of that it paid him £250 compensation.
Mr A didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didnt think Advantage needed to do anything else. Mr A 
didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr As made a number of detailed points. But I don't intend to 
address every one of those. Instead Ill focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues following our investigators assessment of the complaint.
Valuation
I can understand why Mr A wasnt happy that Advantages initial valuation was some 30% 
less than he might have expected. At the time of the accident Mr A had just had his car 
repaired in order to get it through its MOT. And he had an MOT test booked. So I don't think 
it was fair for Advantage to deduct 10% of his cars value because it didn't have a current 
MOT. But I was pleased to note that Advantage addressed this before Mr A brought his 
complaint to us. 
Advantage also made a deduction because Mr As car was a previous total loss. I 
understand Mr A bought his car in a private sale and didn't know it had previously been 
deemed a total loss. So Ive thought very carefully about whether or not it was fair for 
Advantage to make the 20% deduction.
It might help if I explain that cars that have been deemed a total loss, repaired and put back 
onto the road are often considered less attractive by potential buyers. And, as a result, they 
tend to have a lower value on the market, regardless of how well theyve been repaired. And, 
generally such cars can expect to have a valuation of around 20% lower than cars that 
haven't been deemed a total loss. 
There are tools readily available to consumers in the second hand car market that will 
quickly tell them whether or not a car has previously been deemed a total loss. Mr As 
acknowledged that he didn't use one of these tools to look into the cars history before he 
bought it. If he had its likely hed have seen that it was a previous total loss. He could then  
have decided if he still wanted to buy the car or if its price reflected the fact it was a previous 
total loss. 
Mr As told us that when he bought the car he paid £8,000 for it. I've checked the trade 
guides that value second hand cars. And, at the time he bought it, Mr A could have expected 
to pay between £9,200 and £10,097 for a car of that age and mileage. So it seems the 
amount he paid was between 13% and 21% less than he might have otherwise expected to 
pay. It follows that while I accept Mr A didn't know that the car was a total loss, the amount 
he paid for it was less than he might have expected. And Mr As policy says that, when 
settling a claim for the total loss of his car, Advantage would pay him its market value at the 
time of the loss for a car of a similar age, mileage and condition. And I think when assessing 
that valuation it was reasonable for Advantage to reflect the likely impact of the car being a  
previous total loss. It follows that I think Advantages valuation was fair.
Service
Mr A was also unhappy with Advantages service, he said it took too long to settle the claim. 
He had to spend hours on the phone and he had to keep paying for his insurance in the 
meantime. But given that Mr A had made a successful claim against his policy, he would 
always have had to pay the full years premium, so he hasn't had to pay any more for his 
premium because of any delay. Advantage has previously acknowledged that Mr As claims 
journey wasn't as smooth as it should have been. And that he had to spend longer on the 
phone than was reasonable. So it paid him £250 compensation for the impact of that. Im 
aware that Mr A doesn't think thats enough. But I think its a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances. 
Ill explain that, when deciding whether to award compensation and if so how much, I think 
about what's gone wrong and the impact thats had on the individual. But we don't calculate 
such awards using tariffs for particular wrongs. Nor do we use an hourly rate for a 
consumers time. And while I recognise that Mr A had to suffer delays and frustration, I'm 
satisfied that the £250 Advantage has already offered him is fair and reasonable to reflect 
his distress and inconvenience. So I'm not going to instruct Advantage to take any further 
action. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman