DRN-3427893
The complaint
Mr P is the executor of his sisters estate. He says that Bank of Scotland plc did not carry out 
proper affordability checks before issuing his sister with a credit card.  
What happened
In 2016 Ms P applied for a credit card with Bank of Scotland. Her application was approved 
and she was given a credit limit of £5,000.
Ms P initially used the credit card account to transfer a balance from a different account. She 
cleared the balance in 2018 but from 2020 began to use the card for retail purchases. 
Ms P died in January 2021. Mr P was appointed executor of her estate in July 2021. The 
grant of probate records that the estate was solvent, with a net value of a little over £77,000. 
Having reviewed his sisters finances, Mr P noticed that she had several credit card accounts 
and significant credit card debt. Her Bank of Scotland account was over its credit limit. He 
contacted the bank to say that he thought the lending had been irresponsible.
Bank of Scotland said that its own records indicated that Ms P had said in 2016 that she had 
an income of £32,000 and mortgage costs of £221 a month. Based on that and Ms Ps likely 
living costs it had been satisfied that she could afford the credit card. It did note however that 
Ms P had fallen into financial difficulties more recently and so agreed to refund interest for 
one year  totalling just over £1,000. 
Mr P did not think that offer went far enough and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator thought that, although the banks affordability checks were insufficient, more 
detailed checks would not have made any difference. That is, even if it had had a fuller 
picture of Ms Ps situation, it would still have agreed to lend. 
Mr P did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders, including credit card providers, should take steps to ensure that lending is 
affordable and sustainable before agreeing to it. What is required will vary depending on the 
circumstances, but that part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook which deals with 
consumer credit (known as CONC) requires checks to be proportionate. 
In this case, Ms P said that she had an annual income of £32,000. Mr P says that was not 
true and that Ms Ps bank statements showed no income. It appeared that she had been 
transferring savings into the account to pay credit card debt. 
In my view, however, it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to accept what Ms P had said 
about her income and expenditure without enquiring further  for example, by examining 
bank statements or seeking copies of pay slips. There was no particular reason to doubt 
what Ms P had said. The bank says too that Ms P had a Halifax credit card at the time (also 
issued by Bank of Scotland) to which regular payments were being made. There were no 
indications of financial difficulty.  
I note as well that the credit card account was initially used for a balance transfer. It is 
reasonable to assume that Ms P saved money by transferring a balance from a different 
card. So, even if I thought that proper checks had not been made, it does not appear that the 
banks decision in 2016 caused any financial loss to Ms P. 
In the circumstances, I think that the banks offer to reduce the sum owed by the estate by 
just over £1,000 is fair and reasonable.         
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve the 
estates complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman