DRN-2170630
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited when claiming on 
his Home Emergency Insurance policy.
What happened
In early April 2020, Mr W had no hot water or heating so made a claim to Aviva. An engineer 
attended and replaced a pump, which restored the heating and hot water. 
Mr W says he noticed the boiler wouldnt turn off, meaning it was running constantly. He 
says he couldnt report this sooner as hed been advised to self-isolate. But once it was 
reported, a second engineer attended and resolved the problem. Mr W says the first 
engineer didnt carry out sufficient checks and wants compensation for increased heating 
costs. 
Aviva says the engineer who completed the first repair wasnt at fault and the two issues 
were unrelated. Avivas opinion was that the second issue hadnt occurred as a result of the 
repair to the first issue. Aviva didnt feel it should pay any compensation to Mr W.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted that in the absence of any 
evidence suggesting otherwise, it was likely that the two issues were unrelated. As Mr W 
didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has an insurance policy with Aviva which provides cover for emergencies and other 
domestic incidents concerning his plumbing and heating, including a breakdown of the boiler 
and central heating system.
The only expert opinions Ive seen in this case are the notes from the engineers and the 
technical opinion of Avivas Service Excellence Manager (SEM). The notes from the first 
engineer confirm that a pump was replaced, and the system was run with no issues. The 
SEMs technical opinion was that the first engineer wasnt at fault, as the two issues werent 
related.
In deciding whats more likely than not, we normally rely on expert opinions. And if there are 
differing opinions, well consider which were more persuaded by.
I know Mr W feels strongly that the second issue was caused as a result of the first engineer, 
but I dont have any evidence to support this. The first engineer rectified the fault and 
restored the heating and hot water. Mr W has said hes spoken to several qualified people 
who support his views, but Im mindful that we havent been provided with any information 
directly from these people.
Looking at the gas usage graph Mr W has sent us, it seems to me that the usage didnt show 
deviation from the previous year until beyond the half way point between the March to June 
period. That would translate to an issue occurring mid-April at very earliest but likely beyond 
that. And so, that combined with what Aviva has presented, Im satisfied the issues were 
unrelated.
Its unfortunate that Mr W couldnt ask an engineer to re-attend until some time after he 
noticed the issue  but Im satisfied that once Aviva was aware, the problem was resolved 
promptly. Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly, and I wont require it to pay Mr W 
compensation or contribute towards his increased heating bill.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman