DRN-3624984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) has 
dealt with their claim for curtailment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy in 2019, underwritten by
Astrenska. In March 2020, they departed the UK on a 39-day trip abroad where they would 
visit a number of destinations.
On 23 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  formerly
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised all UK residents abroad to return
home, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs C were due to return on 24 April 2020 but curtailed their trip and returned early
on 28 March 2020.
Astrenska initially declined the claim but later settled it under the catastrophe section of the
Policy, which had a limit of £750 per person.
Mr and Mrs C said their claim should be covered under the curtailment section of the policy.
But Astrenska didnt agree and so Mr and Mrs C complained. Unhappy with Astrenskas
response, they referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Astrenska had acted fairly. He
recommended that the claim be covered under the curtailment section of the policy on the
basis that had they remained abroad, they would have been acting against FCDO advice
and they would have had no cover under the policy.
Astrenska disagreed and has provided further information which Ill summarise here:
Had Mr and Mrs C stayed abroad, they still would have been covered for any valid
claims under the policy.
There were a number of reasons Mr and Mrs C curtailed and it was not just as a
result of FCDO advice to return home. They werent able to continue with their trip as
a result of lockdowns and border closures.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 July 2022 in which I said:
The policy terms provide cover for curtailment due to a number of reasons including:
the death, severe injury or serious illness of you, or an immediate relative
complications of pregnancy
your home being made uninhabitable
you being unable to continue your tripdue to loss or theft of your passport
you or a travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire,
Nursing or Ambulance Services and you have to return to your country of residence
because your leave is unexpectedly withdrawn.
Mr and Mrs C curtailed their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel
to their intended destination. This isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which
curtailment cover is provided.
This means Mr and Mrs Cs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy.
Our investigator said the following exclusion applied:
We will not cover the followingany claim arising as a result of your travel to a
country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign and
Commonwealth Officeor the World Health Organisationhas advised the public
not to travel.
He said this meant that if Mr and Mrs C had stayed abroad they would have been acting
against FCDO advice and would have had no cover under their policy. And so the policy
would have been of no use to them. He found that the effect of the policy wasnt clear to Mr
and Mrs C and didnt think it was likely that they would have bought the policy if they had
realised there would be no cover if the FCDO advice changed. He concluded that it would be
fair and reasonable for Astrenska to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section.
Astrenska said it would have covered Mr and Mrs C for any valid claims had they been
forced to remain abroad. I asked it for a copy of its underwriting criteria which confirms cover
in the event they had remained abroad. Astrenska has provided confirmation that cover
wouldnt have been withdrawn. And so I dont think I can fairly say that Mr and Mrs C would
have been left in a position where they had no cover.
Astrenska has settled the claim under the catastrophe section which I think is fair. As there is
no valid claim under the curtailment section, I dont think Astrenska has acted unreasonably.
And so I cant fairly ask it to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs C have responded to my provisional decision and have made a number of points 
which Ive carefully considered. Ive considered everything theyve said even if I dont 
explicitly refer to it as Ive focused on whats key to my decision. In summary, they have 
made the following comments:
Theyve asked whether the claim has been considered under the emergency travel 
upgrade addition.The emergency travel upgrade section says: We also provide additional cover if your 
booked date of return is unexpectedly delayed for reasons beyond your control. As Mr and 
Mrs C returned earlier than their booked date of return, I dont think this section applies. It 
would apply if they were delayed past their original return date. They say their airline had 
suspended all flights past their original return date. But at the time they booked their return 
flights, they wouldnt have known how long the suspension was going to last. 
The general exclusions exclude claims where the FCDO has advised against travel 
and although Astrenska say they would have been covered, this isnt what the policy 
says.
Astrenska has confirmed cover would have been available in the event that Mr and Mrs C 
had a valid claim whilst abroad  this wasnt in the policy documents as it was something it 
decided in response to the pandemic.
Mr and Mrs C wouldnt know they would still be covered  and when they called 
Astrenska, they were told they wouldnt be covered if they continued to stay. 
Mr and Mrs C did have cover under the catastrophe section. I think it was reasonable for Mr 
and Mrs C to follow advice to return to the UK. But it doesnt necessarily follow that their 
claim should be covered. I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs C called Astrenska. 
But even if they did, Mr and Mrs C have told us that their decision to return home was based 
on the FCDO advice and the border restrictions for the countries they were due to visit rather 
than anything Astrenksa said. 
They say they had to curtail their trip not only because of FCDO advice but also due 
to border restrictions. They didnt have a choice of continuing their trip and they 
returned home in line with government advice. 
If Mr and Mrs Cs reasons for curtailing their trip are not covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy, I cant fairly ask Astrenska to cover them.
Under the cancellation section, they feel they are covered as a result of: a 
government directive prohibitive all travel to the country or area you were planning to 
visit, as a result of a natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire flood, hurricane or 
epidemic).
The policy confirms cover under the cancellation section ends when the trip starts and so the 
above term doesnt apply. It would only have applied if they had to cancel as a result of a 
government directive, before (my emphasis) they left the UK.
It would be reasonable to expect a policy to provide cover during a pandemic. 
Astrenskas criteria contradicts their policy documents and they were never provided 
with this or made aware of it which suggests mis-selling. Ultimately the point of 
purchasing travel insurance is to provide cover at times of unexpected disruption. 
The underwriting criteria I have referred to isnt the standard position Astrenska takes in all 
claims but was in response to the unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic. And so at 
the point Mr and Mrs C bought their policy, this criteria didnt exist. It was brought in 
afterwards. Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will 
decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy document. 
I appreciate the points Mr and Mrs C have made and can understand why they feel they 
should be covered for their curtailment costs. Im sorry to disappoint them but for the 
reasons set out above, their policy doesnt cover them for curtailment in their circumstances. 
As Astrenska paid the claim under the catastrophe section of the policy, I dont think it needs 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman