DRN-3149906
The complaint
Mr P complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided loans to Mr P as follows:
Date 
takenDate repaid Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
Loan 1 25/01/2019 11/03/2019 ££500 78 weeks £114.27
Loan 2 27/03/2019 07/08/2019 £750 78 weeks £171.43
Loan 3 31/08/2019 21/02/2020 £1,000 18 months £228.56
Loan 4 24/02/2020 20/05/2020 £1,000 18 months £228.56
Mr P said that if Loans 2 Go had looked properly at his situation it shouldve seen that 
these loans were unaffordable and never have lent to him. Mr P has also complained that 
the terms of the loans were unfair, as the interest rates were excessive.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr P brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. 
He didnt think Loans 2 Go should have provided Mr P with the loans as its checks showed 
that his credit spending represented a significant proportion of his monthly income that 
wasnt likely sustainably affordable for him at that level.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that it had 
worked out that Mr P always had disposable income, an amount somewhere between 
£195  £225 each month, which showed the loans were affordable. And Loans 2 Go said 
that the information shown on Mr Ps credit file was on the whole very positive and it saw 
nothing to suggest any further checks wouldve been necessary. 
Loans 2 Go asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on 
our website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan 
repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself 
that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to 
borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
And even if a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a 
borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide these 
loans. For loan 1, it did some background checks and verified that Mr Ps minimum 
income was approximately £1,424 monthly. After looking at the credit report information it 
gathered, Loans 2 Go increased the overall amount Mr P had said he was spending each 
month on all his outgoings and allowed for a total monthly expenditure figure of around 
£1,089.
When assessing affordability, Loans 2 Go also added a buffer of 10% to Mr Ps verified 
expenditure in order to allow for fluctuations in his monthly income or outgoings. Relying 
on this information, Loans 2 Go said that the £114.27 contractual loan repayment should 
have been affordable as it worked out he had monthly disposable income of around £220. 
Loans 2 Go didnt think that anything it saw on its credit checks suggested otherwise.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Loans 2 Go had carried out a proportionate check before 
agreeing to lend to Mr P. I've noted that Loans 2 Go has disagreed on this point but I dont 
need to comment on this further because it isnt relevant to why I am upholding this 
complaint. 
Like our adjudicator, I think its fair to say that the credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained 
showed clear signs that Mr P might already be financially over-stretched and in serious 
financial difficulty.
I agree with Loans 2 Go that it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to 
have a credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these 
things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application. But I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that when Mr P 
applied for this loan his debt servicing costs to existing creditors were already around 
£500 monthly. So by the time he needed to pay for this loan as well, this meant he would 
need to spend more than £600 each month on paying credit debt. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that this amount was such a significant proportion of his take 
home pay (by my reckoning, an amount not far short of half), it was a clear indication that 
Mr P was, in reality, already experiencing financial difficulty and maintaining this level of 
debt was likely to be unsustainable.  Also, bearing in mind that the loan purpose wasnt stated, I dont think Loans 2 Go wouldve 
had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add to Mr Ps overall indebtedness and 
worsen his existing financial difficulty. So I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the 
loan for this reason.
Loans 2 Go followed a similar application process each time Mr P applied to borrow a new 
loan. But I dont think it properly took into account his credit spending relative to his income 
when it made its lending decisions each time and it unfairly provided all these loans. I say 
this because despite affordability calculations Loans 2 Go caried out, the reality was that his 
level of debt servicing costs relative to his take home pay was always such a significant 
proportion of his net income that it was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay this 
borrowing over the loan terms.
I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr P took out new loans with Loans 2 Go shortly after 
repaying his previous borrowing and the loan amounts increased over the period, reflecting 
the shortfall he faced after repaying the previous loan and his reliance on obtaining further 
credit to make up the gap this left in his finances. 
The fact alone that he repaid loan 4 without borrowing further from Loans 2 Go doesnt mean 
that he was able to do so in a sustainable way. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing any of these loans to Mr P wouldnt put him in a worse position 
by increasing his overall debts unsustainably.
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ps complaint that he should not have been given any of 
these loans.
As far as I can see, Mr P hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about the high cost of the loan and the amount of interest payable. 
So I dont think I need to say more about this part of his complaint other than to mention 
that I did also think about this and independently I reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. Taking everything into account, I think Mr P was aware he was taking high 
cost loans on terms he told Loans 2 Go he was happy to agree to at the time.
This means that I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to 
award any additional redress.
But, taking everything into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to 
provide the loans to Mr P. And as Mr P has been further indebted with expensive 
borrowing that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as 
a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr P shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed.
If Loans 2 Go sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 - 4. The repayments Mr P made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
remove any negative information about loans 1  4 recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman