DRN-3209568
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made a mistake when it 
refunded a payment she made to her credit card. As a result, Miss B says shes incurred 
higher credit card costs. 
What happened
Miss B has a credit card with Halifax. On 30 November 2018 Miss B paid £30 towards the 
outstanding balance. On 11 December 2018 Miss B paid £46. On 21 December 2018 Halifax 
took a direct debit payment for £100 from Miss Bs bank account. On 24 December 2018 the 
£100 payment was manually returned to Miss Bs current account. Miss B says she didnt 
request the refund which put her credit card balance over the agreed credit limit. 
Last year, Miss B complained to Halifax but it didnt agree it had made a mistake by 
refunding the £100 payment to her bank account. Miss B referred her complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Halifax had dealt with Miss Bs 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss B asked to appeal and said shed 
provided evidence to show the bank had made an error that had led to overcharges and a 
negative impact on her credit card. As Miss B didnt agree with the investigator, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline in this case. The key issue is the £100 refund Halifax processed on 
24 December 2018. Miss B says she didnt ask Halifax to refund the payment. But Halifax 
says the request came from Miss B.
Theres no call recording or note available from December 2018 that specifically records 
Miss Bs request for a refund. So theres no direct evidence Halifax was asked to refund the 
payment. Where information is disputed or incomplete Ill base my decision on the balance 
of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred based on all the 
available information and evidence. 
Halifax says that whilst it cant provide a call recording or note, a refund of this nature 
wouldnt be processed unless requested by the customer. The refund wasnt an automatic 
direct debit refund  it was a manual payment applied to Miss Bs bank account. Ive looked 
at Miss Bs statements and can see the £100 that was taken from her credit card on 24 
December 2018 was then deposited in her bank account. Im satisfied this wasnt an 
automatic process. 
Looking at Miss Bs credit card statement, I can see she made payments totalling £76 before 
her £100 direct debit was taken by Halifax. I think its more likely than not that Halifax was 
asked to refund the direct debit following the other payments made to Miss Bs account. The 
information Ive seen doesnt indicate Halifax made an error.
I know Miss B says the £100 refund led to her account balance exceeding the agreed credit 
limit. But I think the increased account balance came about due to transactions made on 
Miss Bs credit card during the statement period. In addition, I think its fair to note that 
Halifax sent Miss B regular statements that showed the refunded payment. I havent seen 
anything that shows Halifax sought to hide the refund or misled Miss B.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss B but I havent found that Halifax made a mistake when the 
payment was refunded in December 2018. As Im satisfied Halifax dealt with Miss Bs 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman