DRN-3672650
The complaint
Mr P complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited asked him to pay for shares 
that he doesnt think he legally owns. He has asked for his money back plus costs and 
interest.   
What happened
Mr P placed orders with Interactive to buy around £55,590 worth of shares in one 
company. For ease I will call it company A. Mr P placed this order on 30 May 2022.   
Mr P had opted for the transactions to have a settlement of 20 working days. The 
settlement date, this being the date Mr P needed to pay for the shares, was 29 June 
2022.
On 24 June 2022, trading in the shares of company A was suspended. This was 
because company A went into administration. 
Mr P said he tried to close his position with the shares on 25 June 2022. This was a 
Saturday when the market was closed. But he had put in his request to be actioned by 
Interactive on 27 June 2022. Interactive didnt carry out his request, so he said he 
attempted to close his position in the shares again on 27 June 2022, but again 
Interactive couldnt execute his order.
Interactive said this is because Mr P asked for the shares to be sold on both occasions. 
It said this was a different transaction and not a cancellation or reversal of the first 
transaction which it executed on 30 May 2022. It said it was unable to carry out Mr Ps 
instructions on 27 June 2022 because trading had been suspended in company A.   
Interactive said Mr P had bought the shares on 30 May 2022 and was able to sell them 
from this date all the way up to 24 June 2022 when trades in the shares were 
suspended. It said the extended settlement terms were agreed by Mr P and were on the 
basis that he had longer to pay for them. It said that Mr P had entered into a contract to 
pay it for the shares, and he was liable for them.
Mr P wasnt happy with Interactives response so referred his complaint to our service. He 
summarised the issues he was unhappy about. He said he did not consider he was liable for 
the costs of the trades. He said this is because the legal share transfer could not take place 
on 29 June 2022 and so he was not legally the owner of them.   
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr P had bought 
the shares on 30 May 2022 and was liable for the cost of them. He said he could have 
sold them at any time up to the date trading in the shares had been suspended. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mr Ps complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
Mr P said that he was not the legal owner of the shares. He said he ordered the 
shares on 30 May 2022, but his order was unable to be settled on 29 June 2022. 
He said this was because the shares had been suspended on 24 June 2022. He 
said he was not the legal owner of the shares as they had not settled, therefore 
he shouldnt have to pay for them. 
Mr P said he had been asked to pay a significant sum to settle shares by 
Interactive for which he is not liable as it was not able to complete its obligation 
and complete the legal transfer of the shares on the settlement date. 
Mr P also said he tried to close his position on the shares on 27th June 2022 on 
two occasions but Interactive did not carry out his instructions. He said there was 
still time before the settlement date to close his position on the shares. 
I have looked into Mr Ps complaint and have carefully read his comments to 
understand his argument here. I have also read the terms and conditions 
provided by Interactive. I have read the terms that Mr P has referred to in his 
complaint.
I understand what it is Mr P is saying, about his purchase of shares in Company 
A on 30 May 2022. But on this occasion, I dont agree with his views about what 
has happened here or how he has interpreted Interactives terms and conditions.
Mr P purchased shares in Company A on 30 May 2022 and it was at this point 
that he had entered into an agreement with Interactive that he would pay for the 
shares on the settlement date. This is stated in Interactives terms and 
conditions. It says in section 3.6 by placing an order for the purchase of 
investments, you agree that you will have sufficient cleared funds in your account 
on the date when you are required to make payment to settle the trade. It is 
clear to me when I read this term that Mr P had made a commitment when he 
placed an order on 30 May 2022, under the terms laid out by Interactive that he 
would buy them. So, from this point, they were his shares. I think this was 
particularly so, as he was able to sell them from the moment he ordered them to 
the date that trading in the shares were suspended on 24 June 2022. 
Mr P has referred to a section in Interactives terms and conditions that he says 
shows that it shouldve done more. But I dont think Interactive was required to do 
anything more than it did here and simply in its terms was saying that it would 
use reasonable endeavours where it can to settle a transaction. In this instance it 
had ordered shares for Mr P. The shares were his and available to sell up to the 
point of settlement and then the shares were suspended for trading. I cant see 
on balance that there are any failings here in the way Interactive fulfilled its 
obligations.
Mr P said he asked Interactive to close his position on the shares in company A 
twice on 27 June 2022 and this was before the settlement date. But I can see 
that Mr P wasnt in fact closing his original order to buy the shares. He was trying to sell the shares in a separate transaction. And this explains why Interactive 
were unable to do what he asked  because trading in the shares of company A 
had been suspended at this stage so it couldnt sell them. 
 
Looked at overall, I dont think Interactive did anything wrong  so theres nothing it needs 
to do to put things right. Mr P has also recently said he has paid for the shares.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P and acknowledge that he will not 
be happy with the outcome. but I hope he will at least feel that his complaint has been fully 
considered and that the way I've set things out helps to explain how I've reached my 
conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman