DRN-4280544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect them 
when Mr W fell victim to an investment scam.
While this case concerns the loss of funds from a joint account owned by both Mr and Mrs 
W, the payments were instructed by Mr W. He also pursued the subsequent complaint with 
Nationwide. So, for simplicity I have referred only to Mr W throughout my decision.  
What happened
Mr W came across an advert for an investment opportunity with a company, which Ill refer to 
as M, via a social media platform. The company offered investments in stocks and shares, 
and crypto. Reassured that Ms company website looked professional and legitimate Mr W 
made an initial investment of £100. Soon after he was contacted by someone purporting to 
be an account manager who persuaded Mr W to make further investments. He advised Mr 
W payments would need to be made in euros, so he advised him to open accounts with two 
electronic money institutions (EMIs) - which Ill refer to as W and R  although Mr W 
already had an account with W. 
 
On 12 and 16 December 2022, Mr W made payments of £4,000 and £2,500 to W. From 
there Mr W transferred the funds into what he understood was an investment trading 
platform. In reality, he was transferring the funds into the control of the scammers. 
In January 2023, Mr W was persuaded to take out a £10,000 personal loan with Nationwide 
to enable him to keep investing, as hed exhausted his personal savings. But when he tried 
to transfer the funds to W, Nationwide intervened. Mr W told Nationwide hed taken out the 
loan to carry out building work at his home but had decided to invest it when his building 
works were delayed. Nationwide explained that loan funds could not be used for investment 
purposes, and it was agreed Mr W would repay the loan within the cooling off period. 
When Mr W tried to withdraw his funds from the platform he was told it was not possible at 
the time, and that he would need to invest a further £10,000.  Mr W was initially told that M 
would credit his account with £10,000 as a gesture of goodwill, but he was later told he 
would need to make further payments himself. To meet the deposit requirements Mr W took 
out two personal loans with third party banks and borrowed money from a relative. Mr W was 
also persuaded to download software that allowed the scammer access to and control of his 
device.  
Between 24 January and 7 February 2023 Mr W made a further eight payments to his 
accounts with W and R. Nationwide intervened again on 7 February 2023, before it 
processed his payment of £10,000. During this call Mr W said that the payment related to 
home renovations and that he was transferring it to R so he could make purchases in 
another currency to save money. He denied hed been advised by anyone else to make the 
payments, or that hed downloaded any software to allow access to his device and said that 
he was aware of the scam risks. 
In total Mr W made or attempted the following payments from his Nationwide account:
 
Date Transaction type Amount
12 December 2022 Transfer to W £4,000
16 December 2022 Transfer to W £2,500
14 January 2023 Card payment to R £20
20 January 2023 Attempted transfer to R (£10,000  prevented)
24 January 2023 Card payment to R £1,300
27 January 2023 Card payment to R £2,694
28 January 2023 Card payment to W £2,908.70
28 January 2023 Card payment to W £3,009
6 February 2023 Transfer to R £5,500
7 February 2023 Transfer to R £4,500
7 February 2023 Transfer to R £10,000 
8 February 2023 Transfer to R (£8,500  recovered)
Total loss £36,431.70
Mr W realised hed been scammed when he was unable to make a withdrawal despite 
making further deposits. He contacted Nationwide for help recovering his lost funds and 
complained that it should have done more to advise him of the risks before allowing him to 
make the payments. Nationwide was able to stop the final payment of £8,500 leaving his 
account, but it refused to refund any of the funds lost to the scam. It said the initial payments 
in December 2022 didnt flag on its system as unusual  it noted Mr W was paying accounts 
in his own name and hed previously made payments of a similar size from his account in the 
past. It said when it did speak with Mr W in January and February 2023, it had provided him 
with a scam warning, advising that scammers may offer unrealistic returns and they can 
convince people to take out personal loans based on the belief that theyll be able to make 
sufficient returns to repay the loan quickly. Despite these warnings, Mr W decided to 
continue with the payments. 
Mr W was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. He said Nationwide had failed to properly warn him about the risk of 
fraud and scams. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that the initial payments in 
December 2022 werent sufficiently unusual or suspicious that Nationwide should have 
intervened at an earlier point. She was also satisfied it had acted reasonably and provided 
Mr W with adequate warnings based on what it knew at the time. She noted that as Mr W 
had not been honest about the reasons for his payments Nationwide was unable to detect 
the scam or provide a more tailored warning. As such, she did not think Mr Ws loss could 
reasonably have been prevented. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. In summary he said: 
Nationwide should have intervened when he instructed the first payments in 
December 2022 as they were out of character for his account. Had it done so he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments. He said that as he was at the 
beginning of his relationship with the scammers, he believed the scam could have 
been uncovered at that point. 
He was genuinely looking to carry out home renovations, and so he hadnt misled 
Nationwide either when applying for the loan or when speaking with it in January. He 
said he was also open and honest with it that he planned to invest the loan funds. Nationwide missed an opportunity in January 2023 to uncover the scam, as it didnt 
ask him about his proposed investment and only sought to prevent him from 
spending the loan funds. 
Nationwide missed a further opportunity to intervene when he later took out other 
personal loans and transferred them to his account with R, despite him previously 
advising it of his intention to invest loan funds.  
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws points but wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She 
also noted that Nationwide had asked Mr W about his intended investment. Mr W had been 
asked if he was being advised by anyone, to which he replied no. He was also advised that 
scammers often encourage people to take out loans believing theyll be able to make 
sufficient profit to repay them quickly, but despite this warning Mr W didnt reveal anything 
about the proposed investment that would have helped Nationwide uncover that he was 
falling victim to a scam.  
In reply, Mr W said as English is not his first language, maybe he had not understood the 
conversation with Nationwide fully. But given that he was at potentially at higher risk of being 
scammed he would have expected Nationwide to have adopted an alternative customer 
awareness approach, such as inviting him into a local branch or sending him written scam 
warnings. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will be extremely disappointing to Mr W. I dont underestimate the 
financial and emotional impact falling victim to this scam has had on him and his family.  But 
for the reasons Ill go on to explain I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Im sorry to hear Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to 
recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Nationwide to refund his losses if it can fairly 
and reasonably be held responsible for them. 
It is accepted that Mr W authorised each of the scam payments from his Nationwide 
account. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr W is presumed 
liable for his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, 
where a valid payment instruction has been received, Nationwides obligation is to follow the 
instructions Mr W provides. 
There are, however, circumstances where it might be appropriate for Nationwide to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help 
protect its customers from the risk of financial harm from fraud. But Nationwide would only 
need to intervene and ask more questions about the payment if an instruction was 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. Ultimately, there is a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. So, the starting point for me is to consider whether any of Mr Ws payment instruction were 
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, taking account of his usual usage. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ws account statements from February 2022 to February 2023 when the 
scam occurred, which Im satisfied gives me a reasonable picture of Mr Ws usual spending. 
While the first two scam payments were not completely in-keeping with his day-to-day 
spending, I cant reasonably conclude they were sufficiently unusual or suspicious that 
Nationwide ought to have intervened. I note that Mr W had made several payments ranging 
from £3,000 to nearly £7,000 in the year before the scam, so it was not unusual for him to 
move money from his account in the sums that were initially involved in the scam. The 
payments were also being made to accounts in his own name, which would not on the face 
of it appear high risk. So, I agree with our Investigator, that there was no requirement for 
Nationwide to intervene before it processed the first two payments. 
Nationwide did intervene, as I would have expected it to, several times when Mr W 
attempted to make payments of £10,000. 
Ive listened carefully to calls that took place on 20 and 21 January 2023 and 7 February 
2023. Having done so, Im satisfied that Nationwide asked Mr W appropriate questions to 
understand the reasons for his payments and to assess if he was potentially at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud. 
Unfortunately, Mr W did not give Nationwide an accurate account of what had happened or 
what led him to make the payments. 
Mr W said the loans had been taken out to finance building work, which had been delayed, 
and later that he was making payments to his R account to purchase building materials in a 
different currency. While I accept that Mr Ws long-term goal may have been to use his 
invested funds to finance building works, Im not persuaded that this was what had motivated 
him to make the payments in question  particularly given the initial £10,000 loan was 
applied for the day before Mr W attempted the payment to R. He also said he was not being 
advised by anyone else and had decided to invest the money himself, which was not 
accurate as he was being advised by M and the account manager. And when asked if hed 
downloaded any software to allow anyone else access to his device, he said no. 
Nevertheless, Nationwides advisers provided Mr W with appropriate warnings relevant to 
the facts as it understood them at the time. In all calls Mr W was advised he was speaking 
with fraud professionals who were trying to protect him from falling victim to any potential 
scams. He was asked to be completely honest in his answers to help Nationwide protect him 
from potential financial loss and warned that if he went ahead, he would be liable for his 
losses. In the first call, Mr W was warned that he would be acting in breach of the loan terms 
and conditions if he invested the loan funds. He was also specifically warned that scammers 
often suggest scam victims take out loans on the promise that they will double or triple their 
money and then be able to repay the loan quickly, but that in reality this just results in a 
greater loss to the victim. Despite this closely mirroring what hed been told, Mr W did not 
heed this warning when he was later persuaded to take out a further loan to finance his 
investment. 
While Mr W has suggested, in hindsight, he may not have fully understood what he was 
being told in these calls, Im satisfied Mr W was able to engage fully during all conversations 
I listened to. He was able to listen to and respond appropriately, and in detail, to the 
questions he was asked. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr W informed Nationwide of 
any additional support he would need with communication. And so, Im satisfied Nationwide 
acted reasonably in its dealings with Mr W over the phone, and I do not agree it was necessary in the circumstances for it to have asked him to attend a branch or anything else. 
And even if it had Im not persuaded it would have made a difference. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide took appropriate steps to warn Mr W about the risk of 
scams, including highlighting features I would have expected to particularly resonate with 
him (i.e. the use of loan funds to finance investments). Despite this Mr W carried on with the 
payments. In the circumstances, I consider Nationwide acted reasonably in processing Mr 
Ws valid payment instructions. As a result, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or 
should have prevented his loss. 
Having been alerted to the scam, Nationwide was able to prevent Mr Ws final payment 
leaving his account. I dont think it needed to do anything further in terms of attempting to 
recover his funds as all payments had been made to accounts held in Mr Ws name and 
control. As such, had any funds remained Mr W would already have had access to them. 
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr W being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Nationwide to refund his loss if I 
thought it was responsible for it  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything 
considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Nationwide liable in these circumstances. It 
follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman