DRN-2861584
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his loan account and placed a default on his
credit file. He wants the default removed and the original loan terms reinstated.
What happened
Mr I had a loan with HSBC. Which was opened on April 2018.
Following a review of his account HSBC blocked and closed his accounts. HSBC wrote to
Mr I in April 2019 to notify him that they were terminating the loan agreement and asked for
immediate and full repayment of the loan.
Mr I contacted HSBC to arrange a repayment plan. HSBC agreed to allow Mr I to continue to
pay the loan in line with the original loan agreement.
Mr I continued to make payments on his loan. However, four months later HSBC registered
a default against him.
Mr I told us that the default has had an impact on his ability to get credit.
HSBC said he had missed a payment on his loan account.
Mr I complained to HSBC, they said they were entitled to close the loan account and relied
on the terms and conditions.
Mr I was unhappy with their response so complained to our service. One of our investigators
looked into the complaint. He said the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the criteria
for closing the loan in the terms and conditions had been met and thought HSBC shouldnt
have asked for payment in full. Our investigator thought that as Mr I was keeping up with his
repayments a default shouldnt have been loaded against him.
HSBC didnt agree with our investigator. In response they said they were able to request
immediate and full payment of the loan by relying on the terms and conditions.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
In my Provisional decision I said:
This complaint turns on the interpretation of the terms and conditions of the account. Ive
looked at these in order to decide if HSBC acted fairly when they demanded payment of the
loan in full. The terms and conditions that HSBC rely on to require immediate and full
payment are set our below:
(a) you do not make repayments on time; or
(b) we find that any information you provided as part of your loan application was materially
incorrect or misleading; or
(c) you are declared bankrupt or have similar proceedings taken against you; or
(d) we reasonably suspect any fraud or other criminal activity in connection with this
agreement and/or any other facility or account that you have with us.
In any of these cases, we can:
 demand immediate repayment of the loan;
Ive looked at the evidence provided by HSBC and third parties and Ive considered the
wording of the terms and conditions. Having done so Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly
when they relied on the terms to request full and immediate payment of the loan.
Mr I has said that HSBC agreed to new repayment terms with him. Ive seen evidence that
Mr I contacted the bank on the 20 April 2019 explaining he was unable to pay the loan back
in full. I have seen that he was sent a letter dated 30 April 2019 from HSBC where they said
their decision to demand full repayment remained the same. I have seen no evidence HSBC
agreed to a new payment plan as Mr I has said.
Ive seen evidence of a letter HSBC sent to Mr I dated 14 June 2019 demanding repayment
of the full amount of the loan. The letter mentions that failure to pay the full amount will result
in enforcement action and a default being registered with Credit Reference Agencies. Im
satisfied that as the loan wasnt paid in full, it was fair to register the default.
In summary taking everything into consideration Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly in
demanding full and immediate payment of the loan and in registering the default against Mr I
and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
So subject to any further representations by Mr I and HSBC I was minded to not uphold the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr I has made no further comments. HSBC have said they have nothing further to add.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered these Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman