DRN-2784400
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ferratum UK Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr G was provided with one loan by Ferratum in October 2018. The loan was for £200 with 
just under £250 repayable the following month.
Mr G says that at the time of the loan he had several other short term loans with other 
providers and had several late and missed payments recorded on his credit file. He has 
explained that he was gambling heavily and that this would have been clear from the checks 
carried out on him by gambling websites and the transactions in his bank statements. Mr G 
says that Ferratum didnt carry out adequate checks before the loan was provided.
Ferratum says that before the loan was provided information about Mr Gs income and 
expenses was requested. It says Mr G was required to provide accurate information and it 
was reasonable it would rely on what was provided. It said it also carried out a credit check 
and based on the information it received the loan appeared affordable. It says that the loan 
wasnt repaid on time and it was contacted about Mr G entering a debt management plan 
and so the account was transferred to its collections partner.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think it would have been 
proportionate for Ferratum to have carried out further verification and based on the checks 
the loan appeared affordable.
Mr G didnt accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that he didnt think that the checks 
carried out before the loan was provided were adequate. He said that although it was his first 
loan thorough checks should have taken place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payment was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payment being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayment. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G was provided with one loan by Ferratum. I understand the point he has made about all 
lending needing to be subject to thorough checks, but as set out above I think it is 
reasonable that less through checks can be proportionate in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
In this case, Mr Gs income was recorded as around £1,500. The repayment amount for the 
loan was just under £250. Having considered that this was Mr Gs first loan and noting the 
term and repayment amount compared to his income I think that asking about his income 
and expenses and carrying out a credit check were proportionate checks. 
It is reasonable to expect that the information provided by a consumer is accurate. However, 
I would expect further checks to take place if the information provided raised concerns. I 
have looked at Mr Gs application and can see his income is declared as around £1,500 and 
he is noted as being employed. I think it reasonable this information was relied on. The 
application I have seen doesnt show any information regarding Mr Gs expenses. Ferratum 
has said that he was asked about these and I think it reasonable that Mr G would have 
provided some details. However, I wouldnt expect at this stage in the lending relationship 
and considering the size of the loan, that copies of his bank statements would have been 
requested. Therefore, while I understand the points Mr G has made I do not find at this point 
the level of verification and checks were required that would have shown the issues Mr G 
was experiencing and that the loan was unsustainable.
Ferratum carried out a credit search and while this showed a historic default no defaults or 
delinquent accounts were recorded in the previous 12 months. Having looked through the 
credit search information I do not find I can say that this raised concerns that meant further 
checks were needed.Overall, while I understand the points Mr G has raised, I find it reasonable to accept that the 
checks in the early stages of a lending relationship such as this can be less thorough and 
still considered proportionate. Had Mr G continued to be provided with loans by Ferratum 
then I would have expected more detailed checks to take place. Based on what I have seen I 
do not find that the I have enough to say that Ferratum should have been reasonably aware 
that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr G therefore I do not find I have enough to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Ferratum UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman