DRN-4010490
The complaint
Miss As complaint arises out of a mortgage account held with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. 
Miss A says that, during an application to port her mortgage interest rate product onto a 
mortgage on a new property, BOI:
discriminated against her because of her disability;
refused to discuss the application with her broker;
unfairly charged an early repayment charge (ERC);
unfairly charged three valuation fees.
To settle the complaint, Miss A wants the bank to ensure it doesnt discriminate against other 
customers in her position. Miss A also wants BOI to reimburse all the monies that they have 
received from me over the years and to pay compensation for disregard and treatment.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 2 December 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss A being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Miss A has a mortgage with BOI originally taken out in 2006 on a self-certified basis (that is, 
where no proof of income was required). The original loan amount was just under £100,000, 
with £75,000 on a capital repayment basis. In August 2009 Miss A converted the mortgage 
wholly onto an interest-only basis.
The mortgage was on a fixed rate product taken out in 2018. If it was repaid either in full or 
in part before 31 December 2023 an ERC would apply  3% of the amount repaid up to 
31 December 2022 and 2% of the amount repaid up to 31 December 2023. The mortgage 
conditions allowed an overpayment of up to 10% of the balance each year without incurring 
an ERC. 
In March 2019 Miss A applied to port the interest rate product onto a new mortgage on 
another property. A valuation was carried out and a mortgage offer was issued. However, 
the transaction didnt proceed because the sale fell through.
In January 2021 Miss A wanted to port the interest rate product onto a mortgage on another 
property. The valuation report revealed that the property didnt meet BOIs lending criteria 
and the application was declined. Miss A appealed but BOI didnt change its decision.
In March 2021 Miss A found another property and wanted to proceed with her application to 
port the interest rate product. She was told  incorrectly  that BOI couldnt discuss the 
application with a mortgage broker. However, this issue was resolved within a few days and 
after that BOI was able to proceed with the application, with Miss A being assisted by the 
broker. Miss A was reducing her mortgage to £45,000, on an interest-only basis.
A valuation was carried out in May 2021, the offer was issued in June 2021 and Miss As 
sale and purchase completed on 13 September 2021. Because Miss A wasnt porting the full 
amount of her previous mortgage, she paid an ERC on the difference between the amount 
paid to redeem that mortgage (£90,223.64) and the amount she was porting onto her new 
mortgage (£45,000).
On 12 October 2021 Miss A made a part redemption of £4,500, the maximum available from 
the 10% overpayment facility. On 26 October 2021 Miss A made a part redemption of 
£17,000 and was charged an ERC on this.
Miss A complained about the service shed received from BOI. Miss A said that she felt 
discriminated against, both emotionally and financially, by the bank because she is reliant on 
benefits. Miss A also said that BOI refused to speak to her mortgage broker and that when 
the bank eventually did agree to do this, the banks phone call on 30 March 2021 was 
45 minutes late.
Miss A said her broker wanted to see if BOI could offer a better rate, but the bank wasnt 
able to do this, which Miss A thought wasnt fair. 
In addition Miss A wasnt happy that, on redeeming her existing mortgage and porting the 
interest rate product onto her new property (but for a lower amount), she was charged an 
ERC on the difference between the amount repaid and the amount ported. Miss A said that 
when shed first started the process in 2019, BOI hadnt mentioned at any point that thered 
be an ERC payable. 
Miss A says her broker and solicitor advised her to go ahead with her sale and purchase, 
and complain afterwards to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Miss A took this advice, and 
after completion she raised a complaint that shed been subjected to poor treatment and 
discrimination by BOI. 
Miss A said that she made the part redemptions of £4,500 and £17,000 in October 2021 
because if shed retained this money it would have affected her entitlement to benefits. 
Miss A thought it was unfair and discriminatory for BOI to charge an ERC on the second 
payment. Miss A said that this was on the advice of her broker, who had made sure I had 
requested enough money on the mortgage so that I would leave enough for solicitors and 
estate agent, any monies left could be paid back to BOI.
Finally, Miss A thought it was unfair that shed had to pay three valuation fees (which Miss A 
refers to as search fees). Miss A says that in March 2019 the buyer backed out at the last 
minute without giving a reason. In November 2020 BOI refused to lend on the property, even 
though loads of buyers had mortgages on their flats and then Miss A had to pay another 
valuation fee on the property she finally purchased.
In response to the complaint, BOI acknowledged that the call on 30 March 2021 was late, 
and offered compensation of £150 for this. But BOI didnt uphold the other parts of Miss As 
complaint. Miss A escalated the complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. He wasnt persuaded BOI had discriminated against Miss A, or that the ERCs 
and valuation fees had been unfairly charged. He thought the £150 for the customer service 
issue was fair and reasonable.Miss A said she didnt think the investigator had done a good enough job and so asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some sympathy with Miss A, who first began her house move in March 2019. For 
various reasons outside of her control, it took until September 2021 for Miss A finally to 
move to a new property. I have no doubt this has been a very stressful time for her. 
However, what I have to decide is whether BOI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation 
to the issues Miss A has raised.
Discrimination: Miss A says that BOI discriminated against her because she is in receipt of 
benefits. However, Im not persuaded this is the case. 
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has 
led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
Miss A was reducing her mortgage by about 50% from the amount redeemed, and I can see 
that when BOI first looked at the application in March 2019, the bank agreed that an 
exception should be made to the usual affordability requirements, in accordance with the 
MMR regulations I have mentioned above.Given this, there is no basis on which I can find that BOI discriminated against Miss A in 
relation to her application to port her mortgage interest rate product. BOI went outside its 
normal lending criteria to approve the application.
Broker: I see in its final response letter that BOI has accepted that it had incorrectly advised 
the broker that it couldnt liaise with her on this application. This issue first arose on 
10 March 2021 and was resolved on 25 March 2021. BOI also acknowledged that a call 
scheduled for 30 March 2021 was 45 minutes late. BOI offered compensation of £150 for 
this, which I think is fair and reasonable, and proportionate to the error. Im not ordering BOI 
to do anything more.
Miss A says that her broker asked BOI if it could offer her a lower rate of interest, but the 
bank wasnt able to do so. However, a new rate would have required a full application (for 
which an application fee might have been payable), as well as an affordability assessment, 
and payment of the ERC on the full £90,000+ on redemption of the mortgage. If Miss As 
broker had thought this would have been a better option (after taking into account the costs 
that would have been incurred in closing the old mortgage and taking out a new mortgage on 
a different interest rate product), it was up to the broker to advise Miss A of this.
Valuation fees: Miss A paid three valuation fees for three separate mortgage applications. 
Its part of the mortgage application process for BOI to instruct a surveyor to carry out a 
valuation. This is to ensure that the property (a) is worth the amount the mortgage applicant 
says it is worth and (b) offers suitable security for a loan. There is a fee payable for this 
service, which is non-refundable.
In relation to the first valuation fee, a mortgage offer was issued, but the transaction fell 
through. This is unfortunate, but isnt uncommon. Miss A has told us that the buyer withdrew 
without notice. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to order BOI to refund the fee where 
the bank wasnt at fault and has carried out the service for which the fee was paid.
For the second valuation fee, after considering the valuation report, BOI concluded that the 
property offered as security didnt meet its lending criteria. BOI is entitled to set its own 
lending criteria. Decisions that BOI makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to 
risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on 
what terms are clearly discretionary matters for BOIs own commercial judgement that I 
would not interfere with.
Miss A appealed the decision not to approve the application, and the bank reconsidered the 
matter, but wasnt able to change its decision.  Given this, Im satisfied that BOI gave fair 
consideration to this application and so there is no basis upon which I can find that BOI has 
treated Miss A unfairly or unreasonably or that it should refund the second valuation fee. 
Miss A received the service the fee paid for  an assessment of the propertys suitability as 
security for the money she wanted to borrow, even if the outcome wasnt to her liking.
Miss A hasnt said why she thinks its unfair for BOI to have charged a valuation fee on the 
third mortgage application. The valuation resulted in a mortgage offer which Miss A 
accepted, enabling her to purchase her new property. The fee was charged fairly, Miss A 
received the service it paid for, and so theres no basis on which I can reasonably find that 
BOI should refund it.
ERCs: Miss A says that no mention was made of any ERC when she began the porting 
process in 2019. However, Im satisfied that Miss A would, or should, have been aware from 
the product documentation when she took out her five-year fixed rate in 2018 and from her 
annual mortgage statements that an ERC would be applicable if the mortgage was repaid in 
whole or in part before the end of the fixed-rate period.Furthermore, because Miss A was given advice by her broker, it was up to the broker to 
explain that there would be an ERC payable both on redemption of the existing mortgage 
(because Miss A wasnt porting the whole amount) and on the part redemption Miss A made 
in October 2021. If the broker didnt explain this to Miss A, I cant hold BOI responsible.
Im satisfied that the ERC paid on redemption of the mortgage was fairly charged. This is 
because Miss A wasnt porting the full amount onto the new mortgage. As a result, an ERC 
was payable on the difference.
Miss A was able to make a 10% reduction to the new mortgage without an ERC, which she 
did shortly after completion. However, I understand that if Miss A had more capital than a 
certain level permitted by the Department of Work & Pensions, this would affect her 
entitlement to benefits. 
Miss A had received more than the permitted level of capital from the proceeds of sale, and 
therefore needed to reduce this down to the permitted level. As a result, Miss A made a 
further capital reduction to the mortgage of £17,000, on which an ERC was charged. The 
ERC arose because Miss A had already used up the annual 10% allowance when she made 
the £4,500 payment. The ERC was charged in accordance with the contract terms and I can 
find no basis on which it was unfair for BOI to charge this. 
It cannot be said that BOI discriminated against Miss A by applying the ERC, simply 
because she needed to reduce the mortgage in order to retain her benefits. I completely 
agree with Miss A that she is entitled to the same treatment as other customers, regardless 
of her disability. However, discrimination is where a person is treated in a worse way than 
other customers because of their disability or some other protected characteristic (as defined 
in the Equality Act 2010).
In this case, if BOI had waived the ERC, the bank would have been treating Miss A better 
than other customers who are not disabled and who have to pay an ERC on making a 
capital repayment in excess of the 10% annual allowance. The ERC was applied not 
because Miss A is disabled; it was applied because she was making a part redemption of 
her mortgage. By treating Miss A the same as all other customers in the same situation, I am 
satisfied the bank has not discriminated against her by applying the ERC to the part 
redemption in line with the terms of the mortgage contract Miss A agreed to.
Conclusion
I know this isnt the outcome Miss A wanted, but Im unable to find that BOI discriminated 
against her, or that the fees charged for the valuations and ERCs were either unfair or 
incorrectly charged. I think the £150 already offered for the late phone call on 30 March 2021 
is fair compensation, and Im not ordering the bank to do anything further. I simply leave it up 
to Miss A to decide if she wants to accept the £150 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman