DRN-3319587
The complaint
Mr F complains that TransUnion International UK Limited merged his credit file with a third
partys. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr F has explained that in 2020 two credit limits for credit cards he holds with his employer 
were substantially reduced. In early 2021 another business reduced a credit cards limit by 
around £6,000.
Mr F later found that his details had been merged by TransUnion with a third party of the 
same name. The third party had adverse credit, including credit cards with Mr Fs employer 
and a County Court Judgement.
After Mr F raised his concerns with TransUnion it took steps to correct his credit file and 
apologised. Mr F went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint and asked TransUnion to pay him 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
TransUnion accepted but Mr F asked to appeal. Mr F said that whilst the error had been 
resolved, his available credit had reduced by around £15,000 without any guarantee hell be 
able to obtain the same limits again. Mr F also pointed out he holds two credit cards with his 
employer and that its decision to reduce his credit limit on both (totalling around £10,000) 
had caused significant levels of embarrassment and inconvenience. Mr F further explains 
that he has a public role that requires him to ensure he has no adverse credit. 
Mr F didnt agree the £150 compensation fairly reflected the impact of TransUnions mistake. 
As a result, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties broadly agree about what happened in this case. Ive seen the TransUnion credit 
report that contains the wrong information and it has adverse credit, including a CCJ, on it. 
Mr F has explained that due to the incorrect entries, his creditors substantially reduced his 
credit limit. I can see that Mr Fs available credit card limits were reduced by around 
£15,000. Whilst Mr F wasnt using those limits, I think its reasonable to say the businesses 
involved could well have taken that step in response to the incorrectly merged information on 
his credit file. The corrected TransUnion credit report shows Mr F didnt have any adverse 
credit in his own name.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Fs complaint. Mr F says he doesnt agree the 
compensation of £150 fairly reflects what happened and I agree. In Mr Fs case, he works for 
a business that provides credit cards and has two accounts with them. Mr F has pointed out 
the adverse credit reported on his credit file couldve caused problems at work and was very 
embarrassing. And whilst I understand the issues were corrected, I can appreciate the level 
of distress caused to Mr F was higher as his credit card provider is also his employer.
Mr F has also explained he holds a public role that means he cant have adverse credit. 
Again, I can understand why having someone elses adverse credit shown on Mr Fs credit 
file wouldve been particularly worrying for him.
Im pleased the issue was corrected but I dont think the current award of £150 fairly reflects 
how the situation impacted Mr F. To resolve Mr Fs complaint I intend to increase the 
compensation to £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. In my view 
that figure more fairly reflects what happened and how Mr F was affected.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments they wanted me to take into 
consideration when decision how to resolve this complaint. Mr F confirmed he was willing to 
accept. We didnt har back from TransUnion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has supplied new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Fs complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. As a result, Im going to proceed in line with my provisional 
decision and uphold Mr Fs complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TransUnion International UK Limited to 
pay Mr F £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman