DRN-4107994
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him when he was the 
victim of a crypto investment scam.
Mr M is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr M throughout 
this decision.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M said he made an online enquiry with a company (who Ill refer to here 
as W) about investing in crypto. He said he was keen to supplement his income due to the 
Covid lockdown.
Mr M said hed seen positive online reviews about W and its website looked very 
professional and included references to awards it had won. Hed also discussed the 
investment opportunity with friends and family  who had agreed it was a great idea. Mr M 
said he spent a good while researching [W] and had no reason at that time to believe W 
wasnt a legitimate investment company, and it had been his choice to approach W and to 
invest. 
Mr M registered his interest with W and provided identification documents to facilitate the 
setting up of a trading account in his name. Mr M said he was able to access his trading 
account and see live reporting of stock trades. W also posted daily YouTube videos 
offering advice on what to invest in. Mr M said the videos had over 1000 subscribers. 
On 8 June 2020 Mr M contacted Monzo to say:
 Im just giving you guys a heads up that I will be transferring about £6500 to 
Blockchain later this week  so no need to flag it as fraudulent.
Monzo replied to say:
Thanks for letting us know. Your outbound transfer limit is £10,000 per day so this 
shouldnt be an issue. 
On 10 June 2020 Mr M transferred £2,500 from his Monzo account to an account in his 
own name via an embedded payment platform. The payment reference was Bitcoin. He 
said W told him this was a trial phase of the investment, and the money could be returned 
at any time. Mr M made another payment on 16 June 2020 for £4,000 and a final payment 
on 13 July 2020 for £1,000. 
These payments were to international accounts  the details of which Mr M says were 
provided to him by W who told him these were their liquidity providers. None of these 
payments flagged by Monzo as suspicious. But Mr M was sent warnings through his 
banking App, which included one specific to investment scams. Mr M said:
I read the warning but felt no risk in sending the money as I was led to believe that 
[W] was perfectly legitimate. 
Mr M said that during the investment  hed received several professional and friendly 
emails from W  and could see from his trading platform that his investment had grown. 
He said he was also able to make a test withdrawal into his crypto wallet and received 
regular statements from W containing accurate personal information, as well as a 
numerical breakdown of how the investment was doing. 
In November 2020 Mr M attempted to withdraw £20,000 from his trading account. After 
various stalling tactics by W, spanning several weeks, and a lack of response to his 
emails, Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr M contacted Monzo about the scam on 21 December 2020 via its chat function. He 
explained what had happened and how hed seen there was now a Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) warning about W. Monzo attempted to recover the funds, but on 24 
December 2020 it told Mr M that no funds remained. Monzo investigated the case but told 
Mr M there was nothing more it could do as the payments had been sent internationally. 
Mr M, via his representatives, complained to Monzo in October 2022. Essentially, he said 
Monzo hadnt intervened in any of the payments or provided effective warnings. If it had, 
Mr M thought the scam wouldve been uncovered and his loss prevented. 
Monzo said it wasnt responsible for Mr Ms loss. It said Mr M hadnt carried out enough 
due diligence before investing and shouldve known the investment was too good to be 
true. It also said there was literature available to Mr M on its website that he shouldve 
read to protect himself from scams. Monzo also said that as the first payment was to an 
account in Mr Ms name, and the subsequent payments were international, the CRM code 
didnt apply. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He maintained Monzo hadnt done enough to protect him and shouldve 
intervened in the payments given their size and destination. He wanted the funds returned, 
plus 8% interest, as well as £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think the 
payments were unusual or suspicious enough to have warranted intervention from Monzo. 
But even if intervention had taken place and an effective warning given, our Investigator 
thought Mr M was likely to have continued with the transactions. She also thought Monzo 
had taken reasonable steps to try and recover the lost funds. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. He thought the 
amount and destination of the payments was unusual account activity and highly 
suspicious. And this, combined with his young age making him vulnerable to scams, 
shouldve resulted in the payments being flagged by Monzo.
Mr M suggested the type of questions Monzo shouldve asked him about the payments  
which if it had  he said wouldve encouraged him to carry out further checks and try to 
make a withdrawal before making a further deposit. 
Mr M said hed subsequently found negative reviews and warnings about W from around 
the time of the investment. He said these shouldve been known to Monzo as part of its 
watch list and he maintained that Monzo shouldve identified that he was dealing with a 
fraudulent company and stopped the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr M was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear hes been the victim of a scam and 
has lost money as a result. I can understand why hed want to do all he can to recover 
the money he lost. But I need to decide whether Monzo can fairly and reasonably be 
held responsible for Mr Ms loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why.
I should first point out that Monzo had an obligation to protect Mr M from financial harm, 
irrespective of what happened to the money after it left his Monzo account. And so, Im 
considering Mr Ms complaint about Monzo on that basis. 
I accept the transactions Mr M made were authorised payments, even though he was 
the victim of a sophisticated crypto investment scam. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mr M when he made the payments, specifically whether it shouldve done 
more than it did before processing the payments  and if it had, would that have made a 
difference. 
I dont believe the first payment for £2,500 made on 10 June 2020 was sufficiently 
unusual to have alerted Monzo to the possibility of a fraud or scam. While this is larger 
than other payments made on Mr Ms account in the previous 12 months, its not an 
unusually large amount in more general terms, and I must bear in mind that its not 
uncommon for people to make large payments from time to time to a new beneficiary in a 
normal operating bank account. The payment was also sent to an account in Mr Ms 
name. And so, all things considered, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably here.
Arguably, the second payment of £4,000 made on 16 June 2020, to a new (international) 
payee, was more suspicious. But again, this isnt an unusually large amount, and was 
made six days after the first payment. The next payment on 13 July 2020 of £1,000 was 
again to a new (international) payee but was for a lower amount than the previous two 
payments and was made a month after the £4,000 payment. Im also mindful that Mr M 
alerted Monzo to the fact he was making these payments on 8 June 2020  specifically 
asking that they not be flagged as fraudulent. Taking all this into account, on balance, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably in not 
flagging any of the payments made by Mr M in relation to the scam.
That said, whilst I think its enough that I dont think intervention was warranted to not 
uphold this complaint, for the sake of argument and completeness, Ive thought about 
whether any interaction between Mr M and Monzo  either at the point he told Monzo he 
was transferring money to Blockchain, or during any of the payments, wouldve made a 
difference. And I dont think it wouldve done.
Mr Ms initial contact with W was because hed enquired about investing in crypto. He 
wasnt contacted out of the blue or pressured into investing  it had been his choice. The 
payments were also not made in very close succession  and decreased in value. So, not 
the classic hallmarks of an investment scam. 
Mr M also had access to his trading account, YouTube videos specific to his investment and 
was in receipt of statements and emails from W - all of which appeared to him to be 
genuine. He was also able to make a small withdrawal. 
Im also mindful that Monzo sent warnings to Mr M via his banking App. Those warnings 
specifically referred to investment scams  and provided a link to check if the company a 
customer is dealing with was legitimate. But Mr M has said he didnt act on any of these 
warnings, as he was convinced nothing was untoward. I think, therefore, hed have been 
unlikely to have acted on a more tailored warning by Monzo if it had intervened in the 
payments. 
I can also see from Mr Ms interactions with W just prior to the scam coming to light that he 
was looking to refer a client to W who wanted to invest circa £50,000 which would provide 
Mr M with a very generous commission. This suggests to me that Mr M was so convinced 
by the scam that he was introducing others to it  something I think hed have been unlikely 
to do if hed had any concerns his own money was at risk. 
Mr M has said he spent much time researching W but saw nothing of concern. Hes now 
mentioned negative reviews about W which hes been able to find from 16 June and 12 
July 2020, as well as a wealth of indications online that this was a scam. But these reviews 
were not seemingly of concern to Mr M at the time  and there was no regulatory warning in 
place until 15 July 2020  after hed made the last payment. So, even if Monzo had 
uncovered the existence of W during its conversation with Mr M and checked its 
legitimacy, its unlikely to have found anything of concern. 
And if it had suggested to Mr M that he carry out further checks  given how convinced he 
was about the legitimacy of W because of the checks hed already undertaken, as well as 
reassurances from his friends and family  I think it unlikely hed have carried out those 
further checks, but if he had, that hed have found anything that led him to believe the 
investment wasnt genuine. 
All this suggests to me that its more likely than not Mr M wouldve proceeded with the 
transactions here  even if Monzo had done more to alert him that the investment couldve 
been a scam. Its not for Monzo to provide investment advice to Mr M, nor can it be 
expected to know about adverse online reviews suggesting an investment company is 
fraudulent. I think it wouldve taken something more credible, like regulatory warnings about 
W, to have made Mr M pause and think more about his decision to invest. And in the 
absence of such warnings, I dont find Monzo couldve reasonably done more to prevent his 
loss. Id still expect Monzo to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds when Mr M alerted it 
to the scam. I can see Monzo contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as Mr M made contact 
on 21 December 2020. But it had confirmation on 24 December 2020 that no funds 
remained. Monzo acted promptly here to try and recover the lost funds and so I cant say it 
shouldve done anything more. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr M has been the victim of a 
sophisticated crypto investment scam. But I dont think any reasonable action from Monzo 
at the time of the payments is likely to have made a difference. So, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to hold Monzo accountable for Mr Ms loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman