DRN-3555856
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) couldnt answer his 
questions about why it sent him a replacement phone following a successful claim under his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had mobile phone insurance through his bank account, underwritten by AGI. He 
accidentally dropped his three-month old phone and the screen cracked. Mr S claimed under 
his policy, paid the excess and sent his phone to AGI.
AGI sent Mr S a replacement phone of the same make and model because it couldnt source 
the parts to repair his broken phone. Mr S asked AGI why it didnt just replace his screen, 
how old the replacement phone was and what parts it couldnt get to fix his original phone. 
AGI couldnt provide the information.
Mr S complained to AGI because he couldnt understand why it didnt just replace the screen 
and he phoned several times to get the matter resolved. AGI responded to say it had 
replaced his phone in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, but it couldnt provide 
the information he wanted because it didnt record the phone age or parts which were 
unavailable.
 
Unhappy with the response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think AGI had done anything wrong. She said AGI had handled the claim in line with 
the policy.
Mr S didnt agree. He said AGI hadnt treated him fairly because it couldnt provide the 
information he wanted. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr S hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue is that Mr S is unhappy AGI replaced his mobile phone with a refurbished one, but 
it couldnt tell him how old the replacement phone was or the part that was unavailable to 
allow for a repair of his phone.
Policy requirements
To begin with, Ive looked at what AGI shouldve done in the circumstances. The policy 
explains how AGI will settle a claim, as follows:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either:
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If we 
cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
Replacements
(1) This is not new for old insurance, and replacement devices will come from fully 
refurbished stock (not brand new).
In summary, AGI shouldve repaired Mr Ss phone or, if it couldnt, it shouldve replaced it 
with one of the same make and model. AGI replaced Mr Ss phone because it couldnt 
source a part to complete a repair. As the replacement phone was one of the same make 
and model, there was no requirement under the policy to contact Mr S to offer him a choice 
of phones of equivalent specification.
So, Im satisfied that AGI handled Mr Ss claim in line with the policy.
Information request
Mr S explained to AGI that while he didnt want to have a refurbished phone he might accept 
that providing AGI could reassure him that it wasnt significantly older than his original 
phone. He also wanted to know what part, exactly, AGI couldnt source. AGI told Mr S it 
didnt have the information he wanted because it had no need to record it. 
From this point, Mr Ss complaint escalated. Ive listened to the seven call recordings from 
when Mr S first made his claim to the final one in which he tells AGI it hadnt done enough to 
resolve his complaint and he didnt think that was fair.
Its clear that being without his phone for as short a time as possible was an important factor 
when Mr S first made his claim, and I can understand that given the personal circumstances 
he described. AGI explained the timescales for handling the claim and the evidence shows 
me that it stuck to those timescales. Mr S had a replacement phone within four working 
days. 
AGI recorded that it couldnt source a replacement part. The evidence doesnt say what that 
part was, although Im minded to agree with Mr S that its more likely than not the screen that 
wasn't available. Thats because it was the screen that cracked, Mr S had already tried to 
source a replacement without success, the repair notes say physical  part not available, 
and the phone was classed as beyond economical repair for non-technical reasons. This 
suggests to me that it was the physical aspect of the phone  the screen  which couldnt be 
replaced rather than there being a technical issue. The phone isnt a common one, so I can 
see why it might be difficult to source a new part within the three days to repair timescale, 
and why AGI decided to replace it with a refurbished handset.
I dont think Mr S necessarily disagrees with this. But he says AGI should record details of 
the attempted repair and it shouldve told him it couldnt get the part so he could make an 
informed choice. However, as Ive already said, the policy doesnt require AGI to do anything 
more than replace with the same type of phone if it cant repair the original. While I 
understand Mr Ss frustration that AGI hasnt recorded the repair detail, and I accept that he 
considers that odd, I cant see that AGI did anything wrong. It replaced the phone in line with 
the policy and I cant ask AGI to give information it doesnt have.
The same applies to the age of the refurbished phone that AGI sent to Mr S. Again, I 
understand why hed be frustrated that his three-month old phone was replaced with one 
that couldve been a year or more older, and more so that AGI cant tell him how old the 
phone is. But AGI doesnt have that information to give him and it would be wrong of me to assume that the refurbished phone was significantly older than Mr Ss original phone. The 
only indication of age that Ive seen in the evidence is the manufacturers warranty. The 
manufacturer provides a two-year warranty with new handsets. The replacement phone AGI 
sent to Mr S had the full two-year warranty, taking it to January 2024. The warranty on Mr 
Ss original phone, assuming it had a two-year warranty from new, wouldve expired around 
September 2023. So, I cant fairly say Mr S has been disadvantaged by AGIs decision to 
issue a replacement phone.
In summary, I can see why Mr S wanted answers to his questions and I can understand his 
frustration at going round in circles trying to get AGI to give the information or at least say it 
was unusual not to have a record of the information he wanted. But the evidence suggests 
that AGI simply didnt have the information to give, regardless of how odd Mr S might find 
that. So I dont think it was unreasonable of AGI to be transparent about not recording the 
information when trying to respond to Mr Ss complaint. 
AGI settled Mr Ss claim as Id have expected it to, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and the evidence doesnt support Mr Ss complaint that it didnt treat him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman