DRN-3679102
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money paid from his 
account by direct debit over several months. 
What happened
Mr T said that he was auditing his accounts and noticed some direct debits that were paid in 
error, so he requested a refund under the direct debit guarantee. He wants Santander to 
give him a full refund of the direct debits, and he said that he expects proportionate 
compensation for the effort, stress and time it has taken him to deal with this matter. The 
direct debits that are in question were collected from his account late in 2014 and early 
2015. Most of the amounts were for around £50 with the last one collected in April 2015 for 
approximately £26. 
In October 2021, when Mr T contacted Santander to raise a refund under the direct debit 
guarantee, Santander asked him what the issue was with these direct debits, and why they 
were being claimed several years later. Mr T replied that it was an error through global 
overpayment. And when probed for further information, he told Santander that the 
payments should not have gone out and that the correct overall amount was zero. 
Santander tried to get a further understanding of the situation surrounding the direct debits, 
explaining that they needed this information to support any claim, and to see evidence of any 
error before processing. Mr T only reiterated that the amount was taken in error when 
should have been zero. He also told Santander that he doesnt need to be more specific, 
and that they need to honour the guarantee whereby he quoted that If an error is made in 
the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your bank or building society, you 
are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from your bank or building 
society.
Santander kept asking what the error was and stating that they needed further information. 
When no further information was provided, they told Mr T to progress the direct debit dispute 
with the merchant directly. They also said that they were unable to carry out the direct debit 
indemnity due to the timescale of the previous direct debits and the information Mr T 
provided them in terms of the reason for the direct debit indemnity.  
Mr T was unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt think that Santander have acted unfairly.  
Mr T disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events and points raised in this 
complaint. But I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I 
dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr T said that he was auditing his accounts and only then noticed some direct debits that 
were paid in error. But I think the main purpose of the direct debit guarantee is to provide 
protection to customers who have provided originators with access to their accounts in order 
to collect money, and I dont think its intended for use as a means of recovering historic 
payments many years later. I believe, most likely, genuine errors in payments come to light 
relatively quickly, and when that is the case, I would expect a bank to provide a refund 
immediately. But where several years have passed, and several payments have been made, 
I think that calls into question whether a claim is valid. I say this because its more usual for 
someone to notice that something was not right and to have questioned things sooner. So, in 
such circumstances, I think its not unreasonable for a bank to have further questions before 
immediately providing a refund, as is the case here, where the payments on Mr Ts account 
were taken over a period of several months, and the transactions dated back to 2014 and 
2015. 
Also, I realise that Mr T believes that the guarantee is absolute; meaning that he is not 
initially required to provide further information/evidence which would show why an error has 
occurred. So, Ive considered whether the direct debit guarantee was sought to apply in this 
way, bearing in mind the circumstances of his particular case. And I think most likely the 
wording of the guarantee means that the entitlement to a refund isnt absolute, as Mr T 
believes. 
The direct debit guarantee makes it clear that a refund is only due where an error is made. 
So, it is understandable that Santander asked Mr T for further information, because in doing 
so they were attempting to establish whether there was a valid ground to apply the direct 
debit guarantee. The only limited information Mr T gave them was that it was an error 
through global overpayment and that the payments should not have gone out and that the 
correct overall amount was zero. So, I think considering the circumstances of this case, 
Santanders approach is not unreasonable and consistent with the direct debit guarantee. 
And I dont think it would be fair for me to direct them to take any further action in relation to 
Mr Ts complaint, without further information that would allow them to ascertain that an error 
has indeed occurred.
Overall, I appreciate the difficulties that Mr T is experiencing, but taking all the circumstances 
of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr T has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman