DRN-1894175
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent his bank 
account statements to his ex-partner.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr T removed his ex-partner from their joint accounts, so all the 
accounts were in his sole name. However RBS continued to send a copy of his statements 
to his ex-partner at her address.
Mr T says one of the reasons he had separated from his ex-partner was that she kept 
asking him for money. And he says their separation wasnt amicable. As RBS was sending 
his bank statements to his ex-partner, she was able to see details of his finances including a 
loan he had taken that had been paid into the account. He says his ex-partner began asking 
him for money again, knowing his financial situation and that this caused him a great deal of 
stress. He says he ultimately had to move into protected local authority housing as a result 
of this situation.
RBS acknowledged the mistake and corrected its systems. It offered Mr T £100 
compensation.
On 23 April 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
In this complaint, there is no dispute that RBS has made an error  it has acknowledged 
this in its final response letter to Mr T. So my role is to decide how RBS should put things 
right.
Mr T has said he would like £1,000 for every three months this issue has continued. But 
this services role is not to punish RBS, so I wouldn't award based on an amount per quarter 
in a situation like this. Instead, I have taken everything into account and considered how 
much compensation I think would be appropriate for the distress and inconvenience that has 
been caused to Mr T as a result of RBS' actions.
Mr T arranged for his ex-partner to be removed from this account. At that stage I think 
it should have been clear to RBS that it should check the contact details on the account. 
The form that was completed by both parties at the time, requests the contact information of 
the parties remaining on the account and it seems this wasn't completed. So I think RBS 
should have checked this information to make sure it would be sending correspondence to 
the correct address.
Mr T was removing the joint account holder due to a relationship breakdown and at 
these times, it is common for a consumers personal details to change, such as their 
address. So I think it would have been particularly important for the branch to check Mr Ts 
contact details. And I think RBS ought reasonably to have known that it could cause issues if 
it failed to check Mr Ts correct contact details when it updated his account.Theres no indication that Mr T ever changed his address from his previous one so 
its unclear how these statements continued to be sent to a third party at a different address. 
But it is clear this had a significant impact on Mr T, which could have been avoided if RBS 
had carried out appropriate checks when the joint account holder was removed.
RBS has said it cant find any record that Mr T let it know that he wasn't receiving 
his statements until January 2020. While I accept it was for Mr T to let RBS know if 
his statements weren't being received, I also think it was RBS responsibility to check 
the information it held on file when the changes were originally made as Ive explained 
above.
It also seems that Mr T raised a similar issue previously, so RBS had been given a 
previous opportunity to check it had the correct contact details for Mr T and had failed to 
update its records at that time, which could have avoided further distress to Mr T.
Unfortunately no amount of compensation can change the experience Mr T has had but 
I have considered the distress and inconvenience that has been caused by RBS actions. Mr 
T has been pursued by the joint account holder, and she was given details of his finances, 
which she shouldn't have been. Mr T has explained that as a result of this, he has had to 
move out of a property he has been living in for a significant amount of time  and which was 
his parents home. And while I can't hold RBS responsible for the actions of a third party, it 
seems clear that this was, in part, due to the actions of RBS which would have contributed to 
the knowledge Mr Ts ex-partner had about his finances.
Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigators conclusions that 
the compensation should be increased, and I think RBS should pay Mr T a total of 
£750 compensation to recognise the significant trouble and upset it has caused him.
RBS did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr T responded to provide further details of 
why the situation has caused him so much distress  including details of why his home had 
been so important to him and why he never would have moved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS hasnt provided any further information or evidence that makes me think I should depart 
from my original findings.
Mr T has provided further personal details about why his previous home was so important to 
him and the circumstances that occurred in that house. I would like to thank Mr T for sharing 
such personal and difficult information as it does help me to fully understand the impact this 
issue has had on him.
Mr T has been caused a great deal of distress by this issue  through no fault of his own. It 
is clear the actions of his ex-partner caused him to move from his home. And her actions 
were, in part at least, attributable to RBS failure in continuing to send her statements for the 
account, so she was aware of Mr Ts financial situation.
So I do agree that RBS actions have caused Mr T significant distress. But I also have to 
consider that Mr Ts ex-partners actions were hers and not the actions of RBS. So while 
RBS provided her with information it shouldnt have done, I dont think it could have known 
that her actions following this would cause Mr T such distress. So taking everything into account, I remain of the opinion that RBS should pay Mr T a total of £750 compensation to 
reflect its part in the significant distress caused to him through its actions.
Mr T has also questioned whether I am making an award for any potential breach of data 
that may be identified by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). My role isnt to say 
whether there has been a breach of data protection  rather it is to consider what has 
happened and the impact it has had on Mr T. But as this complaint considers the same 
issues Mr T is likely to raise with the ICO, he will need to speak to it directly to find out how 
this decision impacts any potential investigation the ICO may carry out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay 
Mr T a total of £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman