DRN-3207640
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received in 2015 to transfer two personal pensions 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). His transfer proceeds were invested in 
Dolphin Capital, a German property development scheme. He says the advice to 
transfer wasnt suitable because the proposed investment was too high risk for him. He 
holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
I set out the background and my provisional findings in my provisional decision of 24 
November 2021.
This forms part of this decision and is included below:
Mr D has told us that in speaking to a colleague about his pensions he was given the name of a 
financial adviser. He said he never met this  adviser  and  was  simply  asked  to complete some 
forms.
Mr D completed and signed an application with Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation (GMTC) to 
establish The Orbis SIPP on 27 March 2015. He transferred in to the SIPP a personal pension on 
22 April 2015 worth £77,173.96. Then he transferred in an HSBC pension on 28 April 2015 worth
£28,347.41. The HSBC pension a Group Personal Pension Scheme.
Mr D told us that the enticement to set up the SIPP and associated investment was that he was 
told he was paying two sets of charges with his existing pensions and also that he could be 
making better returns.
Wellington Court denies that Mr D was a customer of theirs and so this complaint is totally 
unwarranted and is denied.
However, Mr D and the business that took over the SIPP (referred to as GMTC from now on) 
have provided us with a number of documents pointing to Wellington Courts involvement 
including:
A New Application Checklist for the Orbis SIPP with Wellington Courts details on it. The 
FCA Reference No: is quoted as 403577 - this is incorrect as this number is actually the 
Company Number for Wellington Court in the Republic of Ireland.
An Adviser Remuneration Form which states I have appointed Mr P of Wellington Court 
Financial Services Ltd to provide me with advice in relation to the Orbis SIPP and any 
related investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP. This is signed and 
dated by Mr D on 27 March 2015.
What Wellington Court has said has already been considered and communicated in other 
decisions  with very similar circumstances, so much of what I say in this decision will already 
be familiar to it. However, this case has been considered on its own merits and in light of the 
particular circumstances of this case. And the fact that this decision will largely follow what has 
come before is because Ive considered the available evidence and come to the same 
conclusions that weve reached previously.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Review of Evidence
The evidence we have that suggests Wellington Court was involved in this case is similar to that 
set out on other cases. Whilst this case has been considered on its own merits, I dont think it 
necessary to set out this evidence again in quite such detail here. But Im satisfied for these 
reasons that Wellington Court is responsible for Mr Ds transfer into the SIPP:
The SIPP application was on Wellington Court headed paper. The letter is signed 
on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable.
The Adviser Renumeration Form referred to above says Mr P of Wellington Court has 
been appointed as Mr Ds adviser. It said fees of 1% up to a maximum of £800 would be 
charged. 1% of Mr Ds funds would take it over the maximum.
Mr Ds SIPP statement has an entry where £800 was paid out and described as IFA 
Fees  Wellington Court IFA Fee.
This amount taken from Mr Ds SIPP was included with other 1% fees for other individuals 
and the total amount, which came to £9,503.33 was then paid from the SIPPs account to 
Wellington Courts bank account (with HSBC).
Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which have 
very similar features to Mr Ds case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, for context I think its reasonable to consider the 
evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that has been collected in relation to 
Mr Ds case. Specifically:
I.GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal for 
some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  Mr P  
and the name of an introducer.
II.Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved 
in these transfers
III.The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly detailed.
IV.Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% payments 
along the same lines as Mr Ds were made to the same Wellington Court bank account in 
relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 
22 individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
GM ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number 
of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies 
(for 31 individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on 
Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES. This payment 
included Mr Ds £777.05 fee.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ds case and other similar cases. Its 
not necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries for 
September 2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least
£87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to 
over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that 
payments were happening before and after this six month period too.
Mr D was approached by someone  what appears to be an unregulated introducer  
and as a result of those conversations, became interested in transferring his pensions to 
the Orbis SIPP and investing in the Dolphin Capital.
It looks like GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
before accepting a transfer because in its Important Risk Notices, it said the SIPP was 
ordinarily offered through an IFA regulated by the FCA. It appears the paperwork 
described above was evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted the transfer as 
coming through an IFA. As a result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% initial advice 
fee was taken from the two transfer values and paid to Wellington Court. As his 
investments had failed and recovery of funds looks uncertain, Mr D complained to 
Wellington Court because its name appeared on the transfer paperwork which said, 
amongst other things, that it had provided the advice to transfer.
Wellington Court says it has never had any direct, or indirect, dealings with Mr D and the 
evidence linking Wellington Court to Mr D is fraudulent. It says the covering letter from 
Wellington Court to GMTC to open the SIPP was faked and didnt come from Wellington 
Court. It points to the unprofessional look of the letter, as well as the fact that the letter was 
signed on behalf of the adviser in question  Mr P  rather than by Mr P himself and the 
person who signed that letter is untraceable because their signature is indecipherable. With 
regards to the application checklist, it points to an incorrect FCA reference number being 
written on the form and the adviser, Mr P, misspelling (and then correcting) his name. It also says Mr P worked in a marketing, rather than advisory, capacity. More broadly, there isnt 
any evidence to show any documents were sent to Wellington Court, which it says supports 
its view that all of the above was done without its knowledge.
My view is that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business involving the 
transfer of pensions (Mr Ds included) to the Orbis SIPP and that Wellington 
Courts actions are not consistent with its allegations that it has been the victim of 
fraud.
I say this because I would have expected Wellington Court to have investigated the 
receipt of advice fees if they had genuinely been unexpected. They appeared on 
Wellington Courts bank statement as GM IFA FEES (or something similar) which I 
think is clear. The payments were all made to the same bank account. And the amounts 
are significant  at least £87,000 in a period of just six months. I dont see how these 
could have been overlooked, which suggests to me that they werent overlooked but 
were, instead, recognised payments in relation to the aforementioned advisory work.
Ive also reviewed Wellington Courts financial statements for the period under review 
and these show a significant increase in income in 2015 in comparison with the previous 
year (where income was minimal). Given the numbers, its reasonable to say the 
increase in income was driven largely by the fees from GMTC. So Wellington Court 
would have to have overlooked large payments both at the time and later on when 
preparing its accounts.
Overlooking one in isolation seems unlikely. Overlooking both seems improbable.
I appreciate Wellington Court has (in other cases) pointed to the consultancy work it did 
with GMTC. It hasnt articulated in detail what its argument is in this respect. But I can 
only assume that its saying either the payments it received from GMTC were for its 
consultancy work or that its consultancy work meant other payments from GMTC could 
easily have been overlooked which would give credence to its argument that the 
transfers were happening without its knowledge.
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because theres a clear audit trail
 that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but related to 1% advice fees for 
particular policies that had been transferred. So Ill proceed on the basis that Wellington 
Court is arguing that receiving payments from GMTC was a normal enough occurrence 
that it wouldnt have considered any one payment unusual or a sign that it was a potential 
victim of fraud. But on this point, Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any details of 
the fees it earned for its consultancy work and the bank statements it did provide (which 
would have shown all income received from GMTC) have been too heavily redacted to 
allow much insight. So whilst its possible that the fees for its consultancy work were of a 
similar magnitude to the 1% initial fees outlined above, were paid around the same time 
and had similar payment references  so that Wellington Court wouldnt reasonably have 
considered them unusual  theres no evidence to support this.
Im also minded that other financial advice firms that have done similar consultancy work in 
relation to transfers to GMTC charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to 
have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from GMTC, it would 
have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the numbers add up.
Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with this assumption, 
the numbers dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to just check 
whether a pension had safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order to 
produce an income in the region of £87,000.
I have given Wellington Courts arguments careful consideration. As it rightly says, the 
covering letter in Mr Ds case (item 1(i) above) isnt signed by the adviser in question 
(Mr P) but signed on his behalf by someone who has an indecipherable signature. Mr 
Ps name is misspelt, and then corrected, in the application checklist (item 1(ii) above). 
And the same form has Wellington Courts Irish business registration number instead of its FCA reference number. I also havent seen any correspondence that was sent to 
Wellington Court or any documents that are typical of an advice process. So there are a 
number of question marks here.
However, my role is to make findings of fact based on the available evidence in order 
to establish whether this is a complaint that we can consider against Wellington Court. 
And, if so, whether its fair and reasonable to uphold that complaint. My role isnt to 
speculate beyond that. With this in mind, and for the reasons set out above, I make the 
following findings of fact:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the 
transfer of pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This included the transfer of 
Mr Ds pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim 
of fraudulent activity.
The merits of Mr Ds complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional decision 
is to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by an introducer who sourced 
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to 
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of 
an advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to 
show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if 
this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should 
have done given the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were 
negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than 
window dressing, providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee 
on a large number of transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ds 
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr D. And that Wellington Court is responsible for any 
losses.
The investment into Dolphin Capital was a high risk and unproven investment which 
wasnt suitable for retail investors. The was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme 
(UCIS) which shouldnt have been promoted to Mr D. Nor should Mr D have been 
investing such a large amount of his pension provision in this type of investment. To 
provide context for Mr Ds risk profile, his HSBC pension was invested 100% in a default 
life-styling fund. It also appears that the remaining funds remained in cash which wasnt 
suitable for Mr D either  as it meant he lost out on potential returns with there being no 
need for the funds to sit in cash.
Of the £105,000 transferred in, £25,000 was used to invest in Dolphin Capital (which went on 
to fail). The remaining money looks like it stayed in cash. Approximately four months after the 
SIPP was established  the majority of the remaining money (aside from the money invested 
in Dolphin Capital) was transferred out into a Small Self-Administered
Scheme pension (SSAS). This left a fund of around £4,000 which about a year later was 
also then transferred to the SSAS. These transfers were advised by a firm separate to 
Wellington Court. Mr D needs to understand that Wellington Courts responsibility for any 
losses relating to the money transferred into the SIPP will end at this date (barring the 
money tied up in Dolphin Capital). If Mr D is unhappy with what happened with the transfer 
to the SSAS and afterwards hell need to complain to the business responsible.
However, it is not clear what happened with Mr Ds Dolphin Capital investment. Our contact from the GMTC has told us that there are no updates on their files relating to the Dolphin 
Capital investment (like weve seen on other cases). This maybe because the SIPP was 
closed when the transfer to the SSAS completed or it maybe that the SIPP provider doesnt 
have access to all the files (it has told us it doesnt).
The SIPP provider has sent us a screenshot of its systems confirming the purchase, and the 
SIPP statement confirms the money was invested.
There is a redemption date on the records of GMTCs internal database for the Mr Ds 
Dolphin Capital investment of April 2016  despite it being a five year investment which I 
dont believe couldve been redeemed early  and theres no evidence of the money 
returning to the SIPP. The SIPP provider says this date was manually added and it might 
have been because it was known at this point that it wouldnt return anything and it would 
make closing the SIPP easier. However this date is before Dolphin Capital was known to be 
in trouble. Its also possible that the Dolphin Capital investment was transferred into the 
SSAS. Regardless, the evidence suggests Mr Ds investment was fixed for five years, it was 
a five year loan  and we know Dolphin Capital failed within those five years. As Ive found 
Wellington Court responsible for Mr D having this investment  it is responsible for the 
losses we know will have occurred.
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint. If I do uphold Mr Ds 
complaint, Wellington Court will have to put things right for him by following the approach 
outlined below
Mr Ds representative responded to say they accepted the findings in my provisional 
decision. Wellington Court hasnt responded directly on this case but it has 
responded on cases with very similar circumstances  and so Ive treated these 
responses as a response to this case as well.
Much of what its said it has told us before but I have outlined below the relevant 
statements that appear to new arguments, for example:
1. We confirm that all payments received from Guinness Mahon (GMTC) were for 
administrative consultancy work carried out by NP and nothing else. Evidence of 
administrative consultancy work undertaken by NP was produced to the FCA at the 
meeting in Aug 2016.
2. We did not know that 1% was calculated, allocated, deducted from GMTC's client 
and purportedly paid to us. GMTCs accounting system was controlled by GMTC and 
not Wellington Court. All documents and forms presented as evidence were issued 
and handled under the direct control of GM.
3. It is wrong to allege that Wellington Court accepted to be an adviser and agreed to 
1% of adviser fees for not advising clients, not keeping any records and investing in 
unregulated funds to accommodate GMTC's dodgy scheme to the detriment of 
Wellington Court.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view as set out in the provisional decision was that Wellington Courts actions dont 
correlate with what Id expect if it were the innocent victim of fraud.
And the points it raised dont change my view of events. However, for completeness Ill set 
out a response to the points made above.Wellington Court has now said that it did not know that 1% was calculated, deducted from 
GMTCs client and paid to it, saying that GMTCs accounting system was controlled by it and 
not Wellington Court. However, as I explained in the provisional decision, its bank 
statements show fees totalling at least £87,000 received from GMTC and these were shown 
on their bank statements as GM IFA FEES. It doesnt seem plausible that these payments 
couldve been overlooked, they are for substantial amounts and were all paid to the same 
bank account. I think its more likely they were recognised as payments for work Wellington 
Court had completed. If they were genuinely unexpected, Id expect this to have been 
investigated by Wellington Court.
Wellington Courts financial statements for this period show a significant increase in income 
in 2015 in comparison with the previous year (where income was minimal). This increase in 
income was driven largely by the fees from GMTC. So Wellington Court wouldve had to 
have overlooked large payments both when they were received and later on when preparing 
its accounts. I dont think that is likely, especially considering the significance of these fees in 
terms of Wellington Courts finances. 
I appreciate Wellington Court has (in other cases) pointed to the consultancy work it did with 
GMTC. It has most recently said that all payments received from GMTC were for 
administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else. It isnt clear whether 
Wellington Court means it is confirming the fees I have outlined above were for the 
consultancy work or whether it is simply confirming that it did receive money from GMTC for 
consultancy work. 
Either way, Im not persuaded the fees Ive mentioned above were as payment for the 
consultancy work carried out for GMTC by Mr P. I say this because theres a clear audit trail 
that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but were instead 1% advice fees for 
particular policies that had been transferred. Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any 
details of the fees it earned for its consultancy work and the bank statements it did provide 
(which would have shown all income received from GMTC) have been too heavily redacted 
to allow much insight. So whilst its possible that Wellington Court was also receiving fees for 
its consultancy work, I find it hard to believe that Wellington Court couldve mistaken the 
substantial fees outlined above, which were paid around the same time and had similar 
payment references, were for administrative services carried out by Mr P. 
To expand on what I said in my provisional decision on this matter   Im aware other 
financial advice firms have done similar consultancy work in relation to transfers to GMTC  
those firms charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to have earned 
enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from GMTC, it would have to have 
worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the numbers add up. Alternatively, it 
could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with this assumption, the numbers 
dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely considering the going rate for this 
type of work) would still require 870 cases in order to produce an income in the region of 
£87,000. 
Its also worth noting that in cases where Ive seen advisory firms provide checking-type 
services as part of the transfer process, the checklists they completed and signed on each 
case are still available. I find it unusual that the consultancy work Wellington Court says it did 
for GMTC left no paper trail whatsoever, whereas there is a paper trail for work it said it 
didnt do. I think its case can only be weakened by such an anomaly. And the advisory firms 
that provided checking-type services also made it clear in their paperwork that they wouldnt 
be offering advice. So I think Wellington Courts case is weakened further because it cant 
now provide any similar evidence to show it never intended to operate in the advisory space 
in relation to its work with GMTC.Wellington Court seems to suggest that evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for GMTC 
can be obtained from the FCA. But it is for Wellington Court to provide us with evidence in 
support of its position. And it has had plenty of opportunity to do so, but to date it hasnt 
produced anything. In the absence of such evidence, I dont think Wellington Court has 
shown that its role in Mr Ds pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for 
GMTC.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It hasnt at any point said 
specifically what hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied 
Wellington Court has seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants. Indeed, its 
case relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork.
Im also satisfied Wellington Court has seen copies of SIPP statements showing the 1% 
Wellington IFA fee being deducted from a number of transfer values. Ive outlined in detail 
the money trail that shows the 1% fee being deducted from Mr Ds SIPP and being paid to 
Wellington Court. I have also recorded in detail the evidence that showed similar payments 
relating to other transfers being made to Wellington Court. I referred to the same payments 
in other decisions as have my colleagues. Wellington Court still hasnt referred to those 
payments in any detail or adequately told us which of those payments it received. 
Its also worth noting that because Wellington Court didnt provide complete bank 
statements, I only have evidence of it receiving some of the payments in question. But my 
view is that its reasonable  given the evidence that is available  to assume all the 
payments would have been received by Wellington Court. If Wellington Court disagreed with 
this assumption, it has had more than ample opportunity to provide a more comprehensive 
set of its bank statements to show the payments it received (or didnt receive) from GMTC.
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and has had 
the opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my decision.
So in conclusion for the reasons explained here and in my provisional decision as set out 
above, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable for Mr D. And that Wellington Court is 
responsible for any losses. Wellington Court should put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr D would have invested 
differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Wellington Court must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss 
and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay it into Mr D's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Wellington Court shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Wellington Court are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ds 
pension plan, they should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court considers 
that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much they have taken off. Wellington Court 
should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Ds 
Dolphin 
Capital 
investmentFailedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
IndexDate of transfer 
into SIPPDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of final decision 
to date of
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Guinness 
Mahon 
Orbis SIPP 
remaining 
funds 
excluding 
Dolphin 
Capital 
Investmenttransferred    FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
IndexDate of 
transfer 
into SIPPDate 
funds 
transferred 
to SSASAs above
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated 
where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market) as appears to be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I 
set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that 
Mr D provides an undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive 
from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Compensation for trouble and upset
I think the loss of Mr Ds Dolphin Capital investment will have caused upset and 
worry and therefore I think Mr D should be compensated £300 in recognition of 
this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Wellington Court Financial Services Limited and direct it to 
put matters right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman