DRN-1512265
The complaint 
Ms B is unhappy with how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled her claim 
under her medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B has held a PositiveCare Plan policy with AIG since 2004. In May 2019, she called AIG 
to make a claim as shed been diagnosed with breast cancer. Ms B said AIG told her that 
cover would commence once the cancer had spread, so she wasnt covered at this time. 
She asked for a copy of the policy terms and conditions as she believed this information was 
incorrect. AIG sent her a policy document and schedule, but Ms B spotted this was the 
wrong documentation and showed incorrect premiums. After searching through her own 
records, Ms B found her policy terms and pointed out to AIG that her claim should be 
covered. Shes said AIG told her the terms were the same, but just looked different. She 
forwarded AIG her copy of the policy and asked it to look into this again.
Ms B didnt hear back straight away, so she got in touch with her broker and was informed 
AIG had treated her review request as a formal complaint. So AIG now had eight weeks to 
respond to her.
AIG subsequently agreed Ms Bs policy did cover diagnosis of cancer, so it logged her claim. 
But she then had to be sent out a claim form as one hadnt been sent when she first called. 
AIG then provided Ms B with details of the wrong claim adjuster, causing confusion when 
she was contacted by a different person than expected. During this period, Ms B went into 
hospital to have her surgery. The claim was ultimately covered and AIG offered £150 
compensation in recognition of its errors. Ms B didnt think this went far enough, so AIG 
offered to increase it to £200. Ms B referred the matter to our service as she remained 
unhappy. 
Our investigator thought the compensation AIG had offered didnt fairly reflect the stress and 
worry it had caused Ms B. He felt an additional £200, making the total compensation £400, 
was fair in the given circumstances. Ms B accepted the investigators findings, but AIG 
didnt. It said that in normal circumstances where an admin/human error had occurred, an 
apology sufficed. But in this case, it offered compensation as it had considered the distress 
caused to Ms B. The investigators view remained unchanged, so, the matter has been 
referred to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
AIG has accepted the level of service it provided Ms B was not satisfactory. Im pleased that 
the claim has now been settled in full. Whats therefore left for me to consider is whether the 
£200 compensation AIG has offered is fair. Having given this a lot of thought, Im not 
persuaded it is. I say this because:
AIG didnt confirm it would cover the claim until 10 June 2019. This is nearly a month 
after Ms B first called to make a claim. The information AIG has provided shows the 
claim wasnt logged until 6 June 2019. If AIG had used the correct policy terms and 
conditions when Ms B first called, given how quickly cover was confirmed 
subsequently, I think its most likely she wouldve known her claim would be covered 
well in advance of her surgery. Instead, she was left to worry for weeks that she 
might not be covered and had to decide whether to go ahead with the procedure not 
knowing if her policy would pay out.
 
The purpose of an insurance policy is to give peace of mind to the policyholder when 
an insured event occurs. But the experience Ms B had with AIG was difficult and 
distressing. During this period, Ms B was given incorrect information on more than 
one occasion and there were delays in cover being agreed: 
oInitially, she was told she wasnt covered until her cancer had spread
oIncorrect policy documentation was sent
oA claim form wasnt sent out at the earliest opportunity
oWhen she located her documentation and rang AIG, she was told the terms 
were the same, just written differently, even though this wasnt correct
oRather than review the terms she provided and log a complaint, this issue 
was only logged as a formal complaint  meaning Ms B had to wait longer to 
hear back from AIG even though this was information it hadnt previously 
considered
oShe was given the wrong information about who her claim adjuster was
At an already very difficult and stressful time Ms B had to spend time first looking for 
her copy of the policy documentation, and then she had to engage with AIG to 
explain the mistakes it was making before it agreed cover.
I accept admin/human errors can happen. But I think its important to note that when 
theres a multiple occurrence of such errors and by different individuals, the impact is 
amplified. This needs to be taken into consideration when thinking about putting 
matters right.
 
Having carefully considered all the available information, I agree with the recommendation 
made by our investigator that Ms B should be awarded £400 in compensation. I consider this 
a fairer reflection of the avoidable delays caused by AIG and the unnecessary stress Ms B 
faced during this period. If there had just been a short delay or single error, I may have 
agreed with AIG that £200 was fair. But in this case, I consider the impact of the multiple 
errors  and the effort Ms B had to put in to rightly have her claim considered, warrants 
additional compensation. Especially as she was left to worry about whether her claim would 
be paid when she knew she needed surgery.
Putting things right
American International Group UK needs to put things right by paying a total of £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset its caused Ms B through its multiple errors in 
assessing her claim. If Ms B has already received the initial £200 offered, then AIG should 
pay her a further £200 only.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require American 
International Group UK Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to either 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman