DRN-4343467
The complaint
Mr F complains Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly entered into a 
Conditional Sale Agreement because it didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure it was affordable for him.
 
What happened
Mr F entered into a Conditional Sale Agreement with Moneybarn on 4 September 2019. The 
cash price of the car was £5,198 and Mr F paid a deposit of £400. The total credit amount 
was £4,798 and the total amount payable under the agreement was £11,622.98. The APR 
was 49.7%. The total term of the agreement was 60 months and Mr F was to make 59 equal 
monthly repayments of £190.22.
 
Mr F said he had very little, or no money left over after paying his bills and debts each 
month. Therefore, his representatives complained to Moneybarn on his behalf concerned 
about the checks Moneybarn had carried out and stating it had entered into the agreement 
irresponsibly. 
Moneybarn responded to the complaint on 1 June 2023. It said it had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. This included a full credit search which showed Mr Fs current 
borrowing levels, repayment history, arrears and past defaulted accounts. Also, it said it 
independently verified Mr Fs income with credit reference agencies and assessed whether 
Mr Fs stated income level was in line with his occupation. It said it confirmed non-
discretionary expenditure using information from the credit reference agency. Based on the 
information gathered, Moneybarn felt the agreement was affordable. 
Mr F remained unhappy, and his representatives contacted our service to ask us to 
investigate. Our Investigator issued a view explaining why they felt the affordability checks 
hadnt been reasonable or proportionate. Nevertheless, our Investigator felt had reasonable 
and proportionate checks been carried out then such checks likely would have shown the 
agreement was affordable. 
Mr Fs representatives confirmed the view was not accepted. They said there was three 
outstanding county court judgments (CCJs) with a total outstanding balance of £6,800. It 
also noted an outstanding balance of £19,700 from eight defaulted accounts. The 
Investigator responded to this explaining that the disposable income remained the same and 
so remained of the view that the agreement was affordable.
 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. I 
think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr F would be able to repay the borrowing? 
a) If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b) If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the borrowing? 
Before granting credit, Moneybarn were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Fs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower focused. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr F could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the risk 
posed to Moneybarn as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as 
an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to: 
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and 
The consumers individual circumstances. 
Moneybarn havent been able to provide a copy of the credit search it obtained at the time of 
entering the agreement. However, it has provided a summary of the information the search 
showed. It noted Mr F had three outstanding CCJs with a total outstanding balance of 
£6,800. It also noted eight defaults with an outstanding balance of £19,700 with the latest 
default being 31 months before entering into the agreement. 
Mr F has provided a copy of his credit file, but it was issued a few years after the agreement 
so some of the information is no longer present. Nevertheless, the information I can see 
seems broadly in line with what Moneybarn said it had at the time. I think this was enough to 
alert Moneybarn to the financial difficulties Mr F had experienced. 
Moneybarn has said Mr Fs stated income was £1,873 and it verified this with data from a 
credit reference agency. Moneybarn have said it used information from the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) to calculate Mr Fs non-discretionary expenditure. From the credit search, it 
also identified Mr F had non-revolving credit of £302. It said based on this information it 
calculated Mr Fs disposable income as £760.08. Therefore, it felt he had sufficient 
disposable income in order to affordably repay the monthly payments. 
Having considered the evidence, Im not satisfied Moneybarn carried out reasonable or 
proportionate checks to ensure it could assess Mr Fs ability to sustainably repay the 
agreement. It had evidence that Mr F had previously been in financial difficulty, and this 
should have prompted it to do more to understand Mr Fs specific income and expenditure. In the circumstances, it wasnt reasonable to rely on ONS data for an accurate picture of Mr 
Fs expenditure.  
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F would be able to repay 
the agreement in a sustainable way? 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out for this agreement, I need to 
decide what a reasonable and proportionate check would likely have shown. Such additional 
checks might have included asking Mr F about his committed expenditure and depending on 
what was said, verifying this by obtaining further information. 
To understand what information Moneybarn were likely to have received, Ive reviewed bank 
statements from the three-month period leading up to the lending agreement. I note these 
were from Mr Fs joint account which he held with his wife. So, Ive considered the regular 
income into that account, as well as the non-discretionary spending. I want to be clear that 
Im not suggesting Moneybarn needed to check Mr Fs bank statements specifically, but Im 
satisfied that these give me a good indication of what information it would likely have found 
out about his financial circumstances had it completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. 
I understand Mr F told Moneybarn he had an income of £1,873. I can see Mr F received a 
salary payment of £1,353 because the council tax and rent were deducted before Mr F 
received it. There were also other income payments being paid into the account including 
child tax credits and benefits, as well as a child maintenance payment. The income therefore 
did change over the three-month period, but on average Ive seen there was around £3,793 
per month paid into the account.  
Ive also thought about the non-discretionary outgoings on the account. This includes (but is 
not limited to) things like car insurance, car tax, food, petrol and water. Having considered 
this, Im satisfied the identifiable non-discretionary expenditure was around £1,557. This 
meant there was around £2,236 disposable income each month. This was sufficient to meet 
the repayments under the agreement of £190.22. 
In reviewing Mr Fs complaint, Ive also thought about his credit history. I note this was 
something highlighted in response to the view. As mentioned, the credit report was 
generated in August 2023, so it does not show all of the information Moneybarn would have 
seen at the time of the agreement. But Ive also taken into account the information 
Moneybarn said it received. I appreciate Mr F had experienced financial difficulty. I can see 
he had three CCJs with a balance of around £6,800. The latest was recorded in January 
2019. Moneybarn and Mr F also said he had eight defaulted accounts. Moneybarn said the 
outstanding balance was around £19,700. 
Moneybarn have said the last default was recorded 31 months prior to the agreement. I can 
no longer see these entries on Mr Fs credit file, so Ive no reason to think this isnt the case. 
The statements Ive seen leading up to the agreement dont show Mr F was making 
contributions towards the outstanding balance. Mr F has provided a later statement from 
October 2019 (after the agreement) which shows two separate contributions of £50 towards 
the debt during this month. I understand he has recently settled one of the CCJs but is still 
paying off the others. Taking everything into consideration, it seems there was sufficient 
disposable income to cover the repayments under the agreement and make payments 
towards the outstanding balance.  
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that had reasonable and proportionate checks 
been carried out its likely they wouldve shown the agreement was affordable. So, I wont be 
asking Moneybarn to do anything further here. Did Moneybarn act unfairly in some other way?
Mr F has described the difficult personal circumstances he has faced. I wont repeat the 
circumstances in detail here because they are personal to him. However, I want to assure 
him Ive thought about this carefully. Having said this, the evidence doesnt demonstrate 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in some other way when entering the agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman