DRN-3042171
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers). He says 
the car was misrepresented to him as being in perfect mechanical condition.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was about 
10 years old and had already completed about 90,000 miles so think a reasonable person 
would expect that parts of the car would already have suffered notable wear and tear.
A couple of suspension arms were replaced on the car within the first two months and I 
think, given the fact the car had only been in Mr Ks ownership for a very limited amount of 
time, those faults were likely to have been present or developing when he took receipt of the 
vehicle: the point at which Close Brothers were responsible for the cars quality.
The dealership refunded 50% of the costs to have those suspension faults fixed but I think 
the costs should have been paid for in full and Id agree with the investigator that it would 
therefore be fair for Close Brothers to reimburse Mr K for the costs he incurred replacing the 
suspension arms.
Whilst the specialist car dealership considered the brakes and wheels were not of the 
requisite standard I can see the independent inspector has explained they were of a 
serviceable and therefore road worthy. Im not persuaded there was ever a promise the tyres 
or brakes were of better standard than, for instance, the MOT would require of the car. The 
text message Mr K received from the dealership confirmed the specialist garage they had 
referred the car to had checked it with their diagnostics for faults and everything was perfect 
mechanically. I dont think diagnostics would be used to check tyre condition or brake wear. I 
think its reasonable to suggest Mr K would have considered those diagnostics to be 
reviewing the performance of the engine and associated mechanical components. 
So, whilst I can see the brakes and some tyres were worn, the independent inspector has 
confirmed they were not worn beyond a serviceable standard and the car was therefore 
roadworthy. I dont think it would be fair to tell Close Brothers to meet the costs of any repair 
work other than the costs of the suspension arm replacement.
Mr K says the car was misrepresented to him because he was told it was in perfect 
mechanical condition. If he was provided with a false statement of fact and if that statement 
led him to enter into an agreement he would not have otherwise entered into then I may 
consider the car was misrepresented. But having reviewed the text message its clear the 
dealership was relaying information about the mechanical performance of the car that hed 
received from a specialist garage. Im not persuaded there is evidence this information was 
false and I can see that Mr K said hed check with the specialist garage to corroborate what 
the dealership were telling him. I think its likely he would therefore have done so and would 
have been likely to get back to the dealership if hed been told anything different by the 
specialist. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest the dealership had provided a false 
statement.
  
Putting things right
I think its fair for Close Brothers to refund the costs Mr K incurred having the suspension 
fixed and they should add interest to that refund as Mr K has been deprived of that money.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Close Brother 
Limited to reimburse the remainder of the cost for the suspension arms which I calculate as 
£215.70. Close Brothers Limited should add 8% interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman