DRN-2045803
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs B applied for the PPI by post at the same time as applying for her credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the compliant should be upheld. As Mrs B disagreed 
the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen Mrs Bs signed application for her credit 
card. This has a section in it dealing with Additional Information. This section has Yes 
and, equally prominent, No boxes in it which have to be ticked if the applicant wants to 
apply for or decline various additional options. I can see that Mrs B has ticked the No 
boxes in respect of both an immediate cash withdrawal or for premium service. But that 
she ticked the Yes box for taking out PPI. Because the sale was so long ago, I can 
understand why Mrs B cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B had the information she needed so that she 
could decide for herself if it was right. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such as those affecting someone with a pre-
existing medical condition. So, it could have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman