DRN-3763333
The complaint
Mr B complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited wouldnt pay his theft claim 
under his motorcycle insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Bs motorcycle was stolen Markerstudy refused to pay his claim. They said hed 
failed to meet the policy conditions about his motorcycles security at his home. Mr B 
accepted that his motorcycle wasnt in a garage or private locked building at the time of the 
theft but he said that wasnt deliberate. So he felt that it was unfair of Markerstudy to decline 
his claim. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint against Markerstudy should be 
upheld. He thought that Markerstudy had acted reasonably and in line with Mr Bs policy 
terms. Mr B remained dissatisfied and so his case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question is whether it was reasonable for Markerstudy to rely on their theft exclusion in 
the policy endorsement.  
Ive looked at Mr Bs policy endorsement which says: 
728 Excluding Theft When Not In Private Garage
You have agreed that you will keep your vehicle in your private locked garage or
building, at your home address, to which only you and anyone with your permission
have access. If a theft or attempted theft of your vehicle happens at any time and
within a 500-metre radius of your home address when the vehicle is not locked in
this garage or building we will not pay the claim.
As the investigator has explained, this gives Markerstudy the right to decline a claim if the 
motorcycle was stolen when it was not locked in a private garage or building when it was at 
Mr Bs home. This security can reduce the risk of theft, and so we dont think its 
unreasonable for an insurer to require it, as long as the insurer makes it clear at the point of 
purchase.
The endorsement is included on the policy schedule. The policys Important Customer 
Information section directs the policyholder to read the policy schedule. And page 9 of the 
policy says that cover is subject to any endorsement shown on the policy schedule.
So I think that the policy documents did highlight the endorsement when Mr B bought the 
policy. They made it clear that theft cover was excluded unless his motorcycle was secured 
as the endorsement required. Mr B knew that his motorcycle should be secured in that way, 
and said he did normally keep it in his shed. 
Mr Bs motorcycle was stolen from his garden at night. Mr B accepts that when it was stolen 
he hadnt complied with the policys security requirement. But he said he didnt intend that. 
So he didnt think it was fair for Markerstudy to rely on the exclusion. 
Mr B said as follows. He kept his motorcycle in a metal shed overnight. But when he worked 
on it he did that outside the shed, in his garden. This was because there wasnt enough 
room to do that inside his shed as he had some medical conditions and the shed was too 
cramped. On the date of the theft he was working on his bike in his garden until about 
midnight. He went inside to order motorcycle parts on his laptop, but he fell asleep in the 
sitting room. The back door in the kitchen was open. His motorcycle was secured with 
chains and the garden gate was secured too. When he woke at 3am he discovered that his 
motorcycle had been stolen. The thieves had cut through the locks and chains.
Mr B said that he was a pensioner with health problems, his motorcycle was his pride and 
joy and he had never claimed on the policy before. He felt hed taken every reasonable 
precaution to ensure that it was secure. But Markerstudy thought he should have put it back 
in the shed before he went indoors.
I do see that it must be very frustrating for Mr B for his much-loved motorcycle to have been 
stolen in this way and recovered damaged. It was a very unfortunate event, and I can see 
why he is upset by it and by the businesss decision. But I have to look at whether 
Markerstudy have done anything wrong, and for the reasons Ive said above, I dont think 
that they have . 
I think that Mr B hadnt complied with the policy endorsement at the time of the theft. This 
meant the motorcycle was not secured as Markerstudy had required and Mr B had agreed. 
Even if that happened because of Mr Bs mistake, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Markerstudy to rely on their theft exclusion in the policy endorsement.  And so I think that 
Markerstudy were entitled to reject his claim. Although I know that it will be disappointing to 
Mr B, this means that I dont ask Markerstudy to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
