DRN-4228431
Complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with what Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) has 
agreed to do to put things right after she complained about having been irresponsibly 
provided with a loan.
Background
After Mrs J referred her complaint to us, Likely Loans accepted that it shouldnt have lent to 
Mrs J. It agreed to reduce what she still owed on her loan to ensure that she pays no more 
than the amount she was lent in the first place. Our adjudicator thought that what Likely 
Loans had agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. Mrs J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Likely Loans has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. Likely Loans has agreed that it shouldnt 
have provided Mrs J with her loan. And it has agreed to limit the amount that she repays to 
the amount that was lent in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided a loan that was unaffordable wed typically expect it to 
put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Likely 
Loans has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in 
these circumstances.
In this case, Mrs J has been left with an outstanding balance even though shes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied to her loan. This is because the total 
amount shes paid to Likely Loans and the third-party debt purchaser her account was sold 
to, is less than the £2,000.00 she was lent to start with. So while Mrs J has been left with an 
outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with this, Likely Loans has done 
what Id normally expect a lender to do in similar circumstances here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
provided a loan that it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something 
different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair 
and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mrs J believes that Likely Loans should do more. As I understand it, she wants Likely Loans 
to refund some funds as she could use them to clear this whole debt and maybe some 
others. Ive thought about what Mrs J has said. But as Mrs J has paid less than the amount 
she borrowed, Likely Loans hasnt actually charged her anything for having the use of the 
£2,000.00 she was lent. Furthermore, Mrs J receiving a refund in these circumstances 
would result in her balance increasing, rather than reducing, as this would have the effect of 
reducing what shes paid towards the £2,000.00 she was lent. 
So while I can understand Mrs Js disappointment at not receiving compensation as a result 
of her successful complaint, I dont think that Mrs J being unhappy at having a balance to 
repay, or not being given further funds to reduce other debts are compelling reasons for me 
to depart from our usual approach here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Likely Loans has already done to put things 
right for Mrs J  limiting what she has to pay to the £2,000.00 she was lent  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
So I leave it up to Mrs J to decide whether she wishes to accept Likely Loans offer.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs J  especially as she feels as though 
shes entitled to a refund. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Oakbrook Finance Limited has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. And Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman