DRN-3356955
The complaint
Mr M complains Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined his claim for accidental 
damage to his sofa on his care and protection insurance policy. 
There are several parties and representatives of Amtrust involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Amtrust.
What happened
Mr M bought two sofas from a high street retailer in August 2017. At the same time he took 
out a five-year insurance policy to cover accidental damage to the items. This was with 
Amtrust.  
In August 2021 Mr M said a cushion on one of the sofas had pushed back and no longer sat 
right, so he raised a claim on his insurance policy with Amtrust.
Amtrust looked into Mr Ms claim and said his policy only covers accidental damage and 
staining to the exterior. It said the damage he claimed for was not consistent with a single 
incident and his policy covered only for sudden and unforeseen damage that occurs in a 
single incident. Amtrust declined Mr Ms claim.
As Mr M was not happy with Amtrust, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt the damage 
Mr M reported to the sofa would be a failure of structure and Amtrust had fairly declined his 
claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust declined Mr Ms claim and so he brought a complaint to our service. We explained 
he needed to make a complaint to Amtrust before we were able to look at it. Mr M did this 
and Amtrust upheld its decision to decline his claim.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy with Amtrust. The policy covers the 
cost of repairing accidental damage to insured items. In this case the insured items are the 
two sofas. 
The policy details exclusions to the cover which include;
3.1
e) by wear and tear, anything which happens gradually or over a sustained period of time, or 
by the accumulation of multiple stains
3.6 
any damage that is related to the breakage or failure of the structure of other internal 
mechanism of the Insured Item(s), including frames, springs, zips, loss of resilience and 
stitching.
 
Mr M said the damage was caused when he sat down on the sofa. And then when he got up 
he realised the cushion had moved back. He wants Amtrust to repair the damage to the sofa 
and if unable to repair pay for a pair of new sofas. He would also like compensation and an 
apology.
I looked at the videos provided by Mr M of his sofa and considered his explanation that the 
cushion had pushed back and no longer sat right.
The sofa was four years old at the time Mr M made a claim on his insurance policy. 
There appears to be some deterioration of the seat cushion. Some of the cushioning has 
compressed underneath the leather covering of the seat. I think this is consistent with normal 
use over a period of time. This type of damage is excluded under the terms and conditions of 
the policy as this is wear and tear, anything which happens gradually or over a sustained 
period of time. Based on this wording, in my opinion I think Amtrust acted reasonably in 
declining his claim. 
Although I understand that Mr M will be disappointed, I conclude that Amtrust acted fairly 
and within the terms of the policy in declining his claim. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not require Amtrust to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman