DRN-3961841
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr S, who are represented by their solicitor, complain about their mortgage with 
The Mortgage Business Plc. Theyre unhappy with the interest rate theyve been charged, 
that TMB didnt make new rates available to them, and that it hasnt treated them fairly or 
sympathetically when theyve experienced financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr S took out their mortgage with TMB in 2008. They borrowed around £290,000 
over a 25 year term on a repayment basis. For the first two years the mortgage was on a 
tracker rate 0.84% above Bank of England base rate, reverting to the TMB standard variable 
rate (SVR) thereafter. The mortgage has been on the SVR since 2010.
Mrs H and Mr S sold their property, repaying the mortgage, in 2021. They complained about 
how TMB had treated them over the years. They said that they believed the interest rate was 
excessive and they hadnt benefitted from reductions in Bank of England base rate. They 
said TMB had told them they werent entitled to a new interest rate and that it refused them 
payment holidays
TMB said that it had charged interest in line with the terms and conditions. The SVR didnt 
track base rate and wasnt required to do so. But it said that the SVR had reduced since the 
mortgage was taken out. TMB said there was no evidence Mrs H and Mr S had ever asked 
for a new interest rate, and in any case as theyd been in and out of arrears over the life of 
the mortgage they may well not have been eligible for a new interest rate. It said Mrs H and 
Mr S had requested payment holidays in 2008 and 2011, but hadnt met TMBs criteria for 
payment holidays at those times. And there was no evidence theyd asked since then. TMB 
also said that part of Mrs H and Mr Ss complaint had been made out of time.
Mrs H and Mr S said theyd asked TMB for help many times. They said theyd asked for 
payment holidays, and asked about either taking a new interest rate or switching the 
mortgage to interest only. Their solicitor specifically referred to requests made after July 
2019 until the mortgage was redeemed in 2021. 
Our investigator said that we could only consider things that had happened in the six years 
leading up to Mrs H and Mr Ss complaint. That included the fairness of the interest rate 
charged over that period (taking into account the history which led to the setting of the rate), 
as well as any applications Mrs H and Mr S had made in that time. He didnt recommend this 
part of their complaint be upheld. So Mrs H and Mr S asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service set out time limits for making complaints. 
The rules say that a complaint must be made by the later of:
Six years from the date of the event complained of; or
Three years from when the complainant knew  or ought to have known  of cause 
for complaint.
If a complaint is made out of time we have no power to consider it  unless the firm 
complained about consents (which, in this case, TMB hasnt), unless theres evidence of an 
earlier complaint having been received by TMB (which there isnt), or unless there are 
exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. Mrs H and Mr Ss solicitor said that they 
wanted to wait until the mortgage was repaid before complaining. Im not persuaded that 
amounts to exceptional circumstances explaining why they couldnt have complained 
sooner.
Im satisfied too that the three year limit does not give Mrs H and Mr S more time to complain 
than the six year limit. They would have known what interest rate they were paying  not 
least from their annual statements. The level of the Bank of England base rate is generally 
well known, and I think Mrs H and Mr S had enough information to know they might have 
cause for complaint either about the level of the SVR, or about any refusal of TMB to offer 
them a new preferential rate, at the time they were charged that interest or refused that rate. 
Similarly, they would have known that any request for a payment holiday had been refused 
and so known of cause for complaint about any refusal.
That means that we can only consider events within six years leading up to when Mrs H and 
Mr S first complained in September 2021. But in considering that part of their complaint 
about the level of the SVR and changes to it over time, we can also consider changes TMB 
made (or didnt make) prior to the six years to the extent that those earlier decisions 
contributed to the level of the SVR charged within the six years. Im satisfied thats a relevant 
matter for me to consider as part of all the circumstances of the case. 
The interest rate
The mortgage offer sets out that after the initial tracker rate expired in 2010, the mortgage 
would revert to the SVR. Theres no obligation on a lender to offer a new preferential rate 
when an old one expires  or at any other time  in the rules of mortgage regulation. And 
nothing in Mrs H and Mr Ss mortgage offer says that TMB would move them onto a new 
rate either.
If Mrs H and Mr S wanted a new interest rate, it was up to them to apply to TMB for one. Ive 
explained that we can only consider what happened in the six years before Mrs H and Mr S 
first complained. 
By this time TMB was what is known as a closed book lender  which means that it doesnt 
take on new mortgage business, and doesnt offer new interest rates to existing customers. 
So even if Mrs H and Mr S had asked for a new rate, TMB had nothing to offer them. As Ive 
said, there is no obligation on a lender to offer new rates to existing customers, and since 
TMB didnt make rates available to any customer  not just Mrs H and Mr S  I dont think it 
was treating them unfairly. 
There was a process whereby TMB customers could move to Bank of Scotland to access a 
new interest rate with Bank of Scotland. Ive not seen any evidence that TMB made Mrs H 
and Mr S aware of this. But its my understanding that this process wasnt available to 
customers in arrears, so even if it had made them aware of it I dont think Mrs H and Mr S 
would have been able to move their mortgage to Bank of Scotland in this way. And while its 
fair and reasonable to expect TMB to draw this process to the attention of eligible customers 
who ask it about new interest rates, the criteria Bank of Scotland applies in deciding whether to accept applications are a matter for Bank of Scotland.
Taking all that into account, I dont think it was unfair that Mrs H and Mr S were on TMBs 
SVR. So Ive gone on to think about whether the SVR was itself a fair rate  bearing in mind 
Mrs H and Mr Ss concerns that it was unfairly high and didnt reflect changes to base rate 
over the years since they took out their mortgage.
The mortgage offer makes clear the SVR is a variable rate. Theres no suggestion in either 
the offer or the terms and conditions that its directly linked to or tracks the Bank of England 
base rate.
When Mrs H and Mr S took out their mortgage, the SVR was 7.44%. While they were on 
their initial tracker rate, TMB had reduced its SVR so that by the time they began to pay the 
SVR it was 4.84%. The SVR then increased to 4.95% in November 2011 and again to 5.2% 
in September 2018. It reduced to 4.7% in April 2020 and 4.55% in May 2020, and then didnt 
change again until Mrs H and Mr S repaid their mortgage in July 2021.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which TMB can vary the 
SVR.
Condition 6.7 says:
We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, unless the 
offer, any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement says we cannot. We 
can change the interest rate for any of the following reasons:
(a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our 
customers with mortgages of residential property.
(b) To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including 
the terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect: changes to the law or codes of practice, a decisions or 
recommendation made by, or a requirement of, a court, ombudsman, regulator or 
similar body or an undertaking given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the costs we incur in looking after the mortgage account 
because of
The steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for 
managing mortgage accounts generally; or
Reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) Because
We are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of 
another bank or organisation offering similar services;
We are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another 
bank or organisation offering similar services; or
Any of these things have happened,and the change will make sure that our customers and the customers of the 
other bank or organisation are treated in a similar way if they are in similar 
categories.
(g) Because you have changed the way you use the property (for example from 
residential to commercial use) 
Condition 6.8 says
We can also change the interest rate for any other valid reason.
As I say, theres nothing that links the SVR to Bank of England base rate, or says that the 
SVR must be changed when base rate changes. Nor is there anything in the terms and 
conditions that obliges TMB to change the SVR at any time  the terms allow TMB to make 
changes in certain limited circumstances, but dont require it to do so. 
In fact, the SVR was reduced between 2008 and 2010  around the same time as (though 
not to the same extent as) falls in the Bank of England base rate. The SVR increased slightly 
in 2011, and then stayed constant until 2018. There were no changes in base rate in 2011, 
and while there were changes to base rate in 2016 and 2017 there were no changes to the 
SVR. From 2018, the SVR has changed by the same amounts and at the same time as 
changes to base rate.
TMB has explained that it made these changes to the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of 
funding its mortgage business. Its provided us with evidence that shows that its costs 
changed over time, and that the changes to the SVR it made from time to time reflected the 
changes to its costs. Im aware from my wider knowledge of the mortgage market that there 
were significant funding pressures across the mortgage market around the time of the 
financial crisis and its aftermath, from 2008 to 2010, and that there was an increasing 
disconnect between base rate and mortgage funding costs. This reinforces my view that the 
evidence shows changes TMB made at this time reflected changes in its costs  which 
reduced but not to the same extent as reductions in the Bank of England base rate. 
TMB has also shown that its costs increased in 2011, and that its costs remained broadly 
constant in 2016 and 2017. And since then, it has only changed the SVR following changes 
to the Bank of England base rate.
Ive taken into account that TMB is a closed book lender, and doesnt lend new mortgages to 
new customers. But that doesnt mean its costs are fixed; until mortgages it has lent are 
repaid, TMB has to cover the ongoing costs of raising the funds it lent, which are themselves 
subject to change. 
Overall, Im satisfied that TMB has shown that it was entitled to rely on the terms and 
conditions to make the changes to the SVR it did make, and that there was no obligation on 
it to make changes to the SVR at other times. Taking that into account, I dont think theres 
evidence either that TMB relied on changes it was not entitled to make in setting the SVR 
charged at the start of the period I can consider, or that it acted unfairly in making further 
changes to the SVR during that period. 
I also note that throughout this period TMBs SVR was not substantially out of line with SVRs 
across the mortgage market. Although the SVR was higher than the preferential rates 
offered by other lenders, there was no obligation on TMB to offer preferential rates and the 
SVR was broadly in line with the reversion rates of other lenders. I think this is also a 
relevant factor in considering whether TMB acted fairly in setting the SVR at the level it did. Ive explained that I can only consider the fairness of the interest rate TMB charged Mrs H 
and Mr S in the six years leading up to their complaint. Im satisfied that it was not unfair that 
they were on the SVR in that period. And Im satisfied  having taken into account both the 
changes to the SVR TMB made in this period, and the changes it made more than six years 
before the complaint but which influenced the level of the SVR in this period  that the level 
of the SVR was not unfair either. I dont therefore uphold this part of their complaint.
Finally, Ive thought about the question of payment holidays, and whether TMB treated Mrs 
H and Mr S fairly and reasonably more widely.
The mortgage offer says that, as long as the mortgage was not in arrears, Mrs H and Mr S 
were entitled to apply for payment holidays once the mortgage was more than three months 
old. This does not entitle them to payment holidays  it entitles them to apply, but does not 
require TMB to agree to an application. But Id expect it to give any application fair 
consideration. 
TMB says Mrs H and Mr S applied for payment holidays in 2008 and 2011, but it has no 
evidence they applied more recently than that. 2008 and 2011 are more than six years 
before Mrs H and Mr S complained, so I cant consider those applications.
More recently, Mrs H and Mr S were in arrears and so werent eligible for payment holidays 
under the terms of their mortgage offer. I appreciate they wanted payment holidays to 
provide them with respite, including during periods when Mr Ss business was affected by ill 
health and injury. But this wasnt something they were entitled to under the terms of their 
mortgage. 
And Im satisfied that while it didnt offer them payment holidays, TMB did treat Mrs H and 
Mr S fairly in other ways. They were in regular contact with TMB, keeping it up to date with 
their situation, and making payments as and when they could. TMB agreed a series of 
payment arrangements with them, and showed forbearance over the years in not taking 
action to repossess the property and giving Mrs H and Mr S time to sell it. I understand this 
was a difficult time for them and it must have been very worrying for them to be experiencing 
financial difficulties that might lead to them losing their home. But in all the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly find that TMB was responsible for their difficulties, and I think it treated 
them fairly over this time. I dont therefore uphold this part of their complaint either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman