DRN-3534380
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unreasonably 
linked the conditions his dog suffered so as limit the payment of his claim under his pet 
policy. 
As Red Sands is the underwriter and ultimate decision maker on Mr Ls claim I shall just 
refer to Red Sands throughout which includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr L had a Superior Lifetime policy with Red Sands which provided an annual condition limit 
of £2,000 per condition per year. 
Mr Ls dog became ill in November 2021 following previous illness in February 2021 and 
sadly was put to sleep. Mr L contacted Red Sands on 15 November 2021 to explain his dog 
had died and to clarify his claim. He was wrongly told he still had £1,446.20 condition limit 
available to use. His vet submitted the last claim, but Red Sands said his condition limit had 
been met because both conditions his dog was suffering from were linked which meant his 
claim wasnt eligible for payment. It also wrongly quoted his condition limit was £1,000 not 
£2,000. 
So, Mr L complained. Red Sands in its final response letter of 23 November 2021 said the 
condition limit for pancreatitis, gastroenteritis and pneumonia was met in February 2021. It 
said from the clinical history his vet had linked the conditions. It explained it told Mr L this on 
18 February 2021. That letter also explained that Red Sands had wrongly paid a claim of 
£960.77 from the referral vet which given it was its mistake, it would not be asking Mr L to 
repay it. It confirmed that the adviser wrongly told Mr L on 15 November 2021 he still had 
£1,446.20 left. And it apologised for this and waived the £99 excess he had paid on a 
previous claim as compensation. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view 
that Red Sands had not done anything wrong in linking the conditions given the vet history. 
Mr L disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I am very sorry Mr Ls dog had to be put to sleep and I understand and appreciate how 
much more difficult this has made this complaint for Mr L and his family. Please accept my 
sincere condolences.
Secondly, I am very appreciative of the clarity Mr L has given us about his complaint. He 
contends that as the policy doesnt provide any detail on conditions being linked therefore 
refusing to pay his claim on that basis seeks to impose a limitation that simply isnt in the 
policy terms, so in effect it has been retrospectively introduced to his detriment, which he 
believes is unfair and unreasonable. Further as his own vet has now clarified that he doesnt 
believe the conditions were linked, thats sufficient evidence that they werent linked. And 
lastly, he would like his claim paid with both the excess and co-payment being waived. 
Initially I consider its useful to clarify the issues that arent in dispute. First, it was incorrect 
that Red Sands adviser told Mr L he still had £1,446.20 to use for his claim. However, that 
didnt impact Mr L as the treatment costs about to be claimed had already accrued. So other 
than mismanaging his expectations, it caused no other detriment. I consider it reasonable 
that Red Sands apologised for this and refunded Mr L a previous claims excess payment of 
£99 by way of compensation. Red Sands did correct its initial error in quoting that Mr L only 
had cover of £1,000 instead of £2,000.
I also consider it reasonable that Red Sands hasnt sought any refund for its mistake in 
wrongly paying the referral vets claim in the sum of £960.77 when the condition limit had 
been reached.
Such mistakes are regrettable given the confusion they initially cause, which does 
unnecessarily impact the consumers claims journey in a negative way. But as Red Sands 
corrected them and apologised, I consider that reasonable.
Turning now to central issue of this namely was Red Sands decision to decline Mr Ls claim 
reasonable, we must start with the policy wording. 
Condition in the policy is defined as follows:
Condition means any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or 
any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting 
from the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of 
your pets body affected.
I consider this definition includes conditions that may be linked by a disease process or 
indeed an illness. The physiology of illnesses often means one thing weakened another part 
of the body causing a further problem which, but for the original issue, the second issue 
would not have occurred. So, I dont agree there cant be linked conditions and I dont agree 
this policy wording precludes conditions being linked in the way that has happened here. As 
a result, I dont consider Red Sands made any attempt to retrospectively introduce any 
limitation beyond the policy terms to its own advantage and to Mr Ls detriment. 
All pet insurers rely on what the treating vets put in the vet history. Vets are fully aware what 
they say will be relied on by pet insurers for the payment of any claim as this is part of their 
training and regulation. Here there is clear evidence that Mr Ls treating vets linked the 
conditions of pancreatitis, gastroenteritis and pneumonia together throughout the vet history. 
And essentially if Mr L has a difficulty with that, that is between him and his vets and its not 
a matter for Red Sands or indeed this service, as vets arent regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and therefore this service has no jurisdiction to deal with any complaints 
about vets. Our role is to assess whether based on the evidence provided to Red Sands that 
Red Sands then followed the policy terms and conditions and came to its decision 
reasonably.
In looking at the claims Red Sands received and the vet history, its clear that 
pancreatitis/gastroenteritis were initially treated separately from pneumonia. The cost limit for pneumonia was reached in in the policy year 11 January 2021 to 12 January 2022. This 
was confirmed by Red Sands in its letter to Mr L of 16 February 2021 and indeed Mr L 
confirms he paid further treatment costs for pneumonia himself throughout the rest of that 
policy year. 
However, Mr Ls primary vet presented a claim on 17 February 2021 firmly then linking 
pancreatitis/gastroenteritis and pneumonia together as they described the pneumonia as 
secondary. This is significant in my view and clearly details the thoughts and views of the vet 
the time. Which means in turn that it wouldnt be reasonable to ignore this. Further this claim 
form clearly details the conditions were first noted in October 2019. 
The referral vet also links the conditions together by means of exclusion of anything else. 
They said the exact cause of the aspiration pneumonia has not been established and 
concluded it is therefore reasonable to assume that an unseen vomit or reflux episode 
associated with [name of dogs] longer-term history of pancreatitis and gastrointestinal 
disease. This also links all three conditions as being the only reasonable answer at that time 
according to these referral vets. 
In July 2021 in the vet history, it shows the further bouts of pneumonia with the entry for 30 
July 2021 clearly linking all three conditions. 
Lastly, on 14 November 2021 the vet history clearly identifies the following:
Problem list:
- pneumonia (R mid lobe consolidated, B lines)
- GI discomfort - cPLi +ve, slow gastric emptying, LI some fluid
- stiffness all Hls but more so Hls at home past month or so
- mental depression - seems really pronounced this time.
Red Sands sought the opinion of an external consultant vet. She noted in November 2021 
the chest x-rays confirmed pneumonia but there was also documented regurgitation at the 
time which had previously been linked by the referral vets. So, she concluded it was fair to 
link them. Her job was to analyse the vet history evidence only, which doesnt require access 
to the dog. 
As against all that, we have Mr Ls treating vet deciding after Red Sands declined to pay his 
claim, saying the following on 30 November 2021:
  
11th Nov onwards, although I imaged changes in her right lung lobe with the scanner 
she had no cough, no respiratory signs, no pyrexia. I was putting the changes down 
to chronic lung changes. This episode was purely gastrointestinal  the positive cPLi 
and the lack of findings on ultrasound made the pancreatitis the most likely.
However, this doesnt explain why the conditions were linked by this same vet practice as far 
back as February 2021. Nor indeed does it explain the clear entry on 14 November which 
was describing pneumonia as a problem too. This entry also confirms changes in the lung in 
any event, which I again consider significant. 
I consider on balance that the vets did decide all these conditions were linked and that 
includes the treating vet and the referral vet. And I consider the treating vet was clear on this 
link when he wrote the notes on 14 November 2021. That for me carries more weight that a 
post insurance decision review by the treating vet after the event. So, I dont consider Red 
Sands were wrong to also come to this conclusion. I think taking all the vet history into 
account the likelihood the dog was suffering all these conditions and that they were linked is 
more probable on balance than not. Therefore, I conclude that Red Sands decision was a 
reasonable one to make on this evidence presented by the vet history.My final decision
I do appreciate and understand that Mr L will be very disappointed with my decision, but for 
these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman