DRN-4401408
The complaint
Miss F complains about the decision taken by PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA trading as 
PayPal (PayPal) to decline her claims made under its Buyer Protection Policy and section 
75.
What happened
Miss F used her revolving credit account provided by PayPal to purchase remote 
hypnotherapy sessions in April 2023 from a practitioner Ill refer to as H. Miss F paid $1,350 
AUD for three sessions and I believe she did so having read a book she understood to have 
been written by H.
Miss F subsequently read another book by H. She says that she had cause to question 
whether they were written by the same person, and after seeking clarification from H, Miss F 
was told that H had co-authored the first book Miss F read. 
Ive seen that Miss F subsequently told H shed presumed that it had written the book solely 
and that knowing whether or not that was the case wouldve made a difference to her 
decision to enter into the agreement. She asked for a full refund on the basis that there had 
been a misrepresentation and a breach of contract as the services offered were not as 
described.
H told Miss F that under her agreement it was entitled to apply a 50% surcharge in the event 
of her cancelling the service. It refunded 50% of the cost.
Miss F subsequently raised a claim with PayPal on 11 May 2023. She said that the service 
shed paid for had been misrepresented.
PayPal refused Miss Fs claim on 16 May 2023, having considered its Buyer Protection 
Policy. It didnt think the service offered by H had been misrepresented.
On 17 May 2023 Miss F asked to raise a section 75 claim with PayPal, maintaining the 
service offered by H had been misrepresented. The same day PayPal responded to say that 
it didnt consider the evidence Miss F had provided substantiated a claim of 
misrepresentation. 
Miss F asked this service to consider a complaint about what had happened on 1 August 
2023. PayPal provided a submission defending how it had handled Miss Fs claims on 14 
August 2023. 
Our investigator didnt agree that the evidence Miss F had presented showed that there had 
been a breach of her agreement, or that it had been misrepresented. They therefore 
concluded that PayPal had handled Miss Fs claims fairly.
PayPal didnt respond. Miss F disagreed with our investigators findings. She said that H had 
misrepresented their skillset and purported to have been the sole author of the books shed 
read, which is also a misrepresentation. Miss F said she entered into an agreement with H in 
reliance on its published/ advertised skillset.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F made a number of detailed submissions to this service regarding her complaint. She 
might find that Ive presented events in far less detail than in her submissions. Thats simply 
because I dont find it necessary to mirror that level of detail in explaining what I think a fair 
and reasonable outcome is. So, if I dont mention something that Miss F did, its not because 
Ive not considered it  I can assure Miss F that Ive carefully considered all of her 
submissions in detail. My decision will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. 
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss Fs complaint is about whether PayPal fairly handled her claims regarding the 
misrepresentation of an agreement she entered into with H. I havent seen evidence from 
either party that PayPal actually considered a complaint about the outcome of Miss Fs 
claims. However, this service made PayPal aware of Miss Fs request to raise a complaint in 
August of this year, and it hasnt  to date  said that its been deprived of the opportunity to 
respond. Rather, it provided a submission file explaining why it believed it had handled the 
claims fairly. So, I think its fair to say that PayPal has had sufficient opportunity to consider a 
complaint about the outcome of the claims if it had wished to do so. 
PayPal initially considered Miss Fs allegations under its Buyer Protection Program, 
specifically a Significantly Not as Described (SND) claim. PayPal has provided its criteria 
for SND claims. They say (amongst other things) that an item may be considered SND if it is 
materially different from the sellers description of it. 
By Miss Fs own account she made contact with H and entered into an agreement with it to 
provide hypnotherapy session on the presumption that H was the sole author of a book 
shed read. Ive not seen any evidence from Miss F  either provided to this service or as 
part of her claim with PayPal, that the service H intended to provide would be materially 
different from the service she entered into an agreement for. So I dont think PayPal unfairly 
declined this part of Miss Fs claim. 
Miss F also raised a section 75 claim with PayPal. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in certain 
circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier. In practice that means that if Miss F has a claim against 
the supplier for misrepresentation or breach of contract, then she also has a like claim 
against the finance provider.
A misrepresentation is a statement of fact by one party to a contract, which isnt true, and 
which persuades the other party to enter into the contract.Based on all of the evidence Miss F has provided to both this service, as well as to PayPal at 
the time of the claim, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to say that PayPal ought to 
have upheld Miss Fs claim on the basis that a misrepresentation had been made. 
I say this because Miss F accepts that she sought the services of H having made a 
presumption that it had written a book she read. She hasnt provided any evidence to show, 
for example, that H represented to her that it was the sole author of that particular book as 
part of the negotiations for the treatment she agreed to. And significantly, Ive not seen that 
Miss F demonstrated that to PayPal. 
Ive also not seen any other evidence which persuades me that H made a false statement of 
fact about the service it had entered into an agreement with Miss F for. So I dont think 
PayPal unfairly declined Miss Fs section 75 claim on this basis. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It implies terms into Miss Fs 
agreement which says any service provided must be performed with reasonable care and 
skill. Reasonable care and skill isnt defined in the CRA, but I think an appropriate 
interpretation is the degree of care and skill to be expected of someone who provides those 
services of ordinary competence and experience. 
Ive also carefully considered Miss Fs assertion that her claim ought to have been upheld 
because it wouldnt have been possible for H to have carried out the treatment with 
reasonable skill and care, as it wouldve been required to. So, Ive also considered whether 
theres been a breach of contract.
Its difficult to say whether or not that wouldve been the case, because Miss F ultimately 
chose to cancel the treatment. But in any event, in my view Ive not been provided with 
evidence from Miss F which persuades me that H wouldnt have been able to carry out the 
treatment specified in her agreement with it, with reasonable skill and care. And for that 
reason, I dont think PayPal acted unfairly in declining her claim on that basis either. 
Overall, I dont find that PayPal handled Miss Fs claims unfairly because I dont think it 
ought to have found that there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract, based on 
the evidence available to it at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman