DRN-3089981
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua is holding him responsible for an account 
that he didnt open.
What happened
Mr G says that he received a letter in January 2020 from debt collectors about borrowing of 
£976 on an account in his name with NewDay. He says that he had moved out of the 
address that was given when the account was opened. And that someone else must have 
used his details and he knows nothing about this account. He has since left this country.
NewDay said that it was holding Mr G responsible. It said that a credit search showed that 
information about other active accounts for Mr G matched to the details it held. It had 
reported a default relating to this account and wouldnt be removing it.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, that Mr G not be held 
responsible for the account and borrowing and that all reference to his debt be removed from 
third party records.
She said that she had contacted a different financial business about a bank account also 
opened in Mr Gs name at this time. The details held for him matched those NewDay had. 
This account had only ever received cash credits. One payment for £100 had been made 
from this account in July 2019 to the NewDay account. A direct debit to NewDay had been 
set up then, but all attempts to collect the direct debit had been returned unpaid. Mr G didnt 
recognise this account either and she said it was likely that it was used to disguise the 
fraudulent opening of the NewDay account. As he was out of the country she could 
understand why he hadnt taken any further action about this account.
Mr G explained that he had a genuine bank account with a completely different financial 
business at the time of the disputed payments. He had provided statements for this showing 
a credit for what seemed to be his salary. And a refund from a council which tied to evidence 
hed provided of him moving out of his previous address on 8 April 2019. The email address 
and mobile number for his genuine account differed to those for him held by NewDay. And 
the account with NewDay was opened in May 2019 after hed moved.
NewDay didnt agree. It said it had contacted the financial business holding the account from 
which the direct debits were attempted. It had said that the balance on that account was 
repaid on 14 September 2021 and closure requested. NewDay said that no fraudster would 
pay an outstanding balance and request closure. Even after Mr G had found out about this 
account he had taken no action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that our investigator had asked NewDay for all the application details for the 
account. And I understand that it relied for the identification of Mr G on the details of the 
bank account which Mr G accepts is his. But as our investigator has said his email and 
phone details didnt match to those on his genuine account. Ive looked at what Mr G 
provided about him moving address including contact with the council. Im satisfied based on 
the evidence provided by Mr G that he left the address involved before the NewDay account 
application. 
Ive looked at the statements on the NewDay account. Payments started in May 2019 after a 
card was activated on 21 May 2019. Statements then gave the old address details for Mr G. 
In July 2019 NewDay suspended the account as no repayments had been made. On 17 July 
2019 a credit for £100 was made and a direct debit set up. This allowed the account to be 
used again and payments made taking the account over its limit. As set out none of the 
direct debits that were requested were paid. The account defaulted and was passed to debt 
collectors. Mr G first got in touch about the account in February 2020.
NewDay wants me to make inferences about the bank account with the direct debit 
mandate. Its position is that this is a genuine account. And because the details match to 
those it has for Mr G and a payment was made from it then the NewDay account was 
genuine too. It hasnt provided evidence to support what it says about it being closed and an 
unspecified balance repaid. And I think that I can reasonably expect it to demonstrate that 
this isnt a case of identity theft for Mr G primarily based on its own evidence and the 
account opening process.
Im not satisfied from the evidence provided that NewDay has established that it is most 
likely it had an application from the genuine Mr G at the time the account was opened. I think 
that a third party could have obtained his details after he moved. I take into account that 
there are no copies of any identification documents received at the time provided here. And 
NewDays checks didnt identify that the address was no longer current for Mr G and there 
are discrepancies to the information held for his genuine bank account. I also consider that 
the payments from the other bank account that Mr G says he doesnt recognise are 
consistent with the continued fraudulent operation of the NewDay account. And Im not going 
to be able to resolve in a complaint about NewDay who, if thats right, might quite recently 
have repaid an unspecified balance on that account and why. And I wont also fairly draw 
any adverse inference from it being said that Mr G didnt contact that other bank before now 
especially as he has been abroad and didnt have any other details about it. The position for 
the NewDay account is that Mr G hasnt repaid it as he says it isnt his account. And I find on 
balance he isnt responsible for it.
Putting things right
NewDay says that it has already written off the debt and isnt looking to collect it. As it found 
that this was Mr Gs debt it removed protective markers from CIFAS, the national fraud 
database. But it has reported details of the account and the default including to credit 
reference agencies. I agree with the resolution of the investigator and which is that all 
reference to this debt linked to Mr G should be removed and for the avoidance of doubt that 
Mr G be deemed not responsible for it.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua:
1) Not to pursue or hold Mr G liable for this account or any balance.
2) To remove the reporting of this debt and a related default from any third parties 
including credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman