DRN-3578492
The complaint
Miss T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a payment she made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2018, Miss Ts brother introduced her to a work colleague of his, who she was told was 
good on the stock market. Ill refer to the work colleague as B. Miss T says B had been 
investing for other work colleagues and made money for them. However, B was no longer 
doing the investing and instead was using a firm called S. Miss T was told that B had 
invested with S previously and received returns.
Miss T says, as she trusted B, she didnt do her own due diligence. However, she did an 
online search for the directors of S and found articles which described the directors as highly 
reputable and highly regarded within the financial sector. Miss T says the directors were 
portrayed as market leaders, experts in their field and extremely successful wealth 
management consultants. Miss T says the information she found supported what B had told 
her. 
Miss T signed a funding agreement with S, which said Miss T was in effect providing a loan 
to S. For her loaning them £100,000, Miss T would receive a monthly interest payment of 
£1,250. Miss T says she was told that 20% of her £100,000 would be used for Forex trading 
by S, with the remaining 80% of the payment held in a bank account  which would be 
secured in a similar nature to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
protection which is provided in the UK on deposits of up to £85,000. Miss T was told that S 
expected to generate the value of her monthly interest payment from their Forex Trading.
On 15 February 2018, Miss T made an international payment to S for £100,000.
When Miss T didnt receive her first interest payment, she contacted S and was told it was 
due to a glitch. Miss T received the payment approximately a month later, but this was the 
only payment that Miss T received from S.
Miss T has provided the following information about S and the beneficiary bank S held their 
account with:
In September 2018, the beneficiary bank was taken under the control of the Danish 
financial regulator.  An article says the beneficiary bank was engaged in serious 
violations of financial regulation in a number of areas from September 2015 to 
September 2018.
In March 2019, a cease and desist order was issued against the directors of S. Later 
the same month liquidation proceedings commenced against S.
In April 2019, Miss T completed a claims submission in relation to the liquidation 
setting out what she was owed by S  which included the loan capital of £100,000 
and missed interest payments.
In July 2019, Miss T received a letter from the mandated liquidator of S. This letter 
said it was hard to understand why S had collapsed and suggested the business 
construct distinctly appears to be a ponzi scheme.
In September 2019, the beneficiary bank was charged with money laundering.
In October 2019, Miss T received a follow up letter from the mandated liquidator. This 
letter told Miss T that the liquidator didnt understand how S had lost so much of their 
investors money in FX trading. But, that one of the directors was denying using the 
money for his own purposes and that the liquidator had no evidence to support he 
had.
Later in October 2019, S was discontinued due to lack of assets.
Miss T and other investors initially approached S directly because they werent 
getting the promised returns/interest payments. Miss T says they didnt report S at 
that time because S offered a recovery scheme, however she now believes this was 
just a delay tactic.
Based on her investigation she believes the beneficiary bank was owned and 
operated by an organized gang and was laundering money. Also, that the Danish 
financial regulator had concerns as early as 2012 about the beneficiary bank, yet 
they allowed them to continue operating until September 2018.
As she hadnt received any funds back from S, Miss T raised a fraud claim with HSBC in 
2021 and asked them to refund the money shed lost to the scam. Miss T felt HSBC 
shouldve known about the irregularities of the beneficiary bank and prevented her from 
making the payment to an account held with them.  Also, that since sending these funds, 
shes been warned by HSBC against sending further funds to that same beneficiary bank. 
Miss T also believes that HSBC shouldve asked her questions while in the branch making 
the payment, and that if they had, it wouldve prevented her from falling victim to the scam.
HSBC declined to refund Miss T saying theyd conducted fraud detection checks when she 
made the payment but had no reason not to process her payment instruction. They also felt 
it was unclear if Miss T had been the victim of a scam, saying that it appeared S was a 
genuine company that had financially failed. 
Miss T wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, they said it 
was unclear whether or not she had been the victim of a scam, as it appeared that S had 
financially failed. But whether it was a scam or not, they couldnt fairly ask HSBC to refund 
Miss T. The investigator said there was nothing to suggest that HSBC were aware of any 
concerns around the beneficiary bank, and that even if HSBC had questioned Miss T about 
the payment  it was unlikely HSBC wouldve had any concerns based on Miss T being 
recommended the investment by a trusted third party and the positive reviews shed seen 
online. The investigator acknowledged that HSBC hadnt tried to recover the funds for Miss T 
from the beneficiary bank because they didnt consider the situation a scam, however, even 
if they had they wouldnt have been able to get any funds back for Miss T.
HSBC agreed with the investigators opinion, however Miss T disagreed. Miss T responded 
saying:
The liquidator states his belief that it was a ponzi scheme, but in order to prove it 
would require the investigators to pay for a formal investigation  which they cant 
afford to do because of their losses.If HSBC had asked questions about the payment, its unlikely she wouldve continued 
to make the payment. Miss T highlighted that she doesnt have the knowledge of a 
banking professional, and as the professional, HSBC shouldve raised serious 
concerns with her  which wouldve prevented her from making the payment. Miss T 
also thinks she wouldnt have been able to successfully appease the concerns HSBC 
wouldve raised which wouldve resulted in the payment not being made.
At the time of making the payment, Miss T was particularly vulnerable due to her 
personal circumstances, as such if HSBC had challenged her decision to invest  
she wouldnt have been able to cope and wouldnt have proceeded with the payment.
That any questions about the investment, wouldve discovered what Miss T was told 
about 80% of her funds were being protected  which wasnt true. And, any indication 
from HSBC that her money might be at risk, wouldve prevented Miss T from making 
the payment as she never wouldve taken a risk with the funds, as they came from an 
inheritance.
As Miss T didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, there is an 
obligation on HSBC be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, potentially 
falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious 
activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations when potential fraud is 
identified, I would expect HSBC to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the customer.
Should HSBC have prevented Miss T from making the payment?
In this case, Miss T made a payment of £100,000 which was done in branch with the help of 
branch staff. Im satisfied that there is enough about this payment that makes it unusual and 
out of character, whereby HSBC shouldve been concerned and asked Miss T some 
questions in order to satisfy themselves she wasnt at risk of financial harm.
The type of questions that I would expect HSBC to have asked would include: what was the 
purpose of the payment, how Miss T had found the investment (for example was she cold 
called), what research had she done or what did she know about S, what sort of return was 
she being promised and whether she had checked the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
website to see if S were regulated or there were any warnings.
I wouldnt expect HSBC to have interrogated Miss T, or to have done research on the 
investment or scrutinised the contract/agreement in the depth that I believe Miss T expects. 
And, while I appreciate Miss Ts point that HSBC are the professionals, there is a limit to the 
knowledge and research that I would expect of the branch staff. Generally, I would expect 
them to be listening out for any of the usual scam warning signs which might include a rate 
of return that is too good to be true, the name of the investment company if its one that they 
know has been cloned by fraudsters, a lack of research completed by the consumer to ensure the investment is legitimate, a lack of understanding about the investment by the 
customer, or situations where a customer has been contacted out of the blue with an 
investment opportunity. 
There are no set questions that I can fairly say HSBC shouldve asked as it will vary 
depending on the discussion theyre having with their customer, as well as the information 
theyre being given in the response to questions. But the questions Ive suggested above are 
basic questions that, in the circumstances of this case, I think it wouldve been reasonable 
for HSBC to have asked.
Where its not clear exactly what happened, or when there is a lack of evidence or 
incomplete evidence, I only have to reach my decision based on what I think is most likely 
having weighed up all the evidence. In this case, that means deciding what is likely to have 
been the outcome if those questions had been asked and whether it wouldve meant the 
payment wasnt made.
Based on the information Miss T gave us Im not persuaded that a discussion with HSBC 
wouldve prevented the payment being made for the following reasons:
Miss T was recommended the investment by someone her brother knew, and more 
importantly trusted. Miss T says that B had been investing for other work colleagues 
and made money for them, and that B had invested with S previously and received 
returns. Miss T has said that she did limited checks because she trusted B. I think it 
wouldve been reassuring to HSBC that Miss T was recommended the investment by 
B (especially as they were someone her brother knew) and means I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to have recommended Miss T seek independent advice on the investment 
before proceeding with the payment.
Miss T had done some research on the directors of S and found only positive articles 
which reinforced her belief that this was a genuine investment. I think the checks 
Miss T had done, the information she found and the fact that she didnt find any 
warnings or bad reviews about S would also have reassured HSBC that this was a 
legitimate investment.
The fact that S werent authorised by the FCA, isnt in this case a reason for HSBC 
not to have proceeded with the payment. S wasnt based in the UK so wouldnt be 
regulated by the FCA. But, there also werent any warnings on the FCAs website 
which is often the case with cloned investment firms or firms operating in the UK 
without authorisation. So, any checks done on the FCA website for S wouldnt have 
caused concern for HSBC. Also, S was regulated in their country of origin which 
wouldve provided some reassurance for HSBC about their legitimacy. And, while 
Miss T has said that the Danish regulator had concerns about S prior to her making 
her payment  I havent been able to find anything online that supports this which 
wouldve been available if a search was done at the time of the payment. All of the 
articles that Miss T has given us were produced or posted after her payment. And 
while some of the articles suggest there were earlier issues with the beneficiary bank 
and S, I cant see that this was actually documented and available for anyone doing 
checks in February 2018. 
The return that Miss T was being offered wasnt so high, whereby I feel HSBC 
shouldve been concerned. The return in the agreement was 1.25% per month, which 
is high. However, Miss T was making a loan to the company rather than making a 
standard investment. But, more importantly, Miss T says that B had been making 
money for other people and had himself been using S and made returns. I think in 
these circumstances, that Miss T wouldve had confidence that if B had received 
returns from S, that this return was achievable. And I think its most likely that the recommendation wouldve provided some reassurance to HSBC too.
So, having thought about the type of questions I wouldve expected HSBC to ask, and the 
answers I think Miss T wouldve given  Im not persuaded that HSBC shouldve been 
concerned that Miss T was at risk of financial harm. On that basis, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC acted unreasonably in following Miss Ts payment instruction and I wouldnt have 
expected them to prevent the payment. 
Miss T says she was particularly vulnerable at the time of making the payment, and that if 
HSBC had challenged her or suggested that her funds would be at risk  she wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the payment. But, as Ive set out above, Im not satisfied that the questions 
HSBC wouldve asked, wouldve caused them concern, so I cant fairly say they shouldve 
challenged Miss T. I would only expect a challenge to happen where the bank identified 
concerning information  which isnt the case here. 
Miss T also feels HSBC shouldve known that the beneficiary bank (whom S banked with) 
was involved in inappropriate practices and therefore prevented her from making a payment 
to them. But I havent seen anything that suggests HSBC was on notice, or had been issued 
a warning, not to deal with that bank. Usually the UK regulator would provide banks with 
warnings about overseas banks they should no longer use or transact with. I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to do their own independent checks on individual beneficiary banks. So, while Miss T 
may think HSBC shouldve had concerns about the beneficiary bank, Im not satisfied that 
this was the case or that HSBC had any knowledge of issues with the beneficiary bank that 
meant they shouldnt have processed her payment.
Also, Miss T says HSBC shouldve realised that the information she was given about how 
her funds would be used by S was unusual and shouldve caused concern. Part of which 
was the information she was given about 80% of her payment being held by S in an 
overseas bank account that provided protection similar to the scheme the FSCS provides in 
the UK. However, Im not persuaded that all of this information wouldve been provided as 
part of the questions I would have expected HSBC to ask. Also, Im not persuaded that I can 
fairly expect the branch staff to have gone into the intricate details of the funding agreement 
Miss T had entered into, or have sufficient knowledge to tell Miss T whether or not a 
overseas regulated business could offer this protection. 
I think that if Miss T had been cold called and hadnt been recommended this investment 
then the discussion about the type of investment mightve been more detailed. But, in these 
circumstances where Miss T wouldve told HSBC that the investment was recommended by 
a trusted work colleague of her brothers who had invested with the same company and had 
returns  Im not satisfied that HSBC shouldve obtained this level of detail about the 
investment. Or, if HSBC were given that level of detail about the investment, shouldnt have 
followed Miss Ts payment instructions based on the research shed done and the 
recommendation shed been given. 
Having considered everything very carefully, Im not persuaded that HSBC acted 
unreasonably in processing Miss Ts payment and cant fairly ask them to refund Miss T.
Should HSBC refund for any other reason?
Its worth noting that even if this wasnt a scam, then I still wouldnt ask HSBC to refund  
Miss T. I say this because HSBC is only required to be on the look-out for signs of potential 
financial harm in relation to customers falling victim to a scam. Where a customer, in this 
case Miss T, is making a payment as part of a legitimate investment outside of the products 
HSBC offer themselves  HSBC has no obligation to identify potentially risky or unusual investments or to refund Miss T if an investment firm financially folds or the investment falls 
through or turns out not to provide the expected returns. 
Also, Im aware that HSBC didnt contact the beneficiary bank to try and recover the funds 
when Miss T raised her fraud claim in 2021. But by 2021, S had already gone into 
liquidation, so no funds wouldve been recoverable if HSBC had contacted the beneficiary 
bank. So, I cant fairly say that HSBC couldve done more to try and recover Miss Ts funds.
I appreciate that Miss T is going to be very upset, but I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman