DRN-3172127
The complaint
Miss V complained that Nationwide Building Society failed to pay a direct debit for a loan
shed taken out with a different bank. She said that this caused her distress, and risked
affecting her credit file.
  
What happened
Miss V has a current account with Nationwide. She took out a personal loan with a different
bank, and set up a direct debit to make the monthly repayments. But the first one failed.
Miss V made a manual payment, and complained to both banks. The bank that holds her
personal loan said it had asked Nationwide for the money, but it hadnt paid. That bank said
that whatever had gone wrong, wasnt its fault. And it said it couldnt promise that Miss Vs
credit file wouldnt be affected. But if Miss V could show Nationwide accepted responsibility
for what had gone wrong, it would amend her credit file so there would be no negative
impact for Miss V.
Miss V said that Nationwide repeatedly denied responsibility, and she was stuck in the
middle between the two banks. Nationwide claimed that it didnt get a payment request from
the other bank. And that other bank said that it had made the payment request, and
Nationwide had refused to make the payment.
But then Nationwide eventually sent the letter that the other bank needed, to confirm that the
failed direct debit was its fault after all. Miss V wanted us to take into account how much
shed been affected by the stress and worry in this case.
Nationwide said that it had looked into what had happened. Miss Vs account was blocked at
the time that the other bank requested the first repayment for the loan. That block is the
subject of a separate complaint, and we wont be looking at the reasons for that here.
Nationwide said that direct debits shouldnt be affected by this account block, but Nationwide
has concluded that something must have gone wrong with this direct debit, because it was a
new instruction rather than a pre-existing payment. So it upheld Miss Vs complaint, and
provided a letter for the other bank, accepting responsibility for what had gone wrong. That
meant Miss Vs credit file could be amended.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that Miss Vs account
was blocked between 22 February 2021 and 3 March 2021, but that had been investigated
separately. This case is just about the failed direct debit.
Our investigator thought the direct debit had been requested by the other bank in early
March. It wasnt paid, and that bank told Miss V shed missed a payment. Miss V contacted
Nationwide on 11 March to find out why the payment didnt go through. She raised a
complaint on the same day, and on 12 March, Nationwide issued a complaint response, and
it sent Miss V a letter she could send to the other bank, to accept responsibility.
Miss Vs partner has set out the effect of this incident on her, and our investigator said she
had considered that. Although Nationwide fixed things the day after it was contacted, Miss V
was still affected. The payment should have cleared, and Miss V shouldnt have had to worry
about that, or that this would show up on her credit file. And our investigator said Nationwide
knew Miss V was vulnerable. Our investigator said because of the emotional impact and the
distress and inconvenience, she thought Nationwide should pay £100 compensation.
Miss Vs partner got in touch to say that he was unhappy with this. He was hoping for
between £1,000-£5,000. Our investigator said that this wasnt the sort of amount that we
would suggest Nationwide should pay for what had happened. So the case was passed to
me for a final decision.
Miss Vs partner got in touch again, to say that he was puzzled by the timescales wed
mentioned, with the issue happening between 11 and 12 March. Miss V said that she was
first made aware of the issue with the failed direct debit on 9 March, and she thought that
she had made contact with the other bank at this point. They both remembered several days
and hours of phone calls and rejection, before the issue was resolved.
Miss V wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so this case was then passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that any impact on Miss Vs credit file has now been resolved, and the 
only outstanding issue is compensation for what went wrong, and how that impacted 
Miss V.
Nationwide says that Miss V didnt get in touch with it until 11 March about the failed 
direct debit. I have looked at the notes Nationwide made at the time, and I havent 
been able to see that Miss V had spoken to Nationwide before then. And Ive listened 
to the call Miss V had with Nationwide on 11 March. That makes no reference to 
earlier contact about this issue  Miss V explained to Nationwide on that call what 
she thought had gone wrong.
Miss Vs recollection is that she had a number of days of discussion with the other 
bank before this. But Ive looked at the notes that this bank made too, and I havent 
been able to see that Miss V had spoken to that bank before 11 March. The letter it 
sent to her thanks her for her call on 11 March. And I also note that when Miss Vs 
partner spoke to Nationwide on the second call of 11 March, he referred to 
considerable efforts made over the course of that day to resolve this issue. So it does 
look like this issue was first raised with both banks on 11 March.
I know Nationwide didnt accept, on the two calls Ive listened to from 11 March, that 
what had gone wrong with the direct debit was its fault. But I can also see Nationwide 
did what it could to resolve this complaint by 12 March. So I think Nationwide acted 
very promptly.
I can hear, on the calls Ive listened to, just how much Miss V was affected by this. 
Our investigator has pointed out that Nationwide was aware of how vulnerable Miss 
V was. But I dont think that Nationwide has prolonged this issue at all, I do think it 
dealt with Miss Vs complaint quickly. Although Nationwides internal notes suggest it 
wasnt sure at the time that this was its mistake, it didnt wait to make sure of that. Instead, it accepted responsibility right away, and took action to make sure Miss Vs 
credit file wasnt affected.
I do think that what has gone wrong here was Nationwides fault. So I think its right 
that Nationwide should pay some compensation. Miss Vs partner thought 
Nationwide should pay some thousands of pounds in compensation. But I dont think 
it would be consistent with other awards our service makes to ask Nationwide to 
make a payment of that amount. 
It does appear to me that this issue only affected Miss V on 11 and 12 March. So I 
also think that a payment of £100, as our investigator suggested, would provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Thats what I would have proposed in this 
case, if our investigator hadnt already suggested this amount. Thats what I currently 
propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide simply acknowledged receipt of my decision and said it had nothing to add.
Miss Vs representative replied. He asked whether the process followed on this complaint 
was the same as another complaint hed raised with us. Our investigator has confirmed this 
is the same. 
Miss Vs representative queried our process of issuing an investigators view to both sides. 
He said he felt that when you present interim findings you surely put yourself in a position 
where overturning that decision is weak in the eyes of the recipient of the complaint. 
I understand that Miss Vs representative felt that there was less scope for me to disagree 
with the investigator, because that investigators view had been shared with both parties. Id 
like to reassure him that this is very definitely not the case. When a case comes to me, or 
indeed to any of my ombudsman colleagues, we carry out a complete review of all the 
evidence, and we then make our own independent decision on that case. Ombudsmen are 
not bound in any way by the investigators view, and we are not, as Miss Vs representative 
apparently fears, nudged in any particular direction by that view. 
This case is indeed an example of this. Whilst Ive reached the same overall conclusion on 
the complaint as our investigator, I reached that conclusion for different reasons. Thats why 
a provisional decision was issued in this case, to set out the basis of that different decision. 
Miss Vs representative also said he also wanted to further dispute the statement that Miss V 
was only affected on 11th and 12th March. He said Miss V had managed to locate a missed 
call to her mobile on 9 March at midday and an answered call on 10 March at 13.30pm. 
These were from the other bank, which was expecting her to pay her first instalment onto her 
loan. Miss Vs representative also said Miss V was also aware by text there was an issue.
Miss Vs representative said Miss V had needed to deal with a family emergency on 10 
March. Her representative said this confirms that the period Miss V was affected wasnt 
limited to 11 to 12 March, despite her not understanding or being able to trace the full 
situation back to Nationwide at that time.Miss Vs representative also wanted to query whether Nationwide had prolonged this issue. 
He said Nationwide had taken at least two calls where it denied all responsibility and refused 
to offer any assistance. Miss Vs representative felt that if it wasnt for their extreme levels of 
perseverance, Nationwide would have done absolutely nothing to resolve this. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss V had a particularly difficult and upsetting family situation to deal 
with, around this time. 
I do think its clear from the calls with Nationwide that I have listened to, that Miss V and her 
representative first spoke to Nationwide about this on 11 March. And we know that 
Nationwide wrote to Miss V accepting responsibility for the missed payment on 12 March.
I have previously set out my view that Nationwide did act promptly to resolve this issue. 
Nationwide has fifteen days to provide a response to a complaint like this one, and that can 
be simply a holding response, so it can take longer than this for an issue to be resolved. 
Against that background, I do think that in acting to accept responsibility, in writing, the next 
day, Nationwide acted very quickly to support Miss V. 
I understand that Miss V may have been aware of this problem before 11 March, but I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to hold Nationwide responsible for any additional effect 
on Miss V which happened because she wasnt able to contact the bank about this earlier, 
as a result of her family emergency.  
Miss Vs representative also said that he felt that my provisional decision misrepresented his 
approach to the complaint. He said his recollection was that he was pushed to put a figure 
on this complaint, despite his reluctance to answer and his explanation that this complaint 
wasnt raised in the interest of compensation, he eventually gave the answer that if it went to 
court he would suggest a figure starting at £1,000.
I apologise if my very brief summary of what was a lengthy call has offended Miss Vs 
representative. Its never my intention to do that.
Miss Vs representative said that he found the conversations surrounding monetary 
compensation to be somewhat vulgar as the ideal situation would have been for Miss Vs 
mental health to not have been impacted in the first instance by the failings of her bank. Miss 
Vs representative said he also pointed out that monetarily he had spent considerably more 
than £100 in personal costs dealing with the complaint. 
I do quite understand that Miss V would very much prefer that this problem hadnt occurred. 
Im also aware that Miss Vs representative spent time on the phone to Nationwide on 11 
March, and then has spent a considerable amount of time pursuing this complaint, including 
with our service. 
As I understand it, Miss Vs representative has objected to the compensation amount I 
proposed for two reasons. He doesnt feel it reflects the impact on Miss V, and he has also 
said that £100 wont cover his lost income, for the time he spent on this case. 
Before I look at the overall impact on Miss V, I would like to respond to this second point. 
Unfortunately, our service isnt able to pay compensation based on the impact of a case on 
someone who isnt the complainant. The legislation which underpins this service prevents us 
from doing so.
Miss Vs representative said that when he began the process he was hoping that it would be 
possible to institute some positive change and prevent this sort of thing happening to others. He said he still hoped for that to happen although he had been told that this was distinctly 
not the purpose of our office.
I know that our investigator has explained to Miss Vs representative that our service isnt a 
regulator, and we cannot insist on the wider change that Miss Vs representative has told us 
he would like. We can only look at whats happened in Miss Vs individual case.
Miss Vs representative said that Miss V had been told that this would definitely affect her 
credit file. But wed said that wasnt the case. Miss Vs representative said we would be able 
to check this. 
I understand our investigator has previously reassured Miss V on this point. Miss V can also 
check this, by viewing her own credit file. However, even if Miss Vs credit file hadnt been 
amended by the other bank, as shed asked, I would still say Im satisfied that, in writing to 
Miss V to accept responsibility for the unpaid direct debit, Nationwide has taken all the steps 
it could to make sure Miss Vs credit file hasnt been affected by what went wrong here. 
Miss Vs representative set out his view that this was a huge failure on Nationwides behalf, 
first in not honouring direct debits during an account freeze, to refusing to acknowledge any 
fault on multiple calls, pushing Miss V back and forth between two banks who both refused 
responsibility, leading to Miss V feeling extremely vulnerable at an already outrageously 
difficult time in her life, with no option provided for escalation despite her situation being 
made clear, and still accepting no wrong-doing right up until our service made contact 
(despite writing to the contrary). 
Miss Vs representative said that he wasnt sure we were truly taking into account the impact 
on Miss Vs mental health. He said that Miss V had been dealing with a huge variety of 
resultant issues since this and another complaint against Nationwide. 
Miss Vs representative said that he didnt feel there had been any understanding offered 
about how the combined impact of Nationwides failings had created an unfathomable 
distrust for Miss V in any banking institution. He said Miss V was somewhat relieved having 
now left Nationwide for a new bank, but he said that she was also concerned about trusting 
the transfer process to a new bank account. 
Miss Vs representative said the amount of compensation being offered was insulting. And 
he said it seemed that no amount our service was empowered to offer in compensation 
would have the slightest impact on whether Nationwide would carry on as it was. He didnt 
expect Nationwide to change anything about the way it operates, and it didnt seem like it 
cared. 
Miss Vs representative said he and Miss V had lost time and money as a result of trying to 
get someone to take accountability. He said the only positive was that finally Nationwide did 
admit there may have been a failing with the direct debit when the account was frozen, 
which it had previously categorically denied. Miss Vs representative said that at least this 
was something, even if it cost him personally ten times the derisory compensation offered to 
Miss V to get it to this point.
I do understand that Miss Vs representative has strong feelings about the impact that this 
complaint has had on Miss V, and about how Nationwide should respond to that. And I dont 
question that Miss V has been greatly upset. I have, however, reached a different view on 
the extent of the mistake that Nationwide made in this case, and the quality of the service it 
provided when notified of this. Miss Vs representative said that Nationwide had repeatedly denied responsibility for the 
missed payment, even after it had written a letter accepting responsibility for this. But I dont 
think thats quite right. I think that Nationwide simply couldnt see what could have gone 
wrong. Other direct debits on Miss Vs account had been paid. 
The calls Ive listened to do show that Nationwide initially said that it wouldnt have declined 
this direct debit. But later, when given further information about the direct debit request that 
had been made, I can hear that the call handlers position changed. She said that she 
couldnt understand what had gone wrong, because direct debits are still paid when 
accounts are blocked. It does seem to me that Nationwide was then actively working on this 
issue. And I can also hear a call handler acted to reassure Miss Vs representative that any 
missed payment which wasnt Miss Vs fault would not remain on her credit file. 
I think that then Nationwide accepted that the problem was most likely to have been caused 
by this being a new direct debit. So it did accept responsibility, even though it wasnt entirely 
sure how this had happened, or even that what had gone wrong was its fault. I think that was 
an appropriate response for Nationwide to make at the time. Nationwide prioritised resolving 
this issue for Miss V, rather than conducting a forensic investigation to find out what had 
caused the problem. I dont think this was poor service.
I do understand that Miss V was very upset by what happened, and she found it distressing. 
Her representative has also told us about what a difficult time this was for Miss V, in her 
personal life, and I understand that a problem with her banking would be the very last thing 
she would want, when dealing with a family emergency. 
Miss Vs representative says he doesnt think our service has set this issue in context. I have 
taken account of the previous complaint that Miss V had raised. But when Im thinking about 
compensation, I can only fairly look at the part that Nationwide has played here, not the 
impact of the wider issues which were also distressing Miss V. And, bearing in mind all of the 
points set out above, I do still think that asking Nationwide to make a compensation payment 
of £100 is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I know that Miss Vs representative will be disappointed, but for these reasons, I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Miss V £100 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman