DRN-2310729
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Mrs M had income protection with Aviva. Mrs M took a break from her contracting work at 
the end of 2017 and had an operation on her hip in October 2018. Unfortunately, the 
operation left her with femoral nerve compression and neurapraxia, or nerve damage, 
leaving her unable to return to work. Mrs Ms recovery trajectory was extended from an 
anticipated eight weeks, to an estimated 18 months. 
Mrs M claimed on her income protection policy, but this was declined because she wasnt 
immediately working in the run up to her treatment. Instead, Aviva assessed her claim under 
House Persons benefit. 
Aviva accepted liability for the claim in April 2019 and paid House Persons benefit up to the 
end of the year, despite ceasing her claim in October. Thats to say it gave Mrs M two 
additional months worth of benefit on an ex-gratia basis. Aviva said it ceased Mrs Ms claim 
because her health had gradually improved and therefore, she no longer met the policy 
terms.
Our investigator said Aviva had brought her claim to an end fairly. He said that Aviva based 
its decision on medical evidence prior to making that decision. He acknowledged that Mrs M 
still didnt feel able to work but highlighted that the policy terms were no longer being fulfilled. 
Mrs M disagreed. She said that her health remains poor and that the assessor who 
completed the functional capacity evaluation (FCE) made an error in the report, namely that 
shes able to complete light housework and cooking. Mrs M vehemently denies she said that. 
Further, she brought new medical evidence, a letter from her GP and a report from a chronic 
fatigue syndrome (CFS) specialist to help support her claim. Mrs M later discovered shed 
been suffering with CFS throughout that period though it was unknown to the insurer at that 
time as it wasnt diagnosed until March 2020. And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are 
similar to those already given by our investigator in that Mrs M no longer satisfies the policy 
terms because her health gradually improved during the time she was receiving benefit 
under the policy. Ive also considered the new medical evidence provided by Mrs M, but Im 
not persuaded it makes any difference to the outcome of this complaint and so Aviva doesnt 
need to do anything else in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
The House Persons benefit terms say;
(C) For the purposes of HOUSEPERSONS BENEFIT
Period of Houseperson's Incapacity means a period throughout which the Insured is
normally and routinely unable, because of illness or accidental injury, to perform 2 of the
following 5 tests without the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive 
or corrective aids or appliances.
1. Walking
Able to walk 200 metres on the flat without having to stop or suffering severe discomfort
2. Bending
Able to get into or out of a standard saloon car and able to bend or kneel to pick something
from the floor and straighten up.
3. Communicating
Able to answer the telephone and take a message.
4. Reading
Having the eyesight required to be able to read a daily newspaper.
5. Writing
Having the physical ability to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or unable, by reason of
illness or accidental injury, to conduct an independent basic existence (i.e is confined to the
home or hospital or unable to cook, do light housework and dress themselves), or shown to
be suffering a psychotic or well defined mental illness which is medically incontrollable 
despite treatment by a consultant psychiatrist
Ive highlighted these terms because they are essentially the criteria Mrs M had to meet to 
evidence, she had a valid claim. Theres also a six-month deferred period which began from 
the date of Mrs Ms treatment in October 2018. At the time Mrs M was assessed in April 
2019, it was decided she met two out of the five terms listed above. However, by October, 
shed recovered to such a degree that it was no longer the case.
Having carefully considered the medical evidence gained by the functional capacity 
evaluation (FCE), Im satisfied that Mrs Ms walking tolerance had improved. I say that 
because the report says; 
Ms M reported being able to walk outdoors for up to 20 minutes before needing to rest. Ms 
M reported being able to walk uphill, to her local Tesco on the Avenue which is 
approximately 480 metres from her house.
This means that Mrs M was able to walk more than twice the distance required by the policy. 
And so, on that basis, she no longer satisfied two out of the five requirements listed by the 
policy. I also noted the assessors comments about Mrs M being able to bend to pick things 
up. Mrs M said she prefers to use the golfers technique in which to do this. The occupational 
physician said that, in his professional opinion, he believed Mrs M capable of getting out of a 
standard saloon car. And so, she no longer satisfied that element of the policy either. 
Im persuaded by his professional opinion as it was derived from a physical assessment and 
some of which was Mrs Ms own reporting. I understand she disputes some of what was 
said, but without any other medical evidence to specifically challenge this report, Im less 
persuaded by what she says here. 
Ive considered Mrs Ms GPs letter and the letter from the CFS specialist, but both pieces of 
evidence dont satisfactorily challenge the FCE assessment. And thats because theyre both 
written generically and dont answer any of the observations made by the assessor. Both letters talk more broadly about CFS and how symptoms may manifest and affect patients. 
They give useful advice about how to manage living with CFS, but thats not helpful in Mrs 
Ms case because it doesnt adequately challenge the content of the FCE report. Further, 
both suggest that Mrs M would have some functional capacity to complete household tasks, 
provided she manages them carefully, which is also consistent with the findings of the FCE 
report. 
Im highlighting this because the policy terms state that Mrs M must be normally and 
routinely be unable to perform the tasks set out under the policy. And the medical evidence 
Ive seen doesnt support that, which is why I think Aviva ceased paying her claim fairly. I 
also note Mrs Ms comments about having good and bad days in reference to her symptoms. 
I should be clear that there are perhaps two aspects to this claim, the first being the nerve 
damage she suffered as a result of a routine operation and the second being her 
undiagnosed CFS. 
Ive considered both as part of this complaint as Aviva has given its opinion on both, but for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it treated her unfairly by ending her claim for House 
Persons benefit. I would also hasten to add that good and bad days, although common with 
CFS, would indicate that Mrs M isnt normally and routinely unable to complete the actions 
listed above. Its a strict criteria set out under the policy and as time has passed, the medical 
evidence suggests that Mrs Ms health has improved to such a degree that she no longer 
meets these requirements. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman