DRN-2542251
The complaint
Miss B and Mr R complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim against their 
annual travel insurance policy. Reference to Ageas includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in any detail. In summary, on 3 March 2020, Miss B and Mr R took out an annual 
travel insurance policy with Ageas. They departed on a trip on 14 March 2020. On the 
day they arrived, the government of their destination country closed non-essential public 
places due to Covid-19. 
Miss B and Mr R say they couldnt get through to Ageas on the phone on 15 March 
2020. They arranged their own flights home for later that day. On 16 March 2020, they 
made a claim against their policy for the cost of an early return flight to the UK and taxi 
costs. Ageas declined their claim. It said that what happened here wasnt an insured 
event. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that this was a very worrying time for Miss B and Mr R and I have 
considerable sympathy for the situation in which they found themselves. But having 
considered everything thats been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
On the date Miss B and Mr R departed for their trip, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) hadnt advised against travel to their destination country. So, Miss B 
and Mr R are right to say that they werent advised against travel. 
But Miss B and Mr Rs travel policy doesnt cover everything that might go wrong on 
their trip. As the investigator explained, Miss B and Mr Rs policy provides cover for 
only certain events leading to curtailment of a trip. The events leading to the 
curtailment of Miss B and Mr Rs trip arent covered by the policy. 
In addition, theres an exclusion for claims arising from prohibitive regulations by 
the government of any country. So, cover is excluded on the grounds that Miss B 
and Mr Rs claim arose from the government of their destination country closing all 
non-essential public places.  
In any event, Miss B and Mr Rs policy covers only unused travel and 
accommodation costs. The costs Miss B and Mr R seek to recover arent unused 
travel costs but new travel costs they incurred to get home. 
Miss B and Mr R also complained that they couldnt get through to Ageas on the 
phone on 15 March 2020. The investigator asked Ageas to trace the call. Ageas says 
that it has no record of a call to its 24 hour assistance team on 15 March 2020 from 
the phone numbers Miss B and Mr R provided but it could trace a call to its claims 
department. Ageas says that its claims department is closed on a Sunday. I dont 
think its unusual for a claims department to be closed on a Sunday. So, I dont think I 
can fairly conclude that Ageas was at fault in failing to answer the call to its claims 
department, although I appreciate that Miss B and Mr R were in a very worrying 
situation. 
Miss B and Mr R have also expressed concern about how Ageas handled their 
complaint. Our service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I 
cant consider the additional points that Miss B and Mr R have raised about the 
handling of their complaint because it isnt a regulated activity. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Miss B and Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman