DRN-2148492
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way TSB Bank plc (TSB) dealt with his chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr R used his TSB debit card to buy three items from a retailer which Ill call A. The items 
were due to be delivered together to his home address. But he says he only received one of 
them. It was delivered while he was out and was left outside his house by the delivery driver. 
Mr R suspects that the other items were also left outside and may have been taken before 
he got home.
Mr R returned the single item he had received as he says it wasnt usable without the other 
items. A gave him a refund for that but didnt refund or replace the missing items. So Mr R 
contacted TSB and asked them to make a chargeback claim.
TSB temporarily refunded the cost of the two missing items to Mr Rs account. But A 
defended the chargeback claim, saying that all three items had been delivered in line with Mr 
Rs instructions. At that point, TSB re-debited Mr Rs account.
Mr R complained about this, but TSB didnt uphold the complaint as they said they hadnt 
made a mistake. Mr R wasnt happy with their response, so he brought the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt think TSB needed to do anything here. But Mr R didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its useful to start with a brief explanation of what chargeback is and how it works. Its 
a process for resolving disputes between card issuers (here, TSB) and merchants (here, A). 
It applies to payments made on a plastic card, generally a debit or credit card. Chargeback 
schemes are voluntary codes which banks can sign up to. Theyre run by the card scheme 
(that is, the business which runs the payment network)  not the bank. 
Chargeback claims are processed and decided on the basis of the card schemes rules, not 
the merits of the dispute between the customer and the merchant. So, even if Mr R has good 
grounds for a claim against A (which isnt what Im looking at here), it doesnt necessarily 
follow that his claim for a chargeback would be successful.
Customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and TSB didnt have to attempt it 
just because Mr R asked them to. In cases where the bank does attempt a chargeback, 
theres no guarantee that the money will be recovered. Each case depends on the individual 
circumstances and the decision is based on the card scheme rules. 
What I need to decide here is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in the way they dealt 
with Mr Rs chargeback request. I think they did and Ill explain why.
TSB attempted a chargeback here. After Mr R contacted them, they submitted the claim to 
the card scheme. I think that was reasonable, based on the information Mr R had provided. 
At that stage, TSB gave Mr R a temporary refund. Thats what Id expect them to do. The 
refund was only temporary at that point because, under the chargeback rules, A had the 
opportunity to respond to the claim. In some cases, the merchant accepts the claim or 
doesnt respond. In those situations, thats the end of the process and the customer keeps 
the refund. But, where the merchant defends the claim, there is usually little more that the 
customers bank can do, and the funds have to be re-debited.
Here, A defended the claim. A said that the chargeback shouldnt succeed because all three 
items had been delivered to Mr R. A provided evidence that the delivery driver had left the 
items in Mr Rs porch and that this was in line with Mr Rs instructions. On the basis of this 
evidence, I think it was reasonable for TSB not to take the claim further. 
I realise Mr R disputes the drivers evidence  he says he didnt authorise him to leave the 
items in the porch. But Im not looking here at the merits of the dispute between Mr R and A. 
Im only looking at TSBs actions in dealing with the chargeback request. I think TSB dealt 
with it fairly and in line with the chargeback rules. They attempted the chargeback, but it was 
defended. I think TSB took the claim as far as they could on the available evidence. But, as 
the chargeback didnt succeed under the card schemes rules, the refund couldnt become 
permanent.
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr R, and I sympathise with the situation he 
finds himself in. But, for the reasons above, I dont think TSB could have done any more 
here. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman