DRN-2197287
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
under his motor warranty policy. 
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his motor warranty policy as he noticed an oil leak on his vehicle. 
Acasta arranged for the vehicle to be repaired at one of its approved repairers. There was a 
delay in some of the parts being delivered and a specialist tool was required to complete the 
job. Mr A was unhappy with the delay so Acasta arranged for the vehicle to be moved to a 
specialist repairer that wasnt on its panel. Unfortunately, there were further delays here and 
Acasta arranged for the vehicle to be moved for a third time. The repair was then completed 
successfully. 
Mr A complained to Acasta, he was unhappy he was without his vehicle for the duration of 
the repair and was only provided with a courtesy car while the vehicle was with the second 
repairing garage.  Mr A said he had to make daily phone calls to all of the parties concerned 
to chase the progress of repairs. He was also inconvenienced as he had to travel to pick up 
the courtesy car.  Mr A was so dissatisfied with the service hed received he took out a new 
warranty policy with a main dealer. Mr A wanted Acasta to refund the cost of the warranty 
policy, the costs of his journey to pick up the courtesy car reimbursed and compensation for 
the stress he had been caused. 
Acasta apologised for the difficulties Mr A had encountered, it said the delays in the repair 
were largely outside its control and it did what it could to move matters forward. It pointed out 
to Mr A that he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy, but it had paid £820.33 to 
cover the cost of one for Mr A for a short period of time. It also explained it had covered 
other costs outside of Mr As policy such as recovery costs and £180 for the cost of parts 
required to complete the repair.  Because of this it said it wouldnt be covering the costs Mr A 
had claimed for or would it be refunding the policy premium to him. Acasta also said it 
wouldnt be covering the cost of the pre warranty check for the new warranty Mr A had 
chosen to take out. Mr A was unhappy with Acastas response so he brought his complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the case but initially didnt think Acasta needed to do anything 
more. He thought the amounts Acasta had covered more than made up for any payment that 
could have been awarded for the stress and inconvenience Mr A had suffered.  Mr A was 
unhappy about this, so the investigator looked at the case again. The investigator then 
established Acasta couldnt substantiate the cost of parts it said it had paid out for by way of 
an invoice. The investigator let both parties know that while his thoughts hadnt changed on 
additional compensation being awarded, he thought that as Acasta had said this was money 
Mr A had the benefit of, it would be fair for it to make that payment directly to him now.   
Acasta agreed to make the payment to Mr A. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. In doing so 
he reiterated many of the points hed made before. He also said he thought he should be 
awarded compensation in addition to the amounts Acasta had already covered.
Further developments
I wrote to both parties to outline my provisional thoughts on the matter. I said I thought £180 
was a fair amount to be paid to Mr A for the following reasons:
It isn't in dispute there were delays in the vehicle being repaired. Some of that was 
outside the business' immediate control but regardless, the repair took a lot longer 
than it should have.
The business is entitled to choose which repairer it authorises to undertake the repair 
work. While in hindsight, given the costs this claim incurred, it probably would have 
been cheaper and quicker for the work to have been completed at a main dealer, I 
can't say the business acted incorrectly by arranging for the vehicle to go in the first 
instance to an authorised repairer. 
The vehicle was moved to the second garage in an attempt to move the claim along 
more quickly and ease Mr As concerns, as there was a delay in the loom, and 
necessary tool being available to complete the repair. I understand there were 
concerns about the second garage's conduct and the vehicle was moved for a third 
time before the repair was completed successfully. I can't say the business would 
have foreseen the problems with the second garage so while I realise this caused 
further frustration, I'm satisfied the business acted to move the vehicle on again when 
they became apparent.
The business has said work was completed which wasn't covered by the policy. 
While it hasn't been able to provide evidence of the cost of this in the form of an 
invoice. I think it's more likely than not given the issue with the vehicle, that for the 
repair to have been completed successfully, parts would have been used for which 
the cost wasn't technically covered under the policy.
The policy doesn't provide for courtesy car provision and Mr A was told this from the 
outset. I can see Mr A was provided with a courtesy car when his vehicle was with 
the second garage and the cost of this was in the region of £800. I realise this was 
only provided for around a week and Mr A was without a vehicle for longer than this 
overall and, had the repair gone smoothly, this wouldn't have been necessary. But, 
this isn't something I can disregard as it wasn't something covered by the policy and 
as such, it is a benefit that was provided in an attempt to lessen Mr As 
inconvenience. I will add at this point I'm aware the process of getting the courtesy 
car also wasn't without difficulty.
Mr A has said he had to make 5/6 phone calls a day. I understand from the case why 
he was naturally anxious for his vehicle to be repaired quickly and why he 
subsequently lost faith in the business and what he was being told. But I don't think 
this amount of calls was strictly necessary or did they help the claim move forward 
more quickly.
I'm satisfied Mr A was caused inconvenience throughout the process and hes 
outlined the impact this had on him, so I do think some compensation is due. The 
business has agreed to make a payment of £180 to Mr A and I think this is a 
reasonable amount given he was also provided with a courtesy car and I believe it's 
more likely than not work was completed which technically wasn't covered by the policy. Given what happened, I think it was reasonable for the business to absorb 
those costs and not pass them on to Mr A. I understand the investigator's rationale 
behind this specific amount previously was it was an amount quoted by the business 
as being costs covered outside of the policy, so it was sufficient to cover the 
difficulties Mr A faced. That aside, the amount itself is something I feel is a fair 
payment to reflect the fact the businesses actions caused Mr A trouble and upset.
Mr A has asked for the policy premium to be returned but I won't be asking the 
business to do this as he made a successful claim under the policy, therefore the 
premium is due to the business. Mr A also said he wants an inspection fee refunded 
to him as he took out a new warranty through the main dealer. Although I understand 
Mr As reasons for doing this, I won't be asking the business to repay this amount as 
it was his decision to take out an additional warranty.
Acasta replied and said it agreed with my findings. 
Mr A said he didnt agree with my findings, he didnt think they were accurate, and he found 
them insulting. Mr A insists that each call he made was necessary to drive the claim forward 
and he had to continue to apply pressure to ensure things happened. He said Acastas 
customer service was non-existent. Mr A said that he would have expected Acasta to 
appoint repairers that were capable of completing the job, but that isnt what happened.  He 
didnt think the amount of compensation was a fair reflection of the suffering and stress he 
was caused and points out when divided by the amount of days he was without a vehicle it is 
a small amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I explained the policy doesnt provide for the costs of a courtesy 
car, so while I appreciate it was inconvenient for Mr A to be without a vehicle this isnt 
something Id look to award additional compensation for. 
I appreciate Mr A feels very strongly about what has happened and although Ive considered 
the additional comments he has made. Im not minded to change my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional findings, I remain of the opinion the costs absorbed 
by Acasta and the compensation amount now offered is a fair and reasonable outcome for 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Acasta should pay Mr A £180 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint against Acasta European Insurance Company Limited and direct it 
to pay Mr A £180 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Alison GoreOmbudsman