DRN-4176157
The complaint
Ms C complains she was given the wrong information by Link Financial Outsourcing Limited 
trading as Honours Student Loans in relation to when her student loans can be written off.  
What happened
In 1997 and 1998 Ms C took out two student loans via the Student Loans Company (SLC). 
In 2003 and 2004 Ms C took out further student loans. HSL later took over administration of 
the loans Ms C had taken out in 1997 and 1998 from SLC. The other student loans were 
transferred to another business to run.
Ms C has explained that over the years shes contacted HSL on several occasions to check 
deferment thresholds and ask about when her loans would be eligible to be written off. 
Ms Cs explained that she was told the loans would be written off 25 years after they had 
been taken out which would be 2023. 
In November 2022 Ms C called HSL to discuss her loans. During one of the calls, an HSL 
agent incorrectly advised the loans it held in Ms Cs name would be eligible to be written off 
in 2023. But it later came to light that information was wrong. Ms C went on to raise a 
complaint. 
HSL issued two final responses to Ms Cs complaint. HSL confirmed the two loans it 
administers were Mortgage Style loans with a 60 month term. HSL quoted Section 8 of the 
SLC loan agreement which said: 
The present regulations provide for (a) cancellation of repayments if you die and (b) 
cancellation of repayments (so long as you are not in breach of any obligation to us) if (i) you 
are aged under forty when you last enter an agreement to borrow from us and you attain age 
fifty or all or part of your last borrowing from us has been outstanding for at least twenty five 
years or (ii) you are aged at least forty when you last enter an agreement to borrow from us 
and you attain age sixty. 
HSL said the agent had given the wrong information about the date Ms C would qualify for a 
write off as theyd mistaken the type of loans she holds the other student loan administrator. 
In HSLs follow up final response it said Ms Cs loans would qualify for a write off 25 years 
after the last student loan she took out in 2004 and gave a date of 5 April 2029. But HSL 
explained the current maturity date for the two loans it administers is 1 April 2027 which 
would mean, unless Ms C deferred payments, her loans would be repaid before she 
qualified for a write off. HSL offered Ms C £80 for the distress and inconvenience caused or 
a payment of £110.70 applied to the loan balance, representing a one month payment 
holiday. HSL also sent Ms C copies of her original signed loan agreements and clearer 
template versions. 
Ms C referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Within its 
file submission HSL said it wanted to increase its offer to £150 to reflect a delay in sending 
Ms C call recordings she requested. The investigator thought HSLs increased offer was a 
fair way to resolve Ms Cs complaint. Ms C asked to appeal and said HSL had been unable 
to give her readable copies of her original loan agreements. Ms C also said shed made 
financial decisions based on the advice given by HSL and asked for the loans to be written 
off. As Ms C asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator Ms C explained HSL hasnt supplied legible copies of her 
signed loan agreements. I appreciate thats the case. But HSL has explained that, due to the 
passage of time, the signed copies it holds for Ms C are not as clear as it would like. To 
allow Ms C to read the actual terms set out in the loan agreements it has provided templated 
copies instead. I understand why Ms C wants to see a legible signed copy, but Im satisfied 
the templates provided are accurate and do contain the relevant terms that were included in 
the original. And the rules HSL operates under do make provision for businesses to provide 
a template, or reconstituted, copy of a loan agreement where the original is no longer legible 
or available. Im satisfied HSL has provided reasonable template versions and copies of the 
available loan agreements.
HSL has provided copies of the calls Ms C had in November 2022. I agree that some of the 
information provided was confused and ultimately incorrect. But I think that reflects the 
agents confusion over the sorts of student loans Ms C has with the other business that 
administers them. Ms C has also told us she was given similar advice before when she 
contacted HSL about whether she would qualify for a write off. I appreciate the information 
provided was not right and Ms Cs told us shes made financial decisions based on what she 
was told. Ive taken Ms Cs comments into account when deciding how to fairly resolve her 
complaint. 
Whilst I accept Ms C was given the wrong information over the phone, Im satisfied the terms 
of the student loans that are administered by HSL are clear. They confirm the balance is 
eligible to be written off 25 years from the last borrowing point with SLC. HSL has provided 
evidence it obtained from SLC that shows the last student loan Ms C obtained was in April 
2004. And 25 years from that date means Ms C will be eligible for a balance write off in April 
2029, if the HSL loans remain outstanding. But HSLs pointed out Ms Cs loans will reach 
maturity with the final repayment being due in April 2027 unless she defers repayments. Im 
satisfied HSL has confirmed the correct position, how the student loan terms impact Ms C 
and the circumstances under which she may be eligible for a write off. 
I dont doubt that the information provided by HSL last year and service provided has caused 
Ms C some inconvenience and concern. But Im satisfied HSLs offer of £150 reflects the 
level of distress and inconvenience caused to Ms C and is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve her complaint. To put it another way, £150 is very much in line with what I wouldve 
told HSL to pay had no offer been made. As Im satisfied HSL has already made an offer 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Link Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours Student Loans should pay 
Ms C £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman