DRN-2446604
The complaint
Mr B has complained against Aegon about missing payments into his Group Pension Plan
(GPP).
  
What happened
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2020. 
Im not going to repeat all I said here. But, in summary:
Mr Bs GPP was set up in May 1999. In 2001 he wanted to increase his contributions. A 
second plan was set up. Mr B returned the right to cancel notice but Aegon didnt action it. 
So there was a delay in cancelling the second plan and in refunding Mr Bs contributions 
which he then paid into the original plan. 
Comparisons by Mr B of his payslips, showing the amounts deducted in respect of his GPP 
contributions, and information provided by Aegon of the premiums paid, indicated that some 
contributions were missing. Mr B was also concerned that different allocation rates were 
applied when the money was paid back into the original plan. And, although Aegon had said 
it didnt hold any records for the second plan, Aegon had then provided, in response to his 
subject access request (SAR), some information to Mr B. 
After the adjudicator had issued her (second) view we supplied Mr B with copies of all the 
correspondence wed had with Aegon and its file. In response Mr B said the documents 
supplied  in particular Aegons summary of transactions from 1 July 1999 to 21 November 
2019 - proved that Aegon had received one of the missing payments. 
We asked Aegon to comment. Aegon said it was a new complaint which Aegon suggested 
was time barred. We replied saying that Aegon had already agreed that we could investigate 
Mr Bs complaint, which was about missing contributions to his GPP. We said that either 
party, during the course of our investigation, can put forward new arguments and evidence in 
support of their position. And, where weve provided previously unseen evidence to a party, 
wed expect that party to consider it and raise any pertinent issues or further points. 
Aegon didnt agree and the complaint was referred to me. I agreed that Mr B wasnt making 
a new complaint. His central complaint was that there were missing contributions to his GPP. 
It was open to him to raise further arguments in support of his complaint as our investigation 
progressed. Theres a distinction between making new or further points in support of an 
existing complaint and raising an entirely new complaint. I didnt think Mr B was making a 
new complaint. I went to consider each aspect of Mr Bs complaint in turn. Ive repeated the 
headings I used and my provisional findings. 
Mr Bs initial contributions to the GPP
Mr Bs four initial contributions were supposed to be £85 each gross. But, instead of
deducting the net amounts of £65.45 from his salary, deductions of £85 were made. But
Aegon didnt credit the GPP with the higher gross amounts of £110.39 (ie the net amount of
£85 plus tax relief). Aegon only credited Mr Bs GPP with four (gross) payments of £85. That
means hes lost a total of £101.56.
It seems to me that either Aegon or Mr Bs employer must have made a mistake. The
employer may have paid over to Aegon four amounts of £85, in which case Aegon should
have queried it or credited the GPP with the higher amounts to include tax relief. Or the
employer made a mistake by deducting £85 from Mr Bs salary and then only paying lower
amounts (£65.45) to Aegon.
The GPP was set up in 1999. Investigating the discrepancy between the amounts shown on
Mr Bs payslips as having been deducted by his employer and the sums credited to the GPP
by Aegon means were looking at something that happened over twenty years ago. Mr B did
approach his former employer but unsurprisingly it hasnt retained records going back that
far and so it cant assist.
If Mr B had noted and queried the discrepancy at the time I think it should have been
relatively easy to find out what had happened and whether Aegon had received the higher
amounts and, if it had, made sure (if the difference wasnt returned to the employer) that the
correct tax relief was applied and the higher amounts credited to the GPP. And, if Aegon had
said it had only received the lower amounts (£65.45), Mr B could have asked his employer to
refund to him the difference between the amounts deducted from his salary and the amounts
actually paid over to Aegon.
As things stand, I dont think it would be fair to say that Aegon made a mistake and that it
received the higher amounts and so should have credited Mr Bs GPP accordingly. I tend to
think, on balance, that the error was more perhaps more likely to lie with Mr Bs employer. I
dont immediately see that Aegons systems would allow it to credit the GPP with less than it
had actually received. I think that sort of discrepancy would have come to light at some
stage. Large companies such as Aegon would undertake regular audits so I think any error
was likely to have been detected. On balance, Im unable to agree that Aegon made a
mistake here and I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
Aegons failure to cancel the second plan
I think its clear that Aegon did make an error here. Whether or not the second plan was set
up in error  and I deal with that below  it wasnt cancelled promptly. Mr B returned the
right to cancel notice hed received from Aegon dated 17 September 2001 on 13 October
2001. He later, on 18 February 2002, telephoned Aegon and discovered the cancellation
form hadnt been actioned and the second plan remained in place with part of Mr Bs
contributions being paid into it. It seems it was only following Mr Bs telephone call that the
cancellation was implemented.
I further note that Mr B signed the application form to increase his contributions on 24 May
2001 and the first payment was made on 19 July 2001. But the right to change your mind
letter wasnt issued until 17 September 2001.
There was delay on Aegons part. Im upholding this aspect of the complaint. I accept Mr B
suffered some distress and inconvenience, but I think the £100 suggested by the adjudicator
for this is fair and reasonable. I cant see that Mr B suffered a great deal of trouble and upset
or had to spend a great deal of time simply to get the plan cancelled. He had to make a
telephone call to Aegon to get his cancellation instruction implemented but that was about it.
Other complications did arise from the cancellation but Ive considered those separately.
Aegon incorrectly paid contributions into the second plan
Aegon has suggested the second wasnt set up in error but was required as the fixedincreased contribution (of £32 pm) wasnt compatible with the original plan which provided
for Mr Bs contributions to increase as his salary did.
That seems to be confirmed by the letter dated 23 October 2001 from Aegon to Mr Bs
employers advisers. It said that recent increments had been completed both as a
percentage of salary or a fixed monetary amount. And that to accommodate that an
additional policy had to be established. Id also note that when the second plan had been
cancelled Mr Bs increased contributions were expressed as a percentage of his salary
which is consistent with the way in which the original plan was set up.
From what Ive seen there may have been reasons why as new plan had to be set up. I dont
uphold this part of the complaint.
Aegon received a pension contribution of £129.47 in March 2002 but only refunded £64
I understand that in 2018 Mr B got a spreadsheet from Aegon showing all the pension
contributions paid into the original plan. Mr B then compared that with his payslips and found
that a pension contribution of £129.47 shown on a payslip dated 25 February 2002 had
never been paid into his pension plan. I can understand why the adjudicator said that wasnt
sufficient to say that a contribution might be missing. As she pointed out, and as Ive agreed
above about the initial contributions, it was the employers responsibility to pay over to 
Aegon the contributions deducted from Mr Bs salary. I couldnt rule out a mistake having
been made by the employer and so, on balance, I didnt think there was enough to say that
Aegon had received the higher amounts.
The same is true, to some extent at least, about whether a Mr B did make a contribution of
£129.47, only £64 of which was refunded and the balance not applied to his plan. And what
Ive said about discrepancies coming to light following audits. But I think the situation is
somewhat different where there is some documentary evidence from Aegon itself that the
contribution was received: the 2002 statements record an employee contribution of £236.53
whereas the later documents show that as £139.06, some £97.46 less. So there is
something which suggests that Aegon may have received the higher amount. I bear in mind
what Aegon has said about differences sometimes resulting from the employer uploading
incorrect premiums which it later asked Aegon to correct. Given the time thats elapsed its
not possible to find out if that might have happened here.
I have to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities and based on such evidence as
there is. Mr B has pointed to a contemporaneous statement which shows Aegon received an
employee contribution of £236.53. So my starting point is that a payment in that amount
received.
Mr B has put forward a detailed explanation as to what may have happened which, as Ive
said, weve shared with Aegon so Im not going to go through it all here. But I think what hes
said is plausible, especially coupled with the fact that how the refund of £64 was calculated
hasnt been explained. I agree with Mr B that the original explanation, that it related to
contributions hed made in January and February 2002, doesnt appear right in that those
payments would have been included in the original refund Mr B received. So the refund must
relate to something that happened after that.
A deduction of £129.47 was made from Mr Bs salary on 25 February 2002 which was about
the same time as hed told Aegon the second plan should have been cancelled and before
hed agreed with the employers advisers in March 2002 that, going forwards, hed be paying
a fixed percentage (4.28%) of his salary. The deduction from his 25 February 2002 payslip
was made up of his contribution of £97.47 plus the increment of £32 so £129.47 in total.That would have meant that Mr B should have received a further refund in respect of the
second plan of £32  as that plan had been shut and so the contribution of £32 gross
couldnt be paid into it - with the balance of £97.47 credited to his original plan. Instead £64
was refunded. If, in total, Mr B had paid £129.47 and none of which was credited to his
original plan he should have received a refund of the whole amount which means that
£65.47 is still owed to him.
I further note that the policy schedule issued on 19 August 2002 (with an effective date of 25
July 2002) records Mr Bs increased contributions  4.28% of his earnings which was agreed
after the fixed increase of £32 pm hadnt worked out. The schedule records special
premiums of £512.12 and £64. I dont know why the former isnt £448.12. The schedule
indicates that a further £64 (£512.12 - £448.12) should have been applied as a special
premium. Thats a further discrepancy which might indicate that not all of Mr Bs
contributions have been applied.
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding this aspect of the complaint. I think theres evidence
to suggest that Aegon did received a payment of £129.47 only part of which (£64) was
refunded and the balance of which wasnt credited to his GPP. To put matters right Aegon
needs to adjust Mr Bs account to reflect an additional payment of £65.47 having been
received in March 2002.
I dont agree with Mr Bs calculations or that hes entitled to 8% pa compound interest. First,
we award simple, not compound, interest. And, in any event, where the subject of complaint
is an investment, including a pension, wed generally make an award for any investment loss
instead of interest. Where the investment is still held and the complaint is, as here, against
the provider, wed ask the provider to recalculate the account to make good any investment
loss. Aegon needs to adjust Mr Bs GPP to reflect the additional contribution.
I think Mr B should also get a further payment for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate
hes spent a lot of time reconciling his payslips and other records with the information Aegon
has provided and all of that goes back many years. But I think some time could have been
avoided if any discrepancies had been noted earlier and queried then with Aegon. Mr B may
say he wasnt able to do that until he got information from Aegon but I assume he could have
checked things earlier. And I dont see hes had years of worry about whether his pension is
correct  its only latterly, since 2018, that hes thought his pension might be wrong.
All in all I think a further payment of £150 in respect of this aspect of the matter is fair and
reasonable. Mr B may feel that, and our awards generally, are too low, but I think its in line
with the sort of award wed make in a case such as this for trouble and upset.
Aegon charged Mr B extra to pay the contributions back into the original plan
When Mr B increased his contributions by £32 (fixed, gross pm) these were paid into the
new plan. Mr B then had to repay the refunded contributions into the original plan as special,
not regular contributions. Ive explained why Im not going to say that Aegon made an error
in setting up the new plan. It follows that I dont think Mr B can argue that hed have been
charged less if his payments had been treated as regular, not special, contributions.
Mr B says he was charged 1.39% in respect of the special contribution of £448.12 and
6.90% for the special contribution of £64. Thats consistent with the illustrations (attached to
the right to change your mind notices) that Mr B received. I can understand his concern
about that apparent discrepancy in respect of special contributions made only a few months
apart. And why he thinks Aegon should explain the reason for the difference. Mr B has
worked out that the charges reduced his contribution of £448.12 to £441.89. And the £64
contribution to £59.59.Thats consistent with what Aegon has said. It says the £448.21 had an allocation rate of
103.8%. However, the plan also has a 5% bid/offer spread which changes the investment
from £448.12 to £441.89, which matches Mr Bs figure. And the £64 was allocated with an
allocation rate of 98%. This also had a 5% bid/offer spread which reduced it to £59.59 which
again is consistent with Mr Bs figure.
From what Ive seen, the policy terms and conditions provided for a 95% allocation rate or
such different rate as may be set out on the schedule, which may set out different allocation
rates for different payments. Condition 5 deals with investment and sets out the bid/offer
spread provisions. The schedule issued on 19 August 2002 sets out an allocation rate of
98% for the two special contributions (£512.12 and £64). If the actual allocation rates
matched that then I dont see that Aegon has done anything wrong. So, based on what Ive
seen so far, I dont uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Aegon provided incorrect information to the employers advisers in 2002 when Mr B asked
for an explanation as to how the refund of £64 had been calculated
I think Ive largely covered this above. I agree the explanation Aegon gave about the refund
of £64 didnt make much sense. And Aegon later said something different. But I havent seen
any evidence that what Aegon said in 2002 was challenged at the time. I dont think this is
really a separate matter or one which should attract a further payment for distress and
inconvenience. So Im not upholding this aspect of the matter.
Aegon failed to send a statement in 2002 to show what payments had been received for the
second plan
  
If Mr B asked for information in 2002 that wasnt forthcoming then Id expect him to have
followed it up then. If he didnt then I dont think it would be fair to say, some eighteen years
later, that Aegon should have done more to explain what had happened. I note what Mr B
says about not being in a position without that information to challenge or query whether all
the payments hes made as shown on his payslips have been credited to the GPP. But,
given that Aegon has agreed we can investigate Mr Bs complaint notwithstanding the time
thats elapsed, I dont see that Mr B has suffered any detriment. Im not upholding this part of
the complaint.
So I upheld the complaint in part. I agreed that Aegon had failed to cancel the second plan 
promptly. And I thought, from what Mr B had said, that there was some evidence that Aegon 
had received a contribution which it didnt refund in full and the balance of which it failed to 
apply to Mr Bs plan. I said Aegon needed to correct that and pay Mr B, in total, £250 for the 
trouble and upset hed suffered.
In response Aegon said it had reviewed my provisional decision and while it didnt consider it 
was the correct outcome it wasnt in a position to provide details of what had happened in 
2001 and 2002. But it had managed to obtain some information from its files which it 
attached and which it said might assist in understanding the problems it had to deal with at 
the time. 
We shared Aegons response and the documents it had provided with Mr B. In summary, he 
said: 
His understanding, from the documents Aegon had provided, was that in 2001 and 
2002 Aegon lost track of the pension contributions it received from his employers 
GPP. It appears that Aegon was aware that his pension contributions had been paid into 
the wrong plan but did nothing about it. 
The documents didnt explain why his monthly employee pension contribution of 
£97.47, which was paid into his plan on 19 April 2002, was then removed sometime 
after the statement dated 18 August 2002 was issued. 
Part of his complaint was that he believed Aegon was still withholding copies of 
documents for the second plan which had been cancelled and that such documents 
hadnt been destroyed as claimed. The adjudicator had said she accepted that 
Aegon didnt have any further documents. Shed referred to the repercussions of 
destroying documents or withholding information. But Aegon hadnt previously 
supplied the documents that wed now forwarded to him. 
He supplied a fact sheet produced by the Pensions Ombudsman about redress for non 
financial injustice  inconvenience or time and trouble. That included having to go through a 
complaints process where the maladministration was both avoidable and identifiable at an 
earlier stage. He considered thered been avoidable delays in dealing with his complaint. He 
set out a time line. Hed sent us full details of his complaints against Aegon on 14 January 
2019. Since then, by his reckoning, thered been delays totalling 689 days. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision what Mr B had said about why he considered his plan 
hadnt been credited with the full amount of payments Aegon had received and why I thought 
Mr Bs policy should be adjusted to reflect an additional sum of £65.47 having been received 
in March 2002. 
Aegon hasnt set out why what Ive said must be wrong or provided further evidence to show 
that. And the further information Aegon has produced shows there were problems with the 
GPP, including discrepancies between the schedules or breakdowns of payments sent to 
Aegon and the money received. Premiums were applied incorrectly and refunds in the wrong 
amounts were made. I think there was some confusion and ongoing problems. Against that 
background its possible that a mistake was made with Mr Bs contributions.
I note Mr Bs concern that further, previously unseen, documents, have now been produced. 
I can understand that wont have increased his confidence in Aegon and how it has handled 
his complaint. But I dont think it means that Aegon must have deliberately withheld 
documents or that what it said about the records for the second policy having been 
destroyed wasnt genuine. I think its more likely a reflection of the fact that its records date 
back some twenty years. Thats likely to mean that not all the documents are readily 
accessible and stored in the same location and which may have changed over the years. 
Given the time thats elapsed a further search may reveal previously unseen documents. 
Mr B considers that the payment (£250 in total) for the trouble and upset hes suffered isnt 
sufficient. Hes pointed to what the Pensions Ombudsman might award. But the Pensions 
Ombudsman is a separate service to us. Our awards arent directly comparable. 
Id refer Mr B instead to what we say on our website about awards for non financial loss. For 
moderate trouble and upset wed award less than £500. I know Mr B considers that hes 
suffered more than moderate distress and inconvenience. But I explained in my provisional 
decision why I thought some of the time hed spent could have been avoided. And why I 
didnt agree that hed have been worried for many years that his pension might not be 
correct. Mr B considers that theres been avoidable delays in dealing with his complaint. But the 
delays hes pointed to relate to the time weve taken to progress his complaint.  Im sorry if 
Mr B thinks weve taken longer to deal with his complaint than we should have done. But that 
isnt something that Aegon is responsible for. 
All in all my views remain as set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. I agree that Aegon failed to cancel the second plan
promptly. And I think theres evidence that Aegon received a contribution which it didnt 
refund in full and the balance of which it failed to apply to Mr Bs plan. Aegon needs to 
correct that and pay Mr B, in total, £250 for the trouble and upset hes suffered.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman