DRN-2745490
The complaint
Mr H complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked a transaction on his 
account, he had authorised.
What happened
Mr H says he attempted to make a payment using his Nationwide debit card and this was 
declined on two occasions for security reasons, even though he had provided authorisation 
to make the payment after the initial  payment was declined. Mr H says Nationwides 
systems need changing to avoid the inconvenience it caused him to get the payment 
authorised and as a result they should pay him compensation to cover this. 
Nationwide says their automated systems are set up to protect customers from fraud and 
while they accept Mr H experienced some inconvenience, they have done nothing wrong.
 
Mr H was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
She felt while Mr H had experienced some inconvenience when the payment was blocked, 
this was part of Nationwides internal security systems and she couldnt ask them to change 
this. The investigator didnt feel compensation was warranted as Mr H chose himself to visit 
the branch of Nationwide to make the payment.
 
Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would have been frustrating for Mr H, for the payment he wished to make to be 
blocked on two occasions, even though he had authorised the payment after it was initially 
refused. 
What happened here is Mr H had a transaction refused for a payment to a merchant in the 
USA. This was as a result of Nationwides security systems identifying the transaction as a 
potential fraud. I can see Mr H then confirmed the authenticity of the payment with 
Nationwide and attempted to make the payment a second time. While Mr H may not agree, 
from the information I have seen, the second payment attempt to the merchant wasnt 
blocked for a potential fraud like the first attempt, but due to an input error by the merchant in 
the USA. From the information both parties have provided me with, the third attempt to make 
the payment was blocked by Nationwide and they telephoned Mr H to verify the authenticity 
again and unblocked the payment asking him to make it again. At this point, Mr H took the 
decision to visit his Nationwide branch to make the payment while on the telephone to both 
Nationwide and the merchant in the USA, and on this occasion the payment was completed.
 
I understand Mr H feels Nationwides systems have caused him inconvenience and he had 
already given his authority to make the payment. While I understand this point, its important 
to say that systems like Nationwides are there to prevent potential frauds taking place and 
its not my role to tell them how these systems must operate. Its also worth mentioning that 
each transaction on Mr Hs account will be considered individually for the purposes of fraud, 
so while Mr H may not agree, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwides system to 
have picked this up on the occasions it did, to ensure the payment was genuine. 
While Mr H has experienced some inconvenience here the second attempt to make the 
payment was due to merchant input error in any event and I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for that or the fact he chose to visit his branch to complete the transaction. On 
listening to the telephone call, I am satisfied Nationwides member of staff tried to explain 
how their system operated and was helpful in getting the payment made.
 
On balance, I am satisfied the protection Nationwides systems afford Mr H outweigh the 
inconvenience this has caused him here and I dont think compensation is warranted as a 
result.
 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking any more of Nationwide 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman