DRN-2799804
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Saffron Building Society discriminated against her based on her 
postcode, and then failed to properly address her complaint about that issue.
What happened
In 2020 the Saffron Building Society (Saffron) offered an account which was only available 
to people who lived in certain postcode areas, being areas close to where its branches are 
based. Mrs R did not live in a qualifying area, and so she complained. Saffron did not uphold 
her complaint at the time, and stood by its policy of focusing on people who live locally. 
However, Saffron also told Mrs R that this policy was under review, and that it would contact 
her again once the review was completed. Mrs R says Saffron never contacted her about the 
review. She complains about that too.
Mrs R says that her original complaint should have been upheld, because the outcome of 
the review was that Saffron withdrew the account and offered a new account which was 
open to everyone. She argues that this is a vindication of her original complaint. She also 
said that Saffron had misrepresented what her complaint was about in its final response 
letter, and had thereby avoided answering the points she had raised. She referred all of 
these matters to our Service, represented by her husband, Mr R.
(Mrs Rs complaint was originally dealt with as two complaints  her original complaint, and 
her complaint about how Saffron handled her first complaint  but our investigator later 
combined them and treated them as one complaint.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Mrs R had not been treated 
unfairly, because her application to open an account had been rejected in line with Saffrons 
eligibility criteria at the time. The investigator said it was not within her remit to comment on 
those criteria or the policy on which they were based, as that was a matter for the regulator. 
She reviewed some emails between Mrs R and Saffron, and concluded that Saffron had 
adequately addressed each of Mrs Rs points.
Mr R did not accept that opinion. He maintained that the two complaints should have been 
dealt with independently. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
There was never any reason to treat this matter as two separate complaints. All of the 
matters raised arise out of the same original issue, and can fairly be dealt with together. 
Also, our Service does not have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about how another 
complaint was handled, so if I did treat this complaint as two complaints, then I would have 
no power to consider the second one. I can, however, consider the adequacy of Saffrons 
response to Mrs Rs original complaint in the context of considering the original complaint.
Subject to the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 (which are not engaged by the matters 
raised in this complaint), it is not my role to tell a building society what criteria it should apply 
to an application to open an account, whether by an existing or prospective member. In 
general, a business can choose who it wants to open an account for. So I wont comment on 
the postcode criterion.
Mrs R was not eligible for the account when she applied for it. Saffron was therefore entitled 
to reject her complaint about not being allowed to open the account. The fact that Saffron 
later changed its policy and broadened its criteria so that Mrs G became eligible, does not 
mean that it was wrong to reject Mrs Rs complaint. Her application was rejected according 
to the policy which was in force at the time. Saffrons new policy does not have to be applied 
retrospectively, and just because Saffron changed its policy does not mean that it was 
obliged to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about the old policy.
Mrs R has complained that Saffron treated her concerns as a formal complaint, when all she 
had wanted (at first) was to enter into a dialogue. She says Saffrons approach was at odds 
with the FCAs rules, but actually it was required by the rules. The FCAs rules say that an 
expression of dissatisfaction about a financial service is a complaint, and a complaint must 
be treated as a complaint. Saffron was therefore obliged to treat Mrs Rs email as a 
complaint, because she had made her dissatisfaction clear.
I dont agree that Saffron misdescribed what Mrs Rs complaint was about. Its final response 
letter was on point and adequately addressed the issues she had raised.
I note that in the final response, issued in late November, Saffron told Mrs R that it would 
shortly be in touch about the outcome of its review of its eligibility criteria. Although Saffron 
says it kept that promise, I have seen no evidence that it did, and so I accept Mrs Rs 
statement that she received no such correspondence. That is unfortunate, but I think the 
problem is mitigated by the fact that Mrs R discovered Saffrons new account (which was not 
limited by postcode area) by herself while browsing Saffrons website on 2 December. 
Consequently I dont think that complaint issue is serious enough to merit financial 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman