DRN-2353790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly closed 
their bank account without notice being given. This caused them inconvenience and distress.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr and Mrs B visited a Halifax branch to withdraw £10,000 from their account. There 
were issues with the PIN and a staff member went to provide assistance. While I 
appreciated that Mr and Mrs B would have been frustrated when they experienced 
issues withdrawing money I said there was no excuse for threatening or abusive 
behaviour or language.
I couldnt say what was said or happened as I wasnt present at the incident. I found 
it really disappointing that Halifax hadnt been able to provide the CCTV as Id have 
expected it to have kept the recording given the circumstances. Therefore, I relied on 
the other evidence available.
I noted what Mr and Mrs B said happened, but I couldnt ignore the fact the police 
were called  which I found was quite an unusual step for a bank to take. I accepted 
that the police would only be called to a branch if the staff member believed there 
was a need and so I found it more likely than not that Mr Bs behaviour wasnt 
acceptable and was such that the staff member felt intimidated and threatened. I also 
noted the staff members testimony regarding this was supported by other staff 
members present.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs account stated that if Halifax decided to 
close the account at least two months notice would be given. However, the terms 
then said that this notice would not be provided if the customer acted in an abusive, 
threatening or violent way. The decision was made to close the account and 
Halifaxs notes stated this was due to the concerns raised about the visit in question 
including reports from colleagues also present and a history of other concerns. 
Based on this I didnt find that Halifax did anything wrong by taking action to 
immediately close the account.
Based on the reasons above, I didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision. He reiterated his concerns about the CCTV not 
being provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory - as it is in this case 
specifically regarding the testimonies of what happened at the branch - I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Based on this, and 
as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this complaint.
I appreciate the comments that Mr B has made about the CCTV footage not being made 
available and as I set out in my provisional decision I think this should have been retained for 
consideration. However, I find that I have received enough evidence to make a decision in 
this case and based on the reports provided and the actions taken by the bank staff at the 
time, specifically calling the police, I accept that the staff member felt threatened and 
intimidated.
As the terms and conditions of the account covered the actions that can be taken in these 
circumstances I do not find that Halifax did anything wrong in this case by taking action to 
immediately close the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman