DRN-2831515
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been agreed that AXA should accept responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive
referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
 Mr H took out a store card in 1999 in a store. At the same time he took out PPI. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. As AXA disagreed the 
matter has come to me to decide. 
The policy covered risks in addition to PPI, but my decision only deals with the PPI aspect of 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint because I dont think that AXA gave him clear 
enough information about the terms of the policy.
Because of the time that has passed Im not certain if I have a copy of the actual policy 
terms that applied to Mr Hs card. So Ive based my decision on the policy terms of the
same insurers that were in use for store cards just before the insurance was sold to Mr H. I 
think its reasonable to assume that the terms applicable to Mr Hs insurance are likely to 
have been similar.
AXA didnt advise Mr H to take out the PPI. But it still had to give him clear, fair and not mis-
leading information about it, so that he could make an informed decision whether he wanted 
it or not. Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs signed store card application form. This has some 
sections in it which had to be completed by the applicant. It also has several sections of 
closely printed instructions and information relating to the card. When signed by both AXA 
and the applicant the application formed the credit card agreement. 
There is one section on the form which gives a brief description of what the insurance 
covers. It also says that more information about, amongst other matters, the eligibility rules 
that relate to the cover, is given with the customer copy of the agreement. There is nothing 
on the form that draws the applicants attention either to this statement or to the eligibility 
rules for the policy. I think this would have mattered to Mr H because he says that he was 
unemployed at the time he took out the PPI. I can see that the employment details section of 
the application was left blank. And from what I know about the surrounding circumstances I 
find nothing to contradict what Mr H said about not working at the time of the sale. I find that 
it was likely that this made him ineligible for it. So had he been given clearer information 
about this Im satisfied that he wouldnt have taken out the PPI which he could never have 
used So, I think Mr H has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Mr H into the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out
the PPI. This means:
A. AXA should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges 
that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
B. If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
C. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund.
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. If  when AXA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple
interest on the extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Mr H would have owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate
should be 8% a year
E. AXA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is to uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I order
AXA France IARD to pay Mr H compensation in accordance with the calculation that Ive
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman