DRN-2632672
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was given inaccurate information by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The call Mr T received from HSBC on the day of the transaction was from its fraud 
detection team. The bank says this was in response to the payment in question 
flagging on its system and it contacted Mr T as part of its usual process. This process 
is designed to protect Mr Ts account and ensure the transaction isnt fraudulent. Its 
likely the transaction flagged because it was unusual. 
Ive listened to the call and I can see that the purpose of it was to verify whether Mr T 
had authorised the payment in question. Mr T confirmed the payment was genuine, 
so HSBC was authorised to release it.
During the call, Mr T did request that the funds be held until the next day. Although 
the call handler agreed to do so, I dont think HSBC did something wrong by 
releasing the funds anyway. I say this because Mr T confirmed he was in receipt of 
the car he had purchased. I appreciate that he had concerns with the quality of the 
car, but it isnt HSBCs role to withhold the payment Mr T had made because of this. 
HSBCs role was to ensure Mr T had authorised the payment  which he said he did. 
And the bank transfer Mr T carried out to pay for the car wasnt the subject of a 
scam. So its not the banks role here to get involved in Mr Ts dispute about the 
quality of the car.
HSBC agrees it made an error when it confirmed that the payment would be held 
until Mr T agreed to release it. The bank paid him £50 compensation because of this 
and I think this is fair. I empathise with the situation Mr T found himself in and I 
appreciate that hes had to pay costs to repair defects with the car. But I cant fairly 
conclude that the cause of these additional costs comes down to what HSBC did 
wrong. So I wont be asking the bank to pay anything more.
I acknowledge Mr Ts concerns that HSBC could give him the wrong information in 
the future. But my role is only to examine whats happened in the circumstances of 
this complaint and whether or not the bank has acted fairly. I cant comment on 
something that may or may not happen in future.
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman