DRN-4230133
The complaint
Miss M complains Transunion International UK Limited are incorrectly reporting a County
Court Judgement (CCJ) on her credit file.
What happened
Miss M says in January 2022, it came to light that a CCJ had been registered against her
incorrectly and it was appearing on her credit file. Miss M says the CCJ isnt hers - although
the first name on the CCJ is her name, the first two letters of the surname are missing. So,
Miss M contacted all three Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) to ask them to remove it.
Miss M says two of the CRAs have removed it, but Transunion havent.
Miss M says having a CCJ incorrectly recorded on her credit file is impacting her ability to
apply for credit and this issue has impacted her wellbeing. Miss M wants Transunion to
remove the CCJ from her credit file and to compensate her for the distress caused.
Transunion say theyve relied on the right evidence to say the CCJ is being recorded
correctly against Miss M. Transunion recognised the surname on the CCJ was slightly
different to Miss Ms in that it didnt have the first two letters. But they said there was no
evidence to suggest this was nothing more than a typing error made by the court that
recorded the information. Transunion noted too that the address provided for the CCJ was
the same as Miss Ms address. As such, Transunion said they werent able to remove the
CCJ from Miss Ms credit file.
Miss M referred the matter to this service, and one of our Investigators considered what had
happened. In summary, she said while there was a small difference in the surname being
reported in the CCJ, other details such as the address, were the same as Miss Ms. Our
Investigator also said Transunion were relying on information that was being reported by the
courts about the CCJ and so she didnt think Transunion had acted unfairly.
Miss M disagreed. In summary, she said the address on the CCJ was an old address and
that she hadnt lived there in a while. Miss M said there were a number of occupants at the
address and that she believes some of her details are being used for fraudulent purposes 
Miss M provided us with pictures of the address part on correspondence that were sent to
the address she used to live at and the same one thats registered on the CCJ. The pictures
show the letters were addressed using Miss Ms first name but the incorrect surname as the
first two letters of the surname are missing  this is the same format as the name provided
on the CCJ.
Miss M says she also contacted the courts and because she wasnt the named defendant on
the claim form, she said they were unable to provide her with the details of the CCJ. So,
Miss M feels this is an error, as the CCJ doesnt have her correct surname. Because of this,
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter, setting out the below:
Transunion have explained they receive information about CCJs from R, which operates the
Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines for England and Wales. Transunion source data
from third partys such as County Courts - the data isnt theirs to alter or remove without
authority from the data owner. However, due to their company policy, Transunion didnt raise
a dispute with R as they said R havent previously been able to assist. Given its the courts
who decide CCJs, I dont find Transunion have acted unfairly in not raising a dispute on
behalf of Miss M.
Having looked at a copy of the CCJ, I can see the title and first name is the same as Miss
Ms. However, the surname is missing the first two letters. The address is also one that Miss
M said she lived at and more recently, Transunion have provided further detail showing the
date of birth on the CCJ is the same as Miss Ms. So, overall, the details on the CCJ match
those of Miss Ms, except for the surname. Having thought about all of this, I dont find
Transunions conclusion of the discrepancy in the surname being an administrative error by
the court, to be unreasonable.
I appreciate Miss M believes her details are being used fraudulently. And shes provided us
with pictures of the address on letters that were also in the same name as the one on the
CCJ. Ive carefully considered this evidence; however, it doesnt persuade me that what
Transunion are reporting in terms of the CCJ is incorrect. And I havent seen anything to
suggest there was anyone else, whose details match those recorded on the CCJ, living at
the same address Miss M lived at.
Miss M has said two other CRAs have removed the CCJ, but Transunion havent. I
understand Miss Ms concern, but I can only look at whether Transunion have done anything
wrong in the circumstances of this case. And Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me
they have.
For these reasons, I dont currently think Transunion have acted unfairly in reporting the CCJ
against Miss M.
I note Miss M told us the next step shell take is to disassociate herself from the CCJ by
filling out a form with Transunion. While I appreciate my decision will likely come as a
disappointment to Miss M, this may be something she wants to explore with Transunion.
Responses to my provisional decision
Transunion responded but didnt have anything further for me to consider.
Miss M responded and in summary, made reference to parts of what was said in the 
background section of my decision. Miss M also said Transunions suggestion that there was 
an administration error made by the courts was without merit and disproved. Miss M said 
there was no evidence to suggest Transunion have acted fairly and she was also able to 
provide us with a copy of the court judgement confirming the details of the CCJ  including 
the name of the company who applied for the CCJ and the period of the CCJ, which showed 
as for charges arising in relation to the supply of electricity between August 2020 and 
September 2021. 
Miss M clarified the CCJ has had an impact on her wellbeing because of the adverse 
information on her credit file which she says was caused by Transunions unlawful action. 
Miss M reiterated she wanted Transunion to stop reporting the CCJ against her credit file.
I asked Miss M for evidence of where she was living during the period the CCJ was for and 
also asked for details about whether she was responsible for paying for the electricity at the 
address on the CCJ during this period.Miss M said she lived at the property until June 2020 and confirmed she wasnt paying the 
electricity at the time. Miss M also questioned why she would need to provide further 
evidence and initially said she didnt see the relevance of my questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has made some points in relation to several paragraphs of the background of my 
decision. The background is what has happened in Miss Ms complaint about Transunion 
and not what I think about the complaint. My thoughts are detailed in the findings section of 
my decision. Im also sorry to read of the impact this issue is having on Miss M and her 
health.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss M has questioned what I meant when I said 
Transunion say they relied on the "right evidence". She's also provided us with a copy of the 
court document setting out details of the CCJ. This evidence includes the same details as 
the information provided to our service and relied upon by Transunion (in addition to the 
confirmation from R that the CCJ was recorded for Miss M), just in a different format. So, 
what I meant by "right evidence" was a copy of the CCJ details and the confirmation from R. 
I'm sorry for any confusion caused.
Miss M initially questioned why I would need evidence of where she was living at the time 
and reiterated that she wasnt living at the address at the time. The reason I asked for this 
was to understand whether Miss M was living at the address at the time and whether she 
had evidence she could show to the courts. Despite not seeing evidence of this, when Miss 
M completed her complaint form, she gave us the address that was on the CCJ, as the 
address for us to write to. This seems inconsistent with what Miss M has said that she no 
longer lived there.
Miss M previously said there has been fraud committed against her by another party. That 
may be the case, but Im not here to determine whether theres been fraud committed 
against Miss M or not. My role is to determine whether Transunion have acted fairly in 
reporting the CCJ against Miss M with the details they have. And essentially, Transunion 
have relied on information provided to them from R and used those details to report the CCJ 
against Miss M.
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me Transunion ought to be reporting the CCJ 
against someone else, instead of Miss M. As previously explained, theres no evidence to 
suggest there was anyone else, whose details match those recorded on the CCJ, living at 
the same address Miss M lived at. I can see the document provided by Miss M includes the 
name of the company who applied to the courts for the CCJ. So, I think Miss M should raise 
a dispute directly with this company about the CCJ, if she wants to continue to dispute the 
matter.
I understand Miss M raised a point about what investigation Transunion carried out before 
suggesting the issue with the surname was nothing more than a typing error by the courts. 
However, Transunion havent said that this was definitely the case, and this isnt something 
Ive decided has definitely happened. Instead, they said there was no evidence to suggest 
this was nothing more than a typing error, based on the information available to them. On 
balance, I dont think this conclusion was unreasonable given most of the details on the CCJ 
match those of Miss Ms  its just the first two letters that are missing from the surname. Additionally, Miss M hasnt given me anything to persuade me that Transunion have acted 
unfairly in the reporting of the CCJ. 
Miss M has also made reference to our service as the body who regulate Transunion. To 
clarify, were not the regulator  our role is to resolve financial matter disputes. Instead, its 
the Financial Conduct Authority who regulate businesses like Transunion. Miss M previously 
mentioned adding a disassociation notice to her credit file. Having looked at Transunions 
website, this seems more suitable for when a customer wants to remove a financial 
associate from their file as they no longer have any joint financial arrangements with a third 
party.  
Overall, Im persuaded Transunion have reported the CCJ against Miss Ms name because 
they are satisfied that it is more likely than not that the CCJ relates to her, rather than to 
anyone else. And I remain of the opinion that I dont think Transunion have acted unfairly in 
reporting the CCJ against Miss M based on the information they have.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman