DRN-2976251
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) made mistakes in the administration of 
his retirement account by failing to take his regular monthly contributions. 
What happened
Mr R said he set up a retirement account with SW in autumn 2018. He intended to pay in 
£50 per month but SW failed to take the payments. Mr G noticed the payments had not been 
taken in late 2020. He wanted SW to pay the £1,3000 outstanding contributions and/or any 
fees relating to the administration of his pension. Mr R asked SW not to start collecting 
further premiums until his complaint was resolved.
SW apologised that it didnt set up the regular premiums. It said the retirement account was 
set up on 14 September 2018 and requested regular monthly premiums of £50 to start on 22 
October 2018. It said that if Mr R sent the missing £1,3000 of funds to cover the period from 
22 October 2018 to 22 November 2020 It would arrange for theses to be backdated to 
ensure he was not financially disadvantaged. It also offered to pay £200 for the poor service.
The investigator didnt think SW needed to take any further action. The investigator said that 
the aim was to achieve a fair and reasonable outcome and put Mr R back into as near a 
position as he would have been in but for the error. SW had offered to invest the missing 
contribution on a backdated basis so that it would be as if Mr R had paid the premiums and 
they were invested at the time, as they should have been. There was therefore no loss of 
investment return. As Mr R had not made the payments at the time no fees were charged on 
the unpaid amounts at that time. Mr R had the added benefit of use of his money during the 
time he wasnt paying contributions. SW had already made a payment of £200 for poor 
service. He felt what SW proposed would put Mr R into as near a position as he would have 
been in but for the error. He felt that what SW had offered was in line broadly with what he 
would have recommended. For that reason he thought what SW proposed was fair and 
reasonable and wouldnt ask them to do anything further.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he now needed to pay over £2000 to SW to get his pension back 
on track through no fault of his. He paid them to run his pension regardless of not paying any 
fees for money not paid. SW were paid to administer the pension plan at a percentage as 
part of their fee structure regardless of the plans worth and have been doing so. They would 
have continued to fail if he hadnt brought it to their attention. He felt paying a lump sum in 
uncertain times would be a detriment to him.
The investigator didnt change his mind and said there was no financial detriment to Mr R. 
Mr R still didnt agree. He said SW took a minimum fee regardless of the amount invested. 
He didnt think he should have been paying that during the time the fund was mis-managed, 
He also now had to find a significant lump sum to make up the arrears which would 
adversely affect him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that SW made a mistake in not taking monthly contributions when it should have 
done. It accepts it made a mistake. 
Where there is a mistake, I can make an award for any financial loss and for any distress 
and inconvenience suffered by Mr R. The aim of an award for financial loss is to put Mr R in 
as near as possible the same position as he would have been in, had the mistake not been 
made.
If Mr R had made the proposed monthly contributions these would have been invested in 
accordance with his instructions and their value would now reflect the value of those 
investments. Mr R never paid the monthly contributions so he never lost £50 per month he 
intended to pay over. So his financial loss (if any) is the difference between the contributions 
he would have paid and their current value had they been invested in accordance with his 
instructions at the time. 
In order to compensate Mr R for any financial loss it is necessary to make an award for any 
lost investments return. SW have already offered to invest Mr Rs contributions as though 
they were made at the time they should have been. This means that he can take the benefit 
of any investment return.
It is however possible that the current value if he had invested at the time is worth less than 
the original contributions, he would have paid in. That would happen if the underlying 
investment had overall fallen in value. SW have confirmed that if he prefers, Mr R could 
invest at the unit value at the time he pays over the arrears of contributions instead. It is up 
to Mr R to determine whether he wishes to do this.
So I think SW has made a fair and reasonable offer to compensate for Mr Rs financial loss 
(if any) and what I would have directed SW to do had it not already offered to do so.
I cannot make an award that SW should pay the contributions of around £1,300 gross on 
behalf of Mr R. That is because he has not lost that money, although I accept, he may well 
have spent it and not set it aside. If I made such an award it would result in Mr R being in a 
better position than he would have been had no mistake been made. That is not fair and 
reasonable.
I have also considered the point Mr R made about charges and his suggestion he was 
paying a minimum regardless of the amount invested. The provisions of the scheme say the 
following:-
Our Charges
Service Charge
The Service Charge for your Account can be between 0.10% and 0.90% each year. It is 
applied to the total value of your Account. We expect the yearly Service Charge rate to 
initially be 0.30%. The rate may increase if the total value of your Account falls, and 
decrease if the total value of your Account rises. The charge will be deducted each month 
using 1/12th of the yearly rate.
The figures in this illustration have been calculated assuming that the following yearly 
Service Charge percentages will apply to your Account.
£0.00 and £29,999.99 0.90%£30,000.00 and £49,999.99 0.40%
£50,000.00 and £249,999.99 0.30%
£250,000.00 and £499,999.99 0.25%
£500,000.00 and £999,999.99 0.20%
£1,000,000.00 and above 0.10%
Investment Charges
Scottish Widows Pension Funds
We will make charges based on the value of the units in the Pension Fund(s) you select. 
These charges are allowed for when we calculate the unit prices for the funds, so they will 
not be shown on your Account statements. The yearly rate(s), as a percentage of fund 
values, depend on the Pension Fund(s) you have chosen. They may change at any time. 
The current yearly rate(s) are shown below. 
SW Pension Portfolio B 0.100%
The yearly rate(s) of charge for different Pension Funds may be different from those shown 
above.
I have asked SW about the charges it applied. It said its only charge was a monthly service 
charge based on the policy value (see above). It has confirmed that the charging structure is 
only active when there is money in the account. So for the time from the start of the policy to 
the date Mr R made a transfer in of around £74,000 no charges were deducted as there was 
no money in Mr Rs account. So there was no minimum charge as Mr R suggested.
Following the transfer the charges would have been at the rate of 0.30% as shown above. 
So I dont think Mr R is worse off as he has not paid more in charges than would have been 
the case had he made contributions. In fact he has paid less as he did not make 
contributions so no charges were made in respect of them. So I dont think there is any 
financial loss due to charges.
So I think the offer made by SW to reinstate his contributions as though they had been 
invested at the time is fair and reasonable. 
By way of an additional note Mr R originally intended to make gross monthly contributions of 
£50 per month and £40 net, with the remaining £10 being tax relief. SW has said Mr R can 
pay the net figure of £1,040 if he prefers.
I have also considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award is to reflect 
the impact on Mr R, not to compensate for financial loss (which I have considered in detail 
above) nor to punish SW for its mistake. It is clear that his has been upsetting for Mr R and 
caused some inconvenience, not least in terms of cash flow as he now needs to provide a 
lump sum to make up the arrears, rather than regular monthly contributions. SW have 
accepted its mistake, offered to compensate for Mr Rs financial loss and made a payment 
for distress and inconvenience, so it did not prolong the impact of its mistake. I think that an 
award of £200 is fair and reasonable and in line with the size of award I would have made 
had I needed to do so.
In conclusion, I think the offer made by SW is fair and reasonable and I wont be directing it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman