DRN-3587372
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) provided an unsuitable 
replacement appliance under a warranty.
What happened
Mrs B contacted D&G to make a claim when she had a problem with her microwave. An 
engineer visited and ordered a part to carry out a repair. A couple of weeks later, Mrs B 
contacted D&G because the repair hadnt been carried out and she said she had no cooking 
facilities. D&G offered to replace the microwave because of the delays. The microwave was 
replaced a couple of weeks later.
Following this, Mrs B complained to D&G because she said the microwave wasnt a like for 
like replacement as her previous appliance was a microwave, oven and grill, but the 
replacement had no oven function. She said she had also been left with no microwave over 
the Christmas period and had used her oven instead, which had a financial impact on her. 
When D&G replied it said it had written off the previous appliance as a gesture of goodwill 
because of the delay. It had provided a link to a replacement microwave and Mrs B had 
placed the order for it. A few days after the microwave had been installed, Mrs B contacted 
D&G to raise a complaint. It said it had provided a microwave that was similar or the same 
technical specification and Mrs B had used the appliance. It didnt uphold this part of the 
complaint, but offered £30 compensation for the delays in providing the appliance.
When Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said D&G had 
acted reasonably by offering to replace the microwave due to the delays, despite it being 
repairable, and offering £30 compensation. Mrs B chose the replacement product and only 
reported an issue with it after it had been unpacked, installed and used. So, she thought it 
was reasonable that D&G said it couldnt be returned.
As Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
D&G agreed to replace the microwave because of the delays in repairing it and that Mrs B 
was concerned about a lack of cooking facilities. Its my understanding that Mrs B had a 
separate oven, although she preferred not to use it. I think D&Gs offer to replace the 
microwave and to pay £30 compensation for the delays was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
D&G sent Mrs B a link to a replacement microwave for her to consider and, if she wanted to 
proceed, Mrs B had to place the order, which she did. Looking at the technical specification, 
I dont think this had the same specification as her previous microwave, although it was 
similar. Some of the specification seemed to be better, but it didnt have an oven function, 
which Mrs Bs previous microwave had. Mrs B was given the opportunity to review the 
product and make the decision on whether to order the appliance. The microwave was then 
delivered, installed and used. It only seemed to be at this point that Mrs B became aware 
that the microwave didnt have an oven function. But I dont think I can fairly say that was 
D&Gs fault.
D&G gave Mrs B the opportunity to review the product. If Mrs B didnt want the product D&G 
had suggested, she didnt need to order it and could have queried it with D&G at that time. 
Once the appliance was installed and used, D&Gs returns policy didnt allow for it to be 
returned. I think that was reasonable.
I can understand that Mrs B was unhappy with the replacement microwave. But, I think D&G 
acted fairly in how it dealt with her concerns about the repair delays and that Mrs B was able 
to reject the replacement microwave before it was installed and used if she didnt think it was 
suitable. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require D&G to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman