DRN-1984439
 
The complaint
Mr Vs unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc have allocated his credit card payments.
What happened
Mr V opened a new credit card with Santander in January 2019. This came with an 
introductory offer of 0% interest on balance transfers for the first 27 months and 0% interest 
on purchases for the first 3 months.  In early February 2019 Mr V made a balance transfer 
into the account and set up a monthly direct debit to pay it off before the 0% interest offer 
expired. 
On 25 March 2019, Mr V used his credit card to make a purchase costing just under £3,100 
from a travel agent. Two days later, on 27 March 2019, he paid £3,100 into his credit card 
with the intention of offsetting the purchase. The purchase and the payment into the credit 
card are both shown on Mr Vs credit card statement dated 27 March 2019. 
Santander allocated the £3,100 payment received on the card against Mr Vs original 
balance transfer in. This meant that after the offer on purchases expired, Santander started 
charging Mr V interest. Mr V wasnt expecting this and complained to the bank. 
Santander replied that they had allocated Mr Vs £3,100 payment in line with the terms of his 
account. They said this meant paying off the balance that was already on Mr Vs statement 
before any new transactions. They were satisfied they hadnt made an error. Mr V was 
unhappy with the banks response so brought his complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator reviewed all the information provided and thought Mr Vs complaint should 
be upheld. He didnt think Santander had clearly explained how Mr Vs payments into his 
credit card would be allocated. Santander werent happy with our investigators view and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the case  so it came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I set out the 
details of how Santander had communicated the allocation of payments to Mr V and said I 
thought this was reasonably clear. But I said: 
Its unfortunate that in Mr Vs case he would have avoided any interest charges if he had 
made the payment just a day later, after the statement was issued. And its this aspect 
thats particularly prompted me to look beyond the terms and conditions. The financial 
regulator has a set of fundamental principles and one of these is the following: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Im inclined to say that its clear Mr V intended his £3,100 payment to be allocated against 
his purchase, and not against his balance transfer. It seems clear he was trying to 
manage his finances sensibly. In allocating the payment against his balance transfer, Im 
inclined to say Santander havent paid due regard to Mr Vs interests, or treated him 
fairly. 
I suggested that Santander compensate Mr V by putting him in the position hed have been 
in if theyd allocated his £3,100 against his purchase instead of his balance transfer, 
recalculating all the interest and charges on Mr Vs credit card since that date and refunding 
Mr V where appropriate.
Santander replied to my provisional decision, acknowledging the unfortunate timing and 
Mr Vs clear intention. They said they agreed to my suggested compensation as a goodwill 
gesture. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and therefore my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision and Im upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Putting things right
Santander have agreed to compensate Mr V as I suggested in my provisional decision and 
Mr V has accepted this. Im satisfied this is a fair outcome for Mr V.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Vs complaint. Im directing Santander UK 
Plc to adjust all interest, charges, and balances on Mr Vs credit card account so that hes in 
the position he would have been in had his £3,100 payment on 27 March 2019 been 
allocated against his purchase instead of his balance transfer.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman