DRN-3846530
The complaint
V complains that there was a delay in it being able to speak to an advisor at Lloyds Bank 
PLC due to a pre-recorded financial promotion on their telephone line. 
V is represented by its director, Mr B.
What happened
Mr B called Lloyds on 5 October 2022 to find out what had happened to a replacement 
business debit card he had been expecting to arrive the previous week.
When the call to Lloyds customer service phoneline was connected, there was an 
immediate automated recording relating to Coronavirus business loan information. There 
was no option to bypass this recording so Mr B couldnt speak to a customer service advisor 
until the recording finished. The recording lasted for 54 seconds in total.
Mr B complained to Lloyds who explained that they were unable to remove the temporary 
message as it was there to alert customers with urgent lending issues of the correct process 
they needed to follow.
Mr B was unhappy with this response, so he brought Vs complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said he didnt think the message 
amounted to a financial promotion and he didnt think the 54 second delay had any impact 
on V.
Mr B disagreed. He said he didnt think Lloyds actions were fair and he said the recording 
was an invitation to engage in investment activity. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision, 
so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the recording, Im satisfied that it is not a financial promotion or an 
invitation to engage in an investment activity. As Lloyds have explained, the purpose of the 
recording was to enable them to reach a large proportion of their customers in the quickest 
way possible. This was in an effort to reduce their call queues as they had been receiving a 
high volume of calls in relation to this topical issue. 
Mr B argues that the recording is an advertisement encouraging customers to buy a new 
financial product. However, I dont think that is the case here. Although the recording does 
provide information about the new recovery loan scheme, it is apparent that this information 
is being provided by Lloyds to redirect calls and queries on their customer service line. This 
is to ensure customers, like V, dont have to spend an extended period of time waiting to 
speak to one of their advisors. 
Lloyds have advised us that this information is temporary and the reason there is no option 
to opt out of listening to the recording is because they need to urgently alert the affected 
customers of the correct process. So, I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong here.
I understand Mr Bs frustration that there was no option for him to bypass the recorded 
message, however I cant say that the 54 seconds the message took to listen to wouldve 
had a significant impact or caused substantial inconvenience to V or its director. As such, I 
wont be asking Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
V, to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman