DRN-3618544
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refused to provide a payment holiday 
extension for his loan or agree to a payment plan resulting in a default being registered on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr H had a personal loan with HSBC. He contacted HSBC in April 2020 and said he was 
unable to work due to the effects of the global pandemic and also due to injuries sustained at 
work. HSBC agreed to defer Mr Hs loan repayments for May, June and July 2020.
Mr H called HSBC again in July 2020. He said hed been made redundant but may be able 
to return once the global pandemic restrictions had been lifted. HSBC told Mr H how to apply 
for a payment deferral extension on their website.
Mr H called HSBC again in August 2020 to apply for a payment deferral extension. HSBC 
agreed a further deferral of his loan repayments for August, September and October 2020.
In October 2020, Mr H called HSBC to request a further extension of the payment deferral. 
But HSBC werent able to do that. They suggested he call back nearer to when his next 
payment was due to discuss options.
Mr H called HSBC again in November 2020 to see if there was a further payment deferral in 
place. HSBC said there wasnt and suggested he continue to check their website for any 
developments or changes. 
In early December 2020, Mr H called HSBC again. He explained he was still unemployed 
and receiving benefits. He also explained the ongoing impact of his previous injuries. He 
thought HSBC had agreed to extend a payment holiday for a further month. HSBC confirmed 
this wasnt the case. They agreed to consider an arrangement plan. Having completed an 
assessment of Mr Hs income and expenditure, they agreed a Long Term No Affordability 
payment plan (LTNA) for six months so that Mr H didnt have to make his repayments. 
They also agreed to refund the payment made by direct debit at the beginning of December 
2020. 
Having not received any repayments, HSBC issued a default notice in February 2021 
followed by an arrears notice in April 2021. They issued a Final Demand notice at the end of 
April 2021, closed Mr Hs loan and recorded a default with the credit reference agencies.
Mr H called HSBC in June 2021. He said hed had various conversations with them in 
December 2020 but couldnt recall all that was said due to the effects of medication for his 
injuries. He said hed been told hed already had two payment deferrals in 2020, so couldnt 
have another. He thought HSBC had said he could apply for another one in January 2021 as 
this was a new year. Mr H claimed not to have received HSBCs default or arrears letters. He 
didnt think theyd clearly explained what would happen and hadnt received confirmation of 
the LTNA. He also wasnt happy theyd recorded a default on his credit file.
HSBC reviewed their records and listened to available recordings of calls with Mr H. They 
didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so 
referred his complaint to this service.
Having reviewed all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt agree that 
HSBC had done anything wrong. Mr H wasnt happy with our investigators findings. He 
referenced numerous calls hed made to HSBC which they hadnt referred to. He didnt think 
theyd provided him with the support required. Mr H wanted HSBC to remove the default 
from his credit file and agree an affordable repayment plan for what he owed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me so that I can 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expected to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic. The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on 
the consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
HSBC agreed to payment deferrals for two consecutive three-month periods which appears 
to meet the requirements set out in the special guidance issued by the FCA. But that 
guidance was limited in terms of how much support HSBC could provide. 
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six months of 
payment deferrals.
Mr H appeared to be under the impression that he could apply for two payment deferral 
periods each year. But that isnt the case. The FCAs guidance was introduced specifically to 
assist with the impacts of the global pandemic and only provided for a maximum of two 
payment deferrals, each for three months. 
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted, HSBC 
would be expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and 
standards that apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
Section 7. These include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
HSBC completed an analysis of Mr Hs income and expenditure during a telephone call in 
December 2020. This suggested that Mr H didnt have sufficient surplus of income to enable 
them to agree to formal payment plan. They couldnt demonstrate that any payments would 
be sustainable. Mr H says he also spoke with a debt advice charity. He says that the income and expenditure analysis they completed suggested he could afford reduced payments. He 
thinks HSBC made mistakes when completing their assessment.
Ive listened to Mr Hs call in December 2020 and have found no evidence that HSBC acted 
inappropriately. And while I acknowledge Mr Hs comments, I cant comment on how the 
debt advice charity completed their assessment. HSBC had their own responsibility to 
ensure that any payment plan was affordable and sustainable. And thats what they appear 
to have done here. 
Having completed their assessment, HSBC agreed a LTNO payment plan. This meant Mr H 
didnt have to make any repayments and would allow his situation to be revisited should his 
financial position improve. They also told Mr H they wouldnt be charging any interest or 
charges on his loan or any other accounts he held with them. Thats what I would expect 
them to do here and, I believe, complies with the requirements of CONC Section 7. At the 
end of the call, Mr H expressed his gratitude for the support HSBC had offered.
Mr H says he wasnt made aware that arrears would be reported leading to a default being 
registered on his credit file. While I acknowledge Mr Hs own recollections, having listened to 
the call recording from December 2020, I believe HSBC did make this clear. Their agent told 
Mr H at least twice that the refunded December payment would show as arrears. And that 
subsequent missed contractual repayments would also be recorded this way. The agent also 
told Mr H that he may receive regulatory letters and notices in line with any missed 
payments.
Mr H said that he didnt receive any of HSBCs regulatory letters, including the default notice. 
Hes provided evidence to show that he had problems receiving post to his home address at 
that time. I realise that would have been very distressing and worrying for him. Under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (The Act), HSBC are required to send any regulatory notices 
and demands to Mr Hs home address. Theyve provided evidence to show they did that 
here. And while I accept that Mr H says he wasnt receiving his post, I cant reasonably hold 
HSBC responsible for that. They wouldnt have had any control over delivery once theyd 
been despatched. 
CONC 7 suggests that HSBC should consider accepting zero or token payments for a 
reasonable period of time in order to allow Mr H to recover from an unexpected reduction in 
income. Thats what they did here. But that doesnt require them to formally vary the loan 
agreement. Particularly where this wouldnt lead to the debt being repaid within a reasonable 
period. Where contractual repayments arent made, or a formal variation of the loan 
agreement isnt agreed, any missed or incomplete payments need to be reported as arrears 
on Mr Hs credit file. HSBC are required to do that in order to accurately reflect what actually 
happened. That reporting requirement isnt optional for HSBC.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it 
appears the arrears on Mr Hs loan met this requirement. So, I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong when they issued a default notice and recorded this on Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H says he had multiple conversations with HSBC following the agreement of the LTNO 
plan. He firmly believes that HSBC didnt take notice of his changing and improving situation. 
Hes also says he told them he was planning to sell a vehicle to raise funds to reduce the 
amount he owed. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr H made any additional payments 
to reduce his arrears or loan balance. Unfortunately, HSBC havent been able to provide 
recordings of those discussions. But as theres no requirement for them to be recorded, I 
cant reasonably say HSBC are at fault because of that. And in any event, given that 
payments werent ultimately made, I dont think this materially effects the outcome here.In response to our investigators findings, Mr H provided considerable commentary and what 
he considers is evidence to support his recollections. I want to reassure Mr H that Ive 
considered everything hes said and provided. If there is a dispute about what happened, I 
must decide on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider was most likely to have 
happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its a fact that Mr H wasnt able to make his contractual payments for an extended period of 
time. And accepting that he says he regularly spoke with HSBC about his situation, that fact 
remains unchanged. HSBC provided the maximum support available under the FCAs 
special guidance. They also appear to have done all that was required of them under CONC 
7 and reported in compliance with the ICOs PRAAD. I do appreciate Mr Hs strength of 
feeling here but Ive not been persuaded that HSBC did anything wrong. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman