DRN-2689306
The complaint
Mr R complains National Savings and Investments (NSI) obstructed him from opening a 
savings account and withdrawing his money. To put things right, he wants NSI to change 
how it verifies its customers identity over the phone.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr Rs NSI savings certificate matured. Hed opened the account 
around 20 years before. Mr R wanted to move this money into a new NSI savings account. 
As Mr R didnt hold a savings account with NSI, he wanted to apply and set one up. 
Mr R wasnt registered for NSIs online and phone services. So, as he couldnt open a 
savings account and transfer his matured funds to that account online, he called NSI for 
help. 
NSIs agent tried to register Mr R for online and phone services, but they first needed to 
verify it was Mr R they were speaking to. They asked him a series of knowledge based 
authentication questions. 
NSI use questions given to it by a third-party company who specialise in this type of activity. 
To keep matter simple, Ill refer to that organisation as Company A.
Mr R was unable to answer these questions, so NSI were not able to verify him and register 
him for its online and phone services.
Mr R says he was asked difficult questions about bank accounts he had opened a long time 
ago. And, as he had accounts with all the banks he was questioned about, he couldnt 
answer the questions correctly. Mr R asked NSI if it could ask him other questions, but NSI 
refused. It explained he would need to complete a registration form and send it in by post 
Mr R says he then wanted his account closed and his funds sent to him by cheque. NSI 
explained Mr R would need to complete another form for this to happen. Mr R printed off the 
form, completed it, and sent it to NSI. 
A few days after Mr R received a letter from NSI explaining hed been chosen for a random 
check. And this meant he would now need to complete another form which required his 
signature be witnessed before any funds were released to him.
Unhappy with what was happening, Mr R complained to NSI. NSI didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. In summary, some of the key points it made were:
Company A provides a service by which NSI can ask questions designed to identify 
the genuine customer from their banking and electoral roll information. If theyre not 
answered correctly, NSI cant progress the call
Mr Rs request to withdraw his funds was randomly chosen for a security check. 
Thats why he was asked to complete a further form requiring his signature to be 
witnessed 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. I note that before the matter was picked up by 
one of our investigators, NSI says the following happened: 
NSI received Mr Rs witnessed form and instructions to cash in his savings certificate 
with it. NSI issued a crossed warrant - which is like a cheque - in early October 2019. 
Mr R called four days later to say he hadnt received the crossed warrant. On the 
same day NSI cancelled the warrant and sent the funds by BACS transfer.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. In summary, they said: 
NSI needed to ask Mr R questions provided by Company A, as they have regulatory, 
including data protection, obligations to adhere to.
Mr Rs request to withdraw his funds was selected for a security check as NSI didnt 
have his signature on file. NSI were entitled to require Mr R to complete the form and 
hadnt caused an unnecessary delay. 
NSI do not hold a record of Mr Rs signature on the other profile  that product was 
purchased over 30 years ago.
NSI became aware that it held two customer profiles for Mr R, and it merged them, 
but this did not have any bearing on what it asked Mr R to do.
NSI need to ensure the investment is paid to the correct person, and it didnt have 
enough information to that in regard to Mr R. So, asking for Mr Rs signature to be 
witnessed was reasonable.
In addition to what Mr R said previously, he made the following points in response to our 
investigators view: 
He is making this complaint to make improvements for other people in the future 
His wife was able to arrange her matured savings to an NSI savings account without 
any issue and delay
NSI should have checked if they had his signature at the point of sending the 
withdrawal process form 
If NSI could write to Mr R to explain his saving certificate had matured, why couldnt 
they have sent the cheque too 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know my decision will 
disappoint him  so Ill explain why. 
Mr R is clearly unhappy with the type of questions NSI asked to verify his identity, and that it 
didnt ask him further questions he had a better chance of answering. I note hes unhappy 
NSI use Company A to provide these questions. 
Whats key here is that NSI, like other financial service providers, have certain legal and 
regulatory obligations to follow. And asking questions to authenticate customers is part of 
this. Its unfortunate Mr R found the questions difficult to answer. But Im satisfied NSI acted 
fairly  and in line with its obligations.  
The robustness of NSIs customer verification process is for NSI to determine - ultimately it 
must be satisfied its dealing with a legitimate customer. So it follows that Im not persuaded 
NSI has done anything wrong by using Company A to provide it with the security verification 
questions to ask its customers. Ultimately it is down to NSI to determine how it meets its 
obligations. The Financial Ombudsman Service exists to answer individual complaints. We do not set the 
regulations firms must follow or monitor firms conduct. So, its very unlikely asking a firm to 
change how it conducts its business as a whole will be an appropriate individual resolution to 
a complaint. After all, this would impact all NSIs customers, who arent bringing complaints 
to our service, and who may be happy with NSIs level of customer verification.
I do however acknowledge NSIs process caused Mr R a delay in getting his money and 
would have no doubt caused him some inconvenience. But as Ive said, these verification 
processes, despite how robust they may be, are designed to protect all the businesss 
customers. So I dont think it would be proportionate for me to recommend NSI make 
changes to these processes based on what Ive seen in this complaint. 
Mr R says NSI should have checked his other saving and investment products for a 
signature. NSI says it doesnt hold a signature for those products. I note they were equally, if 
not older, in terms of when they were taken out. So Im satisfied NSI couldnt have done 
anything more. 
Mr R has questioned why NSI didnt send him the form that needed his signature witnessed 
at the point when he was asked to complete the withdrawal process form. No doubt had this 
have been done at that point, the requirement for a witnessed signature later down the line 
could have been mitigated. 
I think this is a valid point Mr R makes. NSI should ensure it knows whether what it asked 
him to do was right. So I think NSI could have done things better by sending Mr R the form 
requiring a witness signature sooner than it did. That means theres a possibility some time, 
possibly around a week or two may have been saved in Mr R getting his money sooner than 
he did.  
But I note Mr R wanted to buy a car using his funds, and I havent seen anything to show 
hes lost out by not getting the money sooner than he did. So I think its unlikely he has 
suffered any real detriment by this delay of up to two weeks.  
I note Mr R says his wife didnt have to go through the same process he did as she was able 
to transfer her matured funds by setting up an NSI savings account online. NSI say Mr Rs 
wife had already set up her online services. So she wouldnt have needed to call NSI and go 
through the same process as Mr R.  
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, Mr R questions why NSI didnt send him a cheque 
in the post in the same way it told him his savings certificate had matured. But sending a 
cheque and being satisfied its going to is the legitimate owner, is very different from letting 
someone know those funds are matured. 
So Im satisfied NSI have acted fairly by not sending the cheque in the post to Mr R when he 
says they ought to have done so.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman