DRN-4416775
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with a claim he made about a purchase 
on his debit card.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background of this complaint so I will only summarise things 
briefly. I note Mr T is being represented in this complaint by a family member who was 
involved in the circumstances I describe below. So although I refer to Mr T throughout (as he 
is the eligible complainant) this should be taken to include the actions and submissions 
made by his representative.
Mr T booked a taxi to collect him from a music venue. Mr T says the taxi company (the 
supplier) has unfairly charged his Lloyds debit card for the booking and he wants a refund. 
In summary, he says:
the taxi did not arrive in time so he had to take an alternative service; and
when it did arrive it did not go the main entrance of the building anyway.
Mr T approached Lloyds for a refund. It raised a chargeback, but was not successful in 
getting the money back. Mr T raised a complaint about this which came to this service. Our 
investigator concluded that Lloyds had acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr T does not agree. He thinks Lloyds did not do enough to help and were not interested in 
his other evidence against the supplier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by both sides but I wont comment on it all  only 
the matters I consider central to deciding this complaint. This is not meant as a discourtesy 
to either party but reflects my role in resolving disputes informally.
I am sorry to hear about the experience of Mr T and his family member in respect of the 
plans for the journey home from the concert. However, Lloyds is not the supplier of taxi 
services here  so in deciding what is fair and reasonable I am considering its role only as a 
provider of financial services. That means it isnt liable more widely for the customer service 
provided by the supplier but it has ways to assist Mr T in getting his money back for a 
disputed transaction through card protections. As a debit card was used I consider the 
chargeback scheme particularly relevant here so it is this I have focused on in deciding if 
Lloyds has acted fairly.
Chargeback is not a legal right but is subject to the specific rules laid down by the card 
scheme. In this case I understand the debit card is a VISA so it is these chargeback rules I 
have considered. Although I note that it is unlikely other chargeback schemes would change 
the findings here in any event.
Chargeback is not guaranteed to succeed and the rules can be quite prescriptive  but it is 
often good practice for a bank to raise one where there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I can see here that Lloyds did raise a chargeback for Mr T under the reason code relating to 
service not provided  which seems like a suitable choice here. However, it appears that 
the supplier robustly defended the chargeback and provided evidence showing that the taxi 
had arrived at the venue within 15 minutes of the pre-booked arrival time. It supported this 
with GPS and text message evidence and its customer booking terms and conditions 
showing that refunds are only payable if the taxi is more than 15 minutes later than agreed.
Because of the defence raised by the supplier Lloyds discontinued the chargeback. I dont 
think this was unreasonable in the circumstances because of the defence provided. And 
even if I accepted that Lloyds could have pushed things further  I am not persuaded that 
had it got all the way to arbitration (where VISA decide the dispute) it was more likely to 
succeed than not . I will explain why.
I understand Mr T choose to take another taxi when his taxi was late. And there appears no 
dispute that the taxi was late  however, it appears there is a 15 minute window built into the 
terms and conditions which customers agree to while booking to account for situations like 
this. So technically the service was received as agreed under the terms of the contract and 
the relevant requirements of the rules do not appear to be met for a successful chargeback. 
I know that Mr T has added that when the car finally arrived it was waiting at the wrong 
entrance (goods rather than main entrance). However, I dont think this information changes 
things significantly because before this point Mr T had already left the premises in another 
taxi  which is an action consistent with cancellation (during a period there was contractually 
no refund entitlement). And in any event, I think it would be difficult to say the VISA card 
scheme would decide that arriving at a different entrance is a clear cut case of a service not 
provided here as the taxi came to the correct venue. Furthermore, this sort of 
misunderstanding can usually be clarified at the time and the chargeback rule requires 
customers and merchants to attempt to resolve things between themselves before raising a 
dispute under the scheme.
I do understand why Mr T (with his family member) choose to get another taxi and not wait 
any longer in the circumstances - particularly as they describe feeling unsafe outside the 
venue at the time. My findings are not intended as a criticism of the choice made to do this. 
But considering Lloyds role here I think it acted fairly in the way it handled the dispute, and 
even if it had done more I dont think this likely would have made a difference to the 
outcome. 
I know Mr T is very unhappy with the supplier and believes it to be fraudulent and a scam. 
The outcome of the chargeback does not prevent Mr T from pursuing his dispute against the 
supplier by other means or reporting it to relevant agencies.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman