DRN-1579821
The complaint
Mr F has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt block a payment which he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In December 2019 a loan company Mr F had an agreement with debited him £724.88 using 
a continuous authority set up on his debit card.
Mr F complained to Barclays immediately and he was told theyd be able to get the money 
back for him. In fact Barclays then explained as this was money Mr F didnt dispute he owed 
the loan company (who Ill call M) they wouldnt be able to get the money back. Mr F had 
previously asked Barclays to block transactions from M.
Barclays apologised for giving Mr F incorrect information and paid him £200. Mr F was stuck 
as he was no longer able to go to M himself as they were now in administration so was 
concerned at the financial position he was now in because of Barclays actions. He brought 
his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator agreed with how Barclays had handled this.  
Mr F was still upset about the state of his finances. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute Mr F had a loan agreement with M who collected payment of £724.88 in 
December 2019. In fact the evidence shows Mr F had been in touch with Barclays in 
September 2019 about a payment M had taken in July for £287.04. 
Barclays notes at the time state the continuous authority had been cancelled. 
But obviously this didnt occur as M were able to use Mr Fs details to take a payment for 
nearly £725 in December 2019. Barclays felt M were doing this prior to going into 
administration. That may well be but I have to wonder what authority they had to do this? As 
far as Barclays notes show Mr F no longer held a continuous authority with M as this had 
been cancelled.
Theyve subsequently told us they cant stop payments being taken but Id draw their 
attention to their obligation to cancel continuous payment arrangements on their customers 
request. Barclays refer to the customers obligation to contact the merchant (M in this case) 
but the reason the FCA instituted a change to continuous payment arrangements was to 
cover the situation when a merchant didnt act on a customers instruction to cancel a 
payment arrangement. 
I know Barclays believe Mr M didnt contact M and should have. Ive taken this into account.
Barclays has argued Mr F had an agreement with M which meant he was contractually 
bound to make payments to them. I dont dispute thats the case. But it is not Barclays 
responsibility to make sure Mr F pays his debts to third parties particularly after he has 
explicitly cancelled the payment arrangement through them.
Theyve also suggested Mr F may have had multiple agreements with M but Ive seen no 
evidence that this is the case.  
I can see from Mr Fs bank statements that for a period before December 2019 Mr F was 
financially stretched. Although there are a large number of credits  including from a range of 
loan companies  there are also payments out (to various loan companies) and regular 
gambling with his debit card. I suspect that it was the regular gambling which caused 
Barclays to be sceptical about Mr Fs financial difficulties.
Barclays has also told us Mr F would be able to dispute the payment using the chargeback 
rules as long as he put in a claim before 25 April 2020. This is the time when Mr Fs 
complaint has been with our service waiting for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. I 
asked Mr F whether hed asked Barclays to complete a chargeback. He said they rejected 
this claim. Barclays has disputed Mr F ever submitted a claim but theyve also recently 
confirmed to me they dont think hed have sufficient grounds for a successful chargeback as 
he had a contractual agreement with M. So Im not sure dangling the option of a chargeback 
was ever the right answer.
Overall Im not convinced Barclays acted on Mr Fs instruction to cancel his payment 
arrangement with M or did what they could to stop this transaction.
Putting things right
Barclays paid Mr F £200 for giving him incorrect information on the phone and never calling 
him back. I agree this seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I did consider whether it was fair that Barclays repay Mr F £724.88. At the same time M is no 
longer trading so Barclays would be unable to recoup its loss. This would also mean that 
Mr F would have had his loan partly paid for by Barclays which doesnt seem fair either. In 
the end, Mr F is not out of pocket although I suspect he wouldnt have repaid this debt all in 
one go and this payment may  particularly when considering the time of year this payment 
happened  have made issues more difficult for him.
Overall I think its fair and reasonable Barclays pay Mr F a further £200 for not following his 
original instruction and effectively cancelling the payment arrangement.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr F 
a further £200 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman