DRN-3147978
The complaint
Ms C and Mr F complain that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) delayed in dealing with their 
claim on their home emergency insurance policy, didnt communicate with them properly and 
caused further damage to Ms Cs home.
Ms C and Mr F are joint policyholders. But since Ms C has been dealing with this complaint, 
Ill mostly refer to her in this decision.
Ms C and Mr Fs policy is underwritten by Amtrust, although its administered by its agents. 
So Ill mostly refer to Amtrust in this decision.
What happened
Ms C called Amtrust on the afternoon of 27 December 2020 because of a drainage 
blockage. Amtrust said an engineer would be with her by 20:45 that evening. By the time the 
engineer arrived, he said it was too dark for him to clear the blockage and in any case two 
engineers would be needed to do it. He said they would come back in the morning.
When no-one came on the morning of 28 December, Ms C called Amtrust again. Initially, 
she was put on hold but the line disconnected and no-one from Amtrust called her back. 
She called again on the afternoon of 28 December. Among other things, Ms C told Amtrust 
her kitchen sink was backing up and there was a risk of flooding.
On the afternoon of 29 December, two engineers cleared the blockage. Ms C says by this 
time her kitchen sink had overflowed damaging her kitchen flooring.
When Ms C complained to Amtrust about the service shed had, it offered her £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience its delay in handling her home emergency had caused her.
Unhappy with this offer, Ms C brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it 
upheld it. He thought Amtrust should pay Ms C £300 for the distress and inconvenience its 
delay and poor communication had caused her. And he also thought Amtrust should pay for 
Ms Ks kitchen floor to be repaired.
Amtrust hasnt responded to our investigators view and so Ms Cs complaint has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms C and Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms C and Mr Fs home emergency policy with Amtrust covers Ms Cs home for a sudden 
and unforeseen incident which immediately (among other things) creates a risk of loss or 
damage to the home. The policy doesnt say how quickly Amtrust will respond to a home 
emergency. But Amtrust accepts that it didnt visit Ms C within what it calls the correct 
timeframe  thats why its offered her £100 for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
her.
Like our investigator, I agree the first engineer who came to Ms Cs home emergency did so 
within a reasonable time. And he wasnt to know that the work needed two engineers and 
couldnt be done in the dark. But Ms C then had to wait another two days before engineers 
returned to clear the blockage. Ms C says this delay caused her considerable stress, 
inconvenience and loss. She says Amtrusts offer of £100 in compensation doesnt 
adequately reflect the impact its delay had on her.
I agree. I dont think it was reasonable for Amtrust to take almost two days (from when the 
first engineer visited) to clear the blockage. I say this especially since Ms C had told Amtrust 
there was a danger of flooding. I think it wouldve been a very worrying time for Ms C. She 
also says she stayed up late into the night emptying the sink to try to stop it from 
overflowing. This must have been both distressing and very inconvenient for her. And 
ultimately, she says the sink did overflow, damaging the flooring, which I think would only 
have added to Ms Cs distress and inconvenience.
In addition, Ms C and Mr Fs policy says Amtrust and its agents will manage their claim and 
keep them updated through their claim journey. From what Ive seen, when the second set of 
engineers didnt arrive the following morning, it was Ms C who had to chase Amtrust to find 
out what was happening. And she made a number of further chasing phone calls to Amtrust. 
So I dont think Amtrust kept Ms C updated through her claim journey, as her policy said it 
would. I think this wouldve added to Ms Cs distress and inconvenience.
So from what Ive seen, within a short timeframe, Amtrusts delay and poor communication 
caused Ms C considerable distress and inconvenience. I think its fair and reasonable for 
Amtrust to pay her £300 to compensate her for the impact these failings had on her.
Ms C says the blockage caused her kitchen sink to overflow, damaging her flooring. Shes 
got a quote of £1,044 (including VAT) for it to be repaired. Amtrust says it accepts damage 
was caused but cant confirm who was at fault for this. It has suggested Ms C should claim 
on her buildings insurance.
Ms C and Mr Fs policy says the insurer will only pay for the emergency repair. They will not 
pay for any damage caused by the emergency. But I dont think it would be reasonable for 
Amtrust to rely on this exclusion if it caused the damage. And from what Ive seen, I think it 
probably did  as Ill explain.
When Ms C first called Amtrust to report the blockage, she said bad weather was causing 
the level of water in her kitchen sink to rise. She said shed been manually emptying the sink 
since the early hours of the morning and was worried the blockage could cause the sink to 
overflow and damage her kitchen floor.
The next day, when the engineers didnt arrive, Ms C called Amtrust again and said there 
was a potential of flooding. So at that point the sink hadnt overflowed. But the day after 
that, when the engineers did come to clear the blockage, it seems the sink had overflowed, 
and the damage to the floor had been caused. 
I havent seen much information about that damage. But from the sequence of events in this 
claim, as Ive outlined them above, I think its likely the damage wouldnt have happened if 
Amtrust had responded to the emergency in a reasonable time. So in these circumstances, I 
think its fair and reasonable for Amtrust to pay Ms C to have her flooring repaired based on 
the quote shes got.My final decision
I uphold Ms C and Mr Fs complaint and I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Pay Ms C and Mr F to have the kitchen flooring in Ms Cs home repaired, based on 
the repair quote Ms C has got for £1,044 (including VAT); and
Pay Ms C and Mr F £300 for the distress and inconvenience its delay and poor 
communication has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman