DRN-3845265
The complaint
In July 2017, Mr S invested £20,000 in a 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond with
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). He says he was given false reassurances about how secure 
the investments were and misled that they were protected if the investments failed.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr S invested in a B&G Plc a 3-year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond. Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G 
Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, 
through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. 
Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr S invetsment in the bond
Mr S first became aware of of B&G Plc both through a friend and whilst 
searching online for ISAs with good interest rates. 
Mr S applied online via the BG Ltd website after discussing the investment with 
a B&G Plc representative. 
Mr S had little investment experience or knowledge of investment risk as all his 
investments were in cash ISAs or bank and building society accounts.  
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr S has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr S applied online when taking out the bond. I have seen screen prints of each stage of the 
online application process. These show the application journey that Mr S underwent. This 
consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be 
promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. The first was certification, where Mr S was categorised as an everyday investor. 
The second was the appropriateness test. 
We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd held. I have been supplied with a 
number of call recordings post sale, these are administrative in nature and are not 
material, so they have not been relied on when reaching my findings.
Galliums response to Mr S complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr S had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Mr S met the categorisation of a restricted investor.
The application process in terms of the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
bonds for Mr S was inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance and didnt gather 
sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate 
Mr S for the losses he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ss complaint.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bonds.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCA's Handbook "are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system" (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers' interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1 R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4. 7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCA's policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCA's Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same
conclusion as the investigator, for similar reasons.
Im satisfied that BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, failed to communicate with Mr S in a 
way that was clear, fair, and not misleading during its certification process. It departed from 
the rules in COBS 4.7.10R, and gave him the means to certify himself as an everyday 
investor, rather than a restricted investor. Describing this as a category which anyone 
could fall into, which I find to be misleading. And it omitted the declaration which warns of a 
significant risk of losing all of the money hed be investing, which I find to be unfair.
Ive noted that, due to his substantial savings, Mr S may have been able to satisfy some of 
the requirements necessary to be certified as a restricted investor under COBS 4.7.10R. 
Ive therefore considered the possibility that, had BG Ltd met with the requirements under 
COBS 4.7.10R and provided the correct declaration for Mr S to review, he was capable and 
perhaps motivated to certify himself as a restricted investor.
But on balance, Im not persuaded Mr S is likely to have made the declaration which 
wouldve certified him as a restricted investor. The declaration which warns of a significant 
risk of losing all of the money hed invested, ran counter to what Mr S has said his 
understanding of the investment was at that time. I think its more likely that, had BG Ltd met 
with its obligations under COBS 4.7.10R and correctly displayed this declaration to Mr S, its 
unlikely hed have proceeded to certify himself as a restricted investor.
But even if Im wrong about this, Im satisfied that this complaint should still be upheld. 
Because like our investigator, Ive found that following Mr S certification, the 
appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond was 
not an appropriate investment for Mr S. In the circumstances Mr S would either not have 
proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not 
promote the bond to Mr S.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr S complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr S for his loss.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the investments.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
 Compare the performance of Mr S' investments with that of the benchmark shown
below.
 A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
 Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
 Pay to Mr S £250 for the distress caused by the loss of his investments. It is clear the 
loss came as a shock to Mr S, and has caused him upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Three year 
fixed monthly 
income bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Five year 
compounding 
high-yield 
bondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual valueThis means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
As the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), the
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Gallium taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gallium totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return, and I do not think he wanted to take
significant risk.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S'
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should pay the
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman