DRN-2064855
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy as he thinks Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, unfairly rejected his 
mortgage application.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M applied for a mortgage with Halifax. He already held a mortgage with 
Halifax. The new application included refinancing his existing mortgage.
Halifax declined the application for a new mortgage. Mr M found that adverse information 
had been recorded on his credit file by a third party. He contacted the third party to dispute 
this and says it agreed to remove this information. However, Halifax did not change its initial 
lending decision.
Mr M took out a mortgage with another lender instead and repaid his existing Halifax 
mortgage. As a result, he incurred an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr M complained to Halifax that it had declined his application unfairly and hadnt considered 
it correctly. As a result, he wanted Halifax to refund the ERC as well as cover costs hed 
incurred due to the extra time it had taken to obtain his new mortgage, as hed had to start a 
new application. 
Halifax said it hadnt made an error in declining the mortgage application as Mr M had not 
met its lending criteria. But it felt it couldve provided better service and provided clearer 
information to him. As a result, if offered £400 for the upset caused by the level of service 
hed received. Unhappy with this response, Mr M asked our service to investigate his 
complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He didnt think Halifax had acted 
unreasonably by declining the application. So, he didnt think it was required to refund the 
ERC or cover the costs Mr M had incurred. And he felt the £400 Halifax had previously paid 
Mr M was a fair way to address the issues with the level of service it had provided.
Mr M did not agree with the investigators findings as he still felt Halifax had acted unfairly, 
particularly as hed obtained a new mortgage with a new lender without issue. As Mr M did 
not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has explained that as part of its mortgage application process, applications are credit 
scored  using its own internal criteria. It has said the exact details of its scoring criteria are 
commercially sensitive  which I think is reasonable. It has though explained that its credit 
scoring is done using a range of information  not just that held with external credit reference 
agencies. 
Halifax has explained that Mr Ms application failed the credit scoring process, which led to 
the application being declined. A lender is entitled to set its own lending criteria and policy. 
And a lender can make its own commercial decision whether or not it is willing to lend. And 
based on the information Ive been provided, Im satisfied that Halifax has acted in line with 
its lending criteria when declining to provide the mortgage Mr M requested. Mr M has said 
that his later application with another lender was accepted  indicating Halifaxs decision 
was incorrect. But different lenders have different criteria. So, I dont agree that this shows 
Halifaxs decision was incorrect.
Ive seen information to show that after the initial decision to decline the application was 
made, the mortgage advisor assisting Mr M referred it to an underwriter to be reviewed. But 
the underwriter endorsed the original decision. 
Mr M says that the underwriter did not reconsider the application correctly. Specifically, he 
says they didnt take into account that the adverse information on his credit file was being 
disputed with the third party and was due to be removed or that he was a longstanding 
customer of Halifax. 
Halifax has provided copies of the underwriters notes in relation to the appeal. These 
indicate the adverse credit information recorded by a third party was not the only factor in the 
decision to decline the application. So, the underwriter didnt think the outcome of the 
application should be changed.
I know Mr M feels strongly about this and doesnt agree with the decision Halifax has made. 
But the information Ive seen doesnt lead me to think the underwriter acted unfairly or that 
their decision was incorrect. 
So overall, based on what Ive seen I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax did anything 
wrong by declining the mortgage application. And again, businesses are entitled to make a 
commercial decision about whether or not they are willing to lend.
Ive seen details of Mr Ms original mortgage with Halifax, including the mortgage offers and 
product transfer information. The information explains Mr Ms mortgage was on a fixed 
interest rate and that if it was repaid before January 2021 an ERC would be payable. When 
Mr Ms new mortgage application was declined by Halifax, he repaid this mortgage in full, 
moving the borrowing to another lender. As this happened before January 2021 an ERC was 
charged in line with the terms of his mortgage. 
Mr M has said he would like Halifax to refund this because it shouldve approved his 
application which wouldve meant no ERC was charged. But as I dont think Halifax has 
acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ms application, I dont think itd be fair to ask it to refund 
the ERC  as it has been charged correctly. And I also dont think itd be reasonable to ask it 
to cover the additional costs Mr M incurred as a result of having to source an alternative 
mortgage.
Halifax has said that the service it provided couldve been better. Specifically, it has said it 
wouldve been more appropriate for the mortgage adviser to tell Mr M to wait until the 
adverse credit information had been removed from his credit file and then re-submit the 
application for underwriting. And that by immediately submitting the application for review it 
raised Mr Ms expectations unnecessarily. And because of this it paid him £400 for the upset 
caused.
Taking everything into account, I think this offer is fair. Halifax acknowledges it couldve 
handled things better, so I think its fair that it does something to address this. But even if it 
had made it clear to Mr M that appealing to underwriters straight away rather than waiting for adverse information to be updated was not its usual process, based on what Mr Ms said 
about wanting to complete the application quickly I think its unlikely hed have been willing to 
wait  as the wait for the adverse information to be updated by the third party couldve been 
a number of weeks. And even if he had, the underwriters notes indicate that this adverse 
credit information was not the only reason that the application was declined, so I cant say 
that doing this wouldve meant the application was accepted. So overall, I cant say that this 
error caused a financial loss, and with that in mind, I think the £400 Halifax has already paid 
in respect of not giving Mr M clear information is fair and I dont think it needs to do more.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman