DRN-3780569
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mr G with a guarantor loan for £2,000.00 in July 2019. This loan had 
an APR of 49.74% and a term of 36 months. 
This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £3,508.56, including interest, fees and 
charges of £1,508.56, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £100. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint and she thought George Banco 
shouldnt have provided Mr G with his loan. So she thought that Mr Gs complaint should be 
upheld. 
George Banco disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr G could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
While the payments for this loan were relatively low and suggest that a lighter touch check 
might have been proportionate here, Im mindful that the information George Banco has 
provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before this loan was provided. The 
results of which showed that Mr G was already significantly indebted. 
Indeed George Bancos own checks also showed that, at best, the payments to this loan 
would take Mr G right towards the margin of his income. And this was with the use of 
estimated living costs too. Furthermore, the information George Banco has provided also 
suggests that Mr G was already using most of the credit available to him as well.
I do accept that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. But as there is no 
indication of which debts Mr G was going to consolidate, its unclear to me how or what was 
going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mr Gs already 
precarious financial position going forward.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr G has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Gs difficulties reflected his choices 
rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from George 
Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Gs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Gs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr G. As 
George Banco provided Mr G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr G ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr G lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Mr G by:
refunding any amount Mr G actually paid over and above the £2,000.00 he was 
initially lent;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts, if there are any, 
from the date these amounts were paid by Mr G to the date of settlement;
in the event no outstanding balance remains, removing all adverse information it 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file as a result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman