DRN-3825122
The complaint
Miss W complains that she paid several policy excess fees to Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) for replacement windscreens to be fitted, under her motor insurance policy. 
Miss W is represented by Mr J in her complaint.
Any reference to Admiral includes its agents and contractors.
What happened
In August 2021 a stone hit Miss Ws windscreen whilst she was driving. The glass was 
damaged beyond repair and she arranged for the windscreen to be replaced. In November 
she noticed another crack and took photos. Mr J says there was no sign of impact damage 
and thought the glass should be replaced under warranty. But Admiral made Miss W pay 
another policy excess charge, which they felt was unfair. 
In January 2022 Mr J says he noticed a scuff mark on the windscreen. He says this was 
examined by Admiral, but the technician didnt think it would develop into a crack. No repairs 
were carried out. 
In February 2022 Mr J says he noticed another crack in a different place on the windscreen. 
Admiral said there was evidence of impact damage and so a further policy excess fee was 
charged for the replacement windscreen. Mr J didnt think there was evidence of an impact. 
He says Admiral wasnt prepared to listen to him and its customer service was terrible. 
In its complaint response Admiral says it found no evidence that the cracks were caused by 
anything other than new damage. It refers to its engineers reports that show impact damage 
was identified. 
Mr J didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She thought the evidence supported Admirals view that the cracks 
were caused by new impact damage on each of the occasions this was raised.   
Mr J disagree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from Miss Ws policy schedule that she has windscreen cover automatically 
provided as part of her comprehensive cover. Under the excess details it confirms that £115 
is payable in the event that a windscreen is replaced or £25 if a repair is possible. 
Ive considered the reports that were produced by Admirals windscreen technicians. There 
is no dispute that the first damaged windscreen in August 2021 needed replacing or that a 
policy excess fee was applicable. So, Ive looked at the report relating to the damage 
reported in November. This includes a diagram of the damage shown as a crack on the 
passenger side of the windscreen. The comments say:
dirty on inspection. Car has come in for a warranty inspection there is a [sic] impact mark on 
glass pictures been taken and shown customer.
We asked Admiral for the photos its technician refers to in the report. It responded to say 
that no photos were uploaded onto the system as the details were shared with the customer 
at the time. I note Mr Js comments that he disagreed there was evidence of an impact mark. 
Ive seen the photos Mr J has provided from the crack he noticed in November 2021. There 
is a mark on the glass next to the cracking that is toward the centre of the windscreen. Its 
not clear if this is the mark the technician was referring to. It wouldve been helpful to see an 
image taken from further out. But there are no further images other than those taken at close 
range.
I must base my decision on the evidence presented. Where there is expert evidence 
provided, such as the report from the windscreen technician, this will often be persuasive. 
Where evidence is lacking, or is conflicting, then my findings have to be based on what, in 
my view, is more likely to have happened. 
On balance Im more persuaded by the technicians findings that there was evidence of an 
impact, which was shown to Mr J at the time. I understand he will disagree, but Im not 
persuaded that hes shown the damage was caused by faulty glass or an error with the fitting 
of the windscreen. 
Ive also looked at the technicians report from March 2022. This includes a diagram showing 
where the damage was identified on the windscreen. This is at the top towards the 
passenger side of the rear-view mirror. The photos that were taken show a clear impact 
mark where an object has hit the windscreen. Cracking of the glass extends from where this 
occurred. 
Based on this evidence I think Admiral behaved fairly. I think its reasonably shown that this 
was new damage and the policy terms require a £115 excess fee. 
I note Mr J says he was told the windscreen damaged in February 2022 was due to be sent 
to the windscreen repairers head office for inspection. He has queried whether this 
happened. 
We asked Admiral to comment on this point. It says its repairer doesnt have a facility at this 
office. But that as a technician had taken photos and a manager had reviewed the damage, 
it wouldnt retain a damaged windscreen. It says this would be disposed of in its recycling 
skip. Admiral says that some confusion may have occurred in relation to this point.
 
Ive thought about whether this impacts on my decision. I dont think it does. Its clear from 
the photos provided that the windscreen was damaged by an impact. This shows it wasnt a 
fault with the glass or an installation error. Im satisfied that the policy excess was charged 
correctly. 
I note Mr J says the standard of customer service he received was poor. Ive read the 
contact records Admiral has supplied. I can see it paid Mr J a total of £101.70 compensation for poor service. This is made up of £50 for trouble and upset, £5.70 toward travel expenses, 
and £46 for the duration of the calls that he made. 
 
Admirals records say Mr J understood he was taking the car for repairs to be covered under 
warranty. But this turned out not to be the case when he arrived at the garage. Admiral also 
acknowledges Mr Js comments that its technician was rude, abrupt, and made him feel 
intimidated. The records show that an apology was given to Mr J for the poor service.   
I can see that Mr J is a named driver on Miss Ws policy. Clearly, he shouldnt expect to be 
treated rudely when trying to deal with this matter on behalf of himself and Miss W. Im sorry 
that he experienced a poor standard of service. I think it was appropriate that Admiral offered 
an apology and compensation. But I think £101.70 is fair in the circumstances described. 
Having considered all of this, although its clearly unfortunate that Miss Ws windscreen 
cracked several times in a relatively short time frame, I dont think Admiral behaved unfairly 
when relying on its policy terms and charging a policy excess. I think it behaved reasonably 
when apologising and compensating for its poor customer service. So, I cant fairly ask it to 
do anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman