DRN-1701079
The complaint 
Mr Hs complaint is about ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) and its refusal to refund the 
full premium paid for his single trip travel insurance policy taken out in August 2018. Mr H 
declared a change in a family members health in July 2019, which caused ERV to require 
an additional premium. Mr H decided that he didnt want to pay the extra cost to keep the 
policy and asked for a full refund; ERV said it would withhold 30% of the premium paid in 
August 2018 as it said Mr H had benefitted from the policy from the start. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Insurers have to act fairly and reasonably when dealing with policyholders. When a 
health issue arises or changes, this duty doesnt change, but the risk may increase, 
which is why such issues can lead to an increase in premium or a refusal to continue 
cover at all. Mr H has noted that theres relatively new guidance being consulted 
upon about how to treat policyholders affected by this issue, but this is mainly about 
signposting policyholders to other parties who can offer support or advice. It wasnt in 
force at the time and as at the time of writing the guidance about premiums isnt in 
place.
A travel insurance policy can cover many potential claims of varying types. It can 
deal with curtailment of trips for a variety of issues, provide medical cover while 
abroad, but another valuable type of cover is cancellation cover. Cancellation cover 
covers the insured persons from the start of the policy. Mr H received the benefit of 
this type of cover for about eleven months before cancelling the policy.
ERV offered Mr H the option of paying the additional premium or cancelling the 
policy. The terms and conditions of the policy say that only a proportionate refund will 
be made  in other words, the part of the policy thats already passed or been used 
(for example, three months) wont be refunded if the policy is cancelled. In Mr Hs 
case, much more than 30% of the length of the policy had passed when he cancelled 
it, but ERV paid more than the proportionate length of the policy  it paid Mr H more 
money than the policy said he was entitled to receive despite Mr H having nearly a 
years worth of cover. The reason why ERV did so was because Mr H had a single 
trip policy and it had a policy of retaining 30% of the premium for any policy cancelled 
outside of the cooling off period due to changes in health. The policy has meant Mr H 
has paid 30% of the premium for eleven months of cancellation cover, which seems 
fair and reasonable in my view.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about ERGO Reiseversicherung AG. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman