DRN-4195324
The complaint
Miss V has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) avoided her 
home insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay a claim.
What happened
Miss V took out a home insurance policy with Accredited through a broker. Miss V made a 
claim following a water leak at the property. When Accredited assessed the claim, it decided 
Miss V didnt live at the property. So, it said she had answered the question incorrectly about 
occupancy of the property. It said had it been aware she didnt live at the property, it wouldnt 
have offered the policy. It said it considered this to be a deliberate/ reckless 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to refuse all claims and void the policy.
When Miss V complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said it was 
reasonable for Accredited to decide that Miss V had made a qualifying misrepresentation.
As Miss V didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Accredited thinks Miss V failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she said she lived at the property.
Ive looked at the policy documents. The Statement of Fact said the property was Miss Vs 
main residence. Following an investigation by Accredited into the claim, it concluded that the 
property wasnt Miss Vs main residence. I asked Accredited a number of questions about its 
investigation, including about the discrepancies it said it had identified, the weight it had put 
on some of the evidence and that Miss V had complained about the behaviour of the 
investigator and that Accredited seemed to allow the investigator to investigate this himself. 
Accredited didnt respond to the questions. Based on the evidence Ive currently seen, I dont 
think I can fairly conclude that Miss V failed to take reasonable care. I think there were a 
number of issues with how the claim was investigated and that Accredited hasnt shown why 
its investigation and the conclusions it reached were reasonable.
However, even if I had reached the conclusion that Miss V hadnt taken reasonable care, I 
havent seen evidence that it would have been a qualifying misrepresentation. In other 
words, I havent seen evidence that it would have made a difference to whether Accredited 
offered the policy. I asked Accredited to provide its underwriting information, so that I could 
consider whether it was a qualifying misrepresentation. Accredited said it couldnt provide 
this information because it didnt have access to it. So, I havent seen evidence that shows it 
would have affected whether Accredited offered the policy and, if so, in what way. As a 
result, Im currently unable to conclude that it was reasonable for Accredited to avoid the 
policy and to decline the claim.
So, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require Accredited to remove 
references to its avoidance from internal and external databases, reinstate the policy and to 
consider the claim. Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware that Miss V has been 
impacted by the way her claim was handled and how it was investigated. So, I currently 
intend to say that Accredited should pay her £200 compensation.
This is my provisional decision. If I am provided with evidence that addresses the issues I 
have raised, I might reach a different outcome.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 4 July 2023. 
Accredited provided what it said was its underwriting criteria. It also provided some 
comments, which in summary said:
It was a household policy so it wouldnt have provided cover had it known Miss V didnt 
live at the property and that it wasnt used for residential purposes.
It referred to some policy conditions related to change of use of the home and Miss Vs 
responses in the policy documents on whether she lived at the property.
It explained again how its investigator had assessed occupancy and how this compared 
to another property it thought Miss V lived at. 
It said there was no absolute requirement for the adjuster to record a meeting. The 
adjuster had prepared a statement and Miss V was able to amend it.
It said it was difficult to credit that the adjuster bullied Miss V given that her own loss 
assessor attended the meeting and didnt support the bullying allegation.
It said Miss V was now on her third loss assessor, having seemingly fallen out with the 
first two. Although Accredited wouldnt automatically assume what the neighbour said 
was true, it said it was entitled to draw an inference from their evidence and it did seem 
she had a habit of dismissing people who didnt agree with her. It pointed to some 
comments Miss V had made about the initial complaint to this service as further evidence 
of this.
Even if it did conclude there was cover in place, the claim would be excluded because of 
the unoccupancy condition, which was relevant because it was some time before Miss V 
realised there was damaged, as evidenced by the mould growth and discrepancies over 
when the loss was said to have happened.
Following this, I asked Accredited to confirm whether what it had provided was its 
underwriting document, as it didnt appear to be. I also asked it some questions about the 
documents it had provided. Accredited then sent its underwriting document and its 
endorsement wording.Miss V acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide comments about 
the decision itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that I have considered the comments and documents provided by Accredited. I 
was already aware of most of the information Accredited provided when I made my 
provisional decision, including about how it assessed occupancy and about Miss Vs loss 
assessors. I was also aware that one of Miss Vs loss assessors had said Accrediteds 
investigator hadnt bullied her, although I note it was the investigator himself who asked the 
loss assessor this, rather than something Accredited investigated. Accredited also seems to 
be suggesting the property was used for business purposes. Im aware the property used to 
be a business but havent seen evidence that it was a business while Accredited was the 
insurer.
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt think I could fairly conclude Miss V failed to take 
reasonable care. This was because I thought there were a number of issues with how the 
claim was investigated and that Accredited hadnt shown why its investigation and the 
conclusions it reached were reasonable. In my view, the additional information provided 
doesnt fully address the concerns I raised with Accredited about how it investigated the 
claim, including the weight it put on issues and the discrepancies it identified. So, I remain of 
the view that I cant fairly conclude that Miss V failed to take reasonable care.
However, I will also focus again on the issue of misrepresentation. It is only after repeatedly 
asking Accredited that it has now provided its underwriting document. At first it said it didnt 
have access to it. It then sent a document that it now says wasnt its underwriting criteria and 
has since sent its underwriting document and the related endorsements.
The main issue in this complaint was whether it was fair for Accredited to decide Miss V had 
made a misrepresentation and to cancel the policy. In order for it to do so, it had to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation. In other words, if Miss V made a misrepresentation, Accredited 
needed to show it would have made a difference and, if it did, what that difference was. 
I have read the underwriting document. It included a list of reasons to decline cover. None of 
these related to unoccupancy. I also read each part of the underwriting guide that referred to 
unoccupancy. This included the general underwriting guidelines, which said that it would 
cover most non-standard household risks including unoccupied properties. 
I also read the section that covered unoccupied properties. I didnt read anything that said 
unoccupied properties would be declined. In addition, I checked the unoccupied property 
endorsements referred to in that section. Again, I didnt read anything that said cover 
wouldnt be provided at all, although some referred to reduced cover and various protections 
that should be in place. So, I still havent seen evidence that it was a qualifying 
misrepresentation that entitled Accredited to cancel the policy. As a result, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Accredited to cancel the policy and to decline the claim.
Im aware Accredited has also now said that if the property was unoccupied, it might have 
applied some endorsements to the policy. However, Accredited didnt take that action and 
this wasnt part of this complaint. I therefore havent considered this, as I dont consider that 
it is relevant to me making a decision about whether Accrediteds decision to cancel the 
policy was reasonable.Putting things right
Accredited should remove references to the policys avoidance from internal and external 
databases, reinstate the policy and consider the claim. It should also pay Miss V £200 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to:
Remove references to the policy avoidance from internal and external databases
Reinstate the policy
Consider the claim
Pay Miss V £200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman