DRN-2761970
The complaint
Miss S says TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss S took out a guarantor loan from TFS in April 2016. It was for £7,500 over 60 months.
The monthly repayment was £279.25 and the total repayable was £16,755.
Miss S says she is finding it very hard to repay the loan and perhaps it should not have been 
provided in the first place as she had other guarantor loans at the time. TFS has offered to 
reduce her monthly repayment and extend the loan term but she would like this service to 
assess if that is the fair outcome.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said TFSs checks were
not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt affordable for
Miss S.
TFS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Miss S. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Miss S could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss S, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ss
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Miss S before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of her income, her monthly living costs and her existing credit commitments. It checked her
credit file to understand her credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was debt consolidation and money for her wedding. From these checks combined TFS 
concluded Miss S would have monthly disposable income of £67.14 after making the 
repayment for this loan and so concluded the loan was affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Miss S was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from TFS. She was entering into a long-term commitment and
would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect that TFS would
want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Miss Ss financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. Particularly as its income and expenditure 
analysis showed she would be left with little money for any unforeseen expenses  and she 
had three dependents. So, in the round, I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to 
independently check the actual state of Miss Ss finances before agreeing the loan, rather 
than relying solely on her disclosures for certain items.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Miss Ss complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown TFS and consider if it ought to
have realised that Miss S most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Miss Ss bank statements. Im not saying TFS had to do this, but it is one 
way TFS could have gathered the information I think it needed on Miss Ss financial 
situation. As our investigator said these show Miss Ss expenses exceeded what she had 
declared and included around £650 per month of gambling transactions. So he concluded  
as I have  that Miss S didnt have the disposable income TFS had calculated, and wouldnt 
be able to afford this loan. Had TFS carried out better checks it would have most likely 
become aware of the amount of her income Miss S was spending on gambling and been 
concerned she having problems managing her money. From that TFS would have realised 
there was a high risk Miss S would be unable to sustainably repay the loan. TFS has said it has the right to use information provided by the customer as well as what the 
credit report showed, and it is not an FCA rule to check expenditure or see bank statements. 
As it knows, the FCA does not set out exactly what checks are required, but the rules and 
guidance are clear that things like the term, the value and the cost of the loan should 
influence the level of checks carried out. And here Miss S was borrowing £7,500 over 60 
months with £9255 of interest payable - so I remain of the view that a fuller financial review 
was needed. 
TFS also said Miss S had a responsibility to provide accurate information and it seems she 
withheld information on purpose. But this does not change my conclusion, it does not alter 
TFSs obligation to carry out proportionate checks before lending. And as Ive said I think 
that if TFS had completed proportionate checks, it would have realised the loan was 
unaffordable for Miss S. So as a responsible lender it would have decided not to approve her 
application.
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did. It agreed to a reduced payment plan and refunded 
arrears management fees once it knew Miss S was struggling to make her repayments.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss S to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Miss S 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ss loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Miss S a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ss complaint and TFS Loans Limited must now put things right as set
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman