DRN-2207121
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
misrepresented a car he acquired via a Personal Contract Plan (PCP).
What happened
In July 2015, Mr H was considering purchasing a new car. He visited a dealership and took a 
new car for a 48-hour test drive and, as he liked the car, he agreed to take out a PCP with 
MBFS to fund a new car of the same model.
The PCP was for 4-years, at the end of which, there was an optional purchase payment to 
be made by Mr H if he wished to keep the car.
Mr H says he thought the car would come with all of the same features as that of the one 
hed test driven, and was concerned when he discovered the car hed acquired didnt have 
automatic wing mirrors, or a reversing camera. Mr H says he raised this with the dealership 
on several occasions but was eventually told, if he wanted those items, he would need to 
pay an additional £3,000. Mr H says he decided not to pay the extra amount of these items 
and kept the car.
When the PCP agreement ended in July 2019, Mr H says he was upset to find that the 
optional final payment was £14,000. He says he thought the price of the car should have 
been £3,500 cheaper than the amount that was outstanding. Mr H complained to MBFS 
about the overall cost of the car and the missing features. He said that the outstanding 
balance should be reduced to reflect the fact that the car had been misrepresented to him.
MBFS didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the cost of the car was clearly set out in both 
the PCP agreement and the pre-contract checklist.
Mr H was unhappy at the response from MBFS and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr H hadnt 
raised any issues with the car being mis-sold or misrepresented to him by the dealership to 
MBFS. There also werent any notes of any conversations that had taken place with the 
dealership. The investigator thought, if Mr H had been unhappy with the car, then he would 
have acted sooner than he had. 
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to say the car had been mis-sold due to 
the missing features. And she thought the cost of the car had been clearly set out in the 
paperwork. She also thought it would be reasonable to have expected Mr H to have read the 
terms and conditions before he signed the agreement.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said that he had spoken with the manager of 
the supplying dealership when he realised the car hed been supplied with wasnt of the 
same spec as the car hed test driven as the wing mirrors were not automatic, and there was 
no dashcam. Mr H says that, due to various changes of managers his complaint was 
prolonged, so it wasnt possible to return the car. He had then gone away for a period of time 
and hadnt carried on with his complaint. Mr H says he was repeatedly told he needed to 
keep paying the monthly instalments, which he had. Mr H says he was upset at the size of 
the final payment that was required to keep the car.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that he expected the car to be identical to the one he had test driven when he 
agreed to take out the PCP, but this had not been the case. He says he wouldnt have 
ordered the car if hed known it wasnt the same as the one hed test driven.
Under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) a lender, like MBFS, may be 
liable for what's said in pre-contract discussions by the dealer. Mr H says that the dealer 
misrepresented the spec of the car he was acquiring under the PCP, and the overall cost of 
the car.
To find that the car had been misrepresented to Mr H Id need to be satisfied that the dealer 
probably told Mr H something that wasnt true, and that untrue statement, on its own, 
induced him to take out the PCP for the car. Here, I dont know what was said at the point of 
sale by the dealership to Mr H. Mr H says that, as hed enjoyed driving the courtesy test 
drive model, he decided to acquire the same model. But I dont know whether the dealership 
had actually told Mr H that if he took out the PCP it would be for an identical car with all the 
same features.
Ive seen that after Mr H complained to the dealership about the missing automated wing 
mirrors and dashcam it appears he was told that if he paid an additional £3,000 these items 
would be added. I think this shows that its likely the automated wing mirrors and dashcam 
were optional extras and came at an additional cost. So, I think its likely a car with these 
features would have cost more than the model Mr H acquired. 
Looking at the evidence I dont think I can reasonably say Mr H was induced into taking the 
car on basis it had the automated wing mirrors and dashcam. Ive seen that he chose to 
keep the car, even though it didnt have these features. And I agree with our investigator that 
its reasonable to have expected Mr H to have raised a complaint with MBFS, if he had been 
unhappy about the car, long before he did so.
Mr H says he thought the car was around £3,500 cheaper than the cost set out in the PCP 
agreement. But, looking at the paperwork, I think all the figures are clear. The PCP 
agreement, on page one, sets out the cost of the car, the cost of the credit and the final 
optional payment amount. Mr H has signed this agreement to show that he is happy to be 
bound by its terms, and I think it would be reasonable to expect Mr H to have read the 
paperwork before signing it. So, I cant fairly say the paperwork misled Mr H as to the cost of 
the car.
Looking at the evidence, and for the reasons given above, Im not satisfied the car was 
misrepresented to Mr H or the agreement mis-sold to him. I am not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman