DRN-2978241
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his mortgage he holds with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Halifax.
What happened
An ombudsman colleague issued a decision in June 2021 in which he said we couldnt 
consider what had happened before 6 January 2014 as Mr W hadnt complained about the 
events before that date within the time limits set out in our rules. 
Our investigator then set out her findings about what happened in that time period. She said, 
in summary:
Halifax had already (in 2018) reversed the two £40 field agent fees that had been 
added to the account in 2015.
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong in paying the ground rent / service charges in 
2014 and 2016 and then adding those sums to the mortgage debt to protect its 
security.
Whilst Mr W believes the balance should be lower than it is, she cant see that is the 
case.
She didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
Mr W had said he wanted a hearing with the deciding ombudsman. The issues he said he 
wanted to raise related to our jurisdiction to consider the complaint so I explained that a 
hearing wouldnt be a forum to discuss my colleagues jurisdiction decision, and that having 
reviewed the complaint I didnt find a hearing was necessary to decide the merits on the 
parts of the complaint my colleague had said we could consider. 
I also said In your submissions you previously referred to the period in question as not 
being the subject of your complaint, and a period where nothing happened. I understand that 
since then youve been provided with a full transaction history for your account, so it may be 
your opinion on that has changed. To that end, Id appreciate your comments as to whether 
there is anything you feel Halifax did wrong in the period from 6 January 2014 to date.
Although Mr W has said that this period isnt the subject of his complaint and so were 
wasting our time and resources considering it, hes also not agreed to withdraw the 
complaint and allow us to close it and so Im issuing this decision as the final stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Its clear that Mr W is unhappy about the decision my colleague reached about our 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint, and he provided a list of questions he wants 
answered. As weve explained, there has to be some finality in our process and it wouldnt 
be appropriate for us to continue to correspond about the same matters once an 
ombudsman has issued a decision on them. Having reviewed my colleagues decision I cant 
see that hes erred in his understanding of our rules, or in how he has applied them, and so 
there will be no further mention in this decision about our jurisdiction. I also wont be 
answering Mr Ws questions about that as this is a decision about what happened on Mr Ws 
mortgage account between 6 January 2014 and when he complained to Halifax in 
November 2019.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reach by our investigator.
On 6 January 2014 Mr Ws mortgage was on Halifaxs standard variable rate and there it 
remained. I cant see, for the period I can consider, that Mr W requested his mortgage move 
to a preferential interest rate at all, and so, having considered everything I dont think Halifax 
did anything wrong between January 2014 and November 2019 in relation to the interest 
rate on Mr Ws mortgage.
Ive reviewed the fees and charges that were added to Mr Ws account between January 
2014 and November 2019. The only fees that were added to the account were £40 in 
January 2015 and £40 in March 2015. However, as they were reversed by Halifax in 2018 I 
dont need to make a finding on whether or not they were fairly charged as Halifax has 
already resolved that issue.
In the period in question, there were two ground rent / service charges that were added to 
the account  the first in April 2014 and the second in May 2016.
Halifax is entitled to pay ground rent and service charge arrears where it is necessary to 
preserve the security interest, and then add those amounts to the mortgage debt. If Halifax 
hadnt paid them, its likely the matter would have gone to court or even moved to forfeiture 
of the lease (that is, in effect, repossession of the property by the freeholder). Both of these 
actions would have incurred court costs. 
If Mr C wanted the payments refunded to his mortgage account, he would have needed to 
show Halifax the money wasnt due. To do this, Mr C would have needed to take the matter 
to a tribunal or other relevant authority. If it had then been found that some or all of the 
money already paid to the freeholder wasnt due, but the freeholder wasnt ordered to return 
it, then thats a complaint Mr C could have raised with Halifax. But without anything from a 
tribunal or other relevant authority to show that the amounts werent due, and that the 
freeholder hadnt refunded the money directly to Mr C, then I cant say Halifax did anything 
wrong in making the payments and then adding those amounts onto the mortgage debt.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing service or carry 
out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. Ive looked at the transaction history for the 
period I can consider and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Of 
course, its open to Mr C to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit 
his account. But that would have to be at his expense  though if errors were found to his 
financial detriment, he could complain about them and his costs in discovering them could 
be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things stand, during the period Im able 
to consider, Im not persuaded that Halifax has mis-managed his account.
Whilst this complaint has been with us Mr C has raised some new issues. As we can only 
deal with the complaint that was originally referred to us, those arent points I can consider 
here. If Mr C is unhappy with Halifaxs response to any new issues hes raised then he can 
refer that to us as a new complaint (subject to our usual rules, of course). In terms of this complaint I can only consider the period between January 2014 and 
November 2019, and having considered everything I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman