DRN-2869469
The complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice TennetConnect Limited (TC) gave to
switch his pension and open an investment account. He also complains about a delay in
receiving an income payment from his pension which he says led to a financial loss.  
What happened
Mr B and his wife, Mrs B, both have complaints with our service about many of the same
concerns. However, this decision will focus on Mr Bs complaint against TC.
Mr and Mrs B met TC at a retirement planning course in 2017. As both Mr and Mrs B were
due to retire that year, they asked TC to provide them with financial advice about their
retirement plans. Mr and Mrs B both had occupational pension schemes (OPS) as well as
additional voluntary contribution (AVC) pension plans. They also had savings and
investment accounts.
In March 2017 TC completed a fact find with Mr and Mrs B. In summary the fact find
recorded:
Mr B was due to retire in April 2017, followed by Mrs B in August 2017.
Their primary goal in retirement was to secure a combined income of £5,000 to
£6,000 per month.
Mr Bs OPS was estimated to provide an annual pension of £28,232.79 and a taxfree
lump sum of £84,696.87.
Mrs Bs OPS was estimated to provide an annual pension of £30,350 and a tax-free
lump sum of £91,050.
Mr B had an AVC plan with a value of £129,312.
Mrs B had an AVC plan with a value of £122,225.
Mr B had cash deposits of around £51,000, an investment account valued at around
£42,000 and £6,000 held jointly with Mrs B.
Mrs B had cash deposits of around £18,000.
Mr and Mrs B had a Low/Medium attitude to investment risk.
TC also sent Mr and Mrs B a discussion letter in March 2017 which outlined what they
thought Mr and Mrs Bs cash flow could look like in retirement. In summary, the letter said
Mr and Mrs Bs OPSs would achieve a joint monthly income of £4,280. So, they needed
around £700-£800 a month to reach their desired income of £5,000 per month. Mr and Mrs B
were due to receive their state pension in 5 to 6 years which was likely to exceed their
income target. But TC said the tax-free cash from the OPSs comfortably exceeded the
£50,000-£60,000 shortfall before the state pension could be paid, so Mr and Mrs B didnt
need to draw on their AVCs.
In May 2017 TC sent Mr and Mrs B a suitability report. The report focused on Mr Bs existing
savings and investments and how he could invest the tax-free cash from his OPS in the
short, medium and long term to meet Mr and Mrs Bs income objectives. In summary, TC
recommended Mr B switch his existing investments onto a new platform and invest in their
actively managed fund which TC says matched Mr Bs attitude to investment risk. It also
recommended Mr B invest a further £65,000 into this fund. These investments were for the
longer term. In the medium-term TC advised Mr B to invest £20,000 into a stocks and shares
ISA and £15,000 into an absolute return fund which aimed to generate a return above
0.00%. Mr B acted on TCs recommendations.
In July 2017 TC provided Mr B with a suitability report which focused on their
recommendations for his AVC plan. In summary TC said Mr B could achieve his income
objective through his regular income from his OPS and cash deposits. So, they didnt think
Mr B needed to draw on his AVC funds at that time. However, they did recommend Mr B
switch his AVC plan to a personal pension and invest it in the same actively managed fund
as his investments. Mr B didnt act on TCs recommendation at that time.
TC produced a further suitability report for Mr B in November 2017. In it, TC again
recommended that Mr B switch his AVC to a personal pension and invest in the actively
managed fund. The report also recorded that Mr B had an objective of releasing £20,000
from his AVC to replenish his savings.
TC recommended that Mr B release £20,000 when switching to the personal pension in the
form of a partial uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS). Mr B would then receive a
tax-free lump sum of £5,000 and the balance of £15,000 would be paid as taxable income.
TC suggested Mr B initially withdrew a small amount of taxable income (£1,000) and then
the remaining £14,000 once his PAYE reference had been established.
Mr B went ahead with TCs recommendation and switched his AVC to a personal pension.
Mr B says he received £5,000 tax free cash in January 2018 followed by £1,000 (minus
income tax) in February 2017.
Mr and Mrs B say they met with TCs adviser in March and April 2018. Mrs B had also
planned to release £20,000 through a partial UFPLS. But Mr and Mrs B hadnt received the
balance of their funds after the tax-free cash and Mr Bs first income payment. So, they say
they asked TCs adviser for the remaining funds.
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs B wrote to TCs adviser who acknowledge that they hadnt
received remaining balance of the partial UFPLS. He said there had been an issue with the
pension providers platform which was now rectified and asked for Mr and Mrs B to return
acceptance slips. Mr and Mrs B say they wrote directly to the pension provider to request the
withdrawal in October 2018.
In November 2018 Mr B received payment of the remainder of the UFPLS. However, by that
time the value of the funds had reduced from £14,000 to £13,220.58.
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs B complained to TC. They said they were unhappy with the
excessive delay in receiving the remainder or their partial UFPLS which they said led to a
reduction in its value. They also had several other concerns. Mr B was concerned a large
proportion of her funds had been invested in a fund that didnt match his attitude to
investment risk. He says he was told the absolute return fund would not drop in value and it
was a short-term investment, but it had dropped in value. He went on to say, the annual
report hed received in October 2018 didnt show the charges hed paid. And generally, he
felt the investment strategy TC had recommended didnt meet his income objectives.
In response TC said Mr and Mrs B ought to have been aware they needed to request the
remainder of their partial UFPLS. And when they did request it in October 2018, it was paid
to them. The reduction in value was down to market fluctuations, so TC didnt think it was
their fault the value had reduced. TC went on to say Mr and Mrs Bs funds were invested in
their active managed fund BBT 5. TC said Mr and Mrs B had completed a risk assessmentin their fact find which showed they had an attitude to investment risk score of 5 
Low/Medium. They say the 5 denoted in the funds name represents the risk profile of the
fund as being Low/Medium and so, it matched Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to investment risk.
TC said their advice was that Mr and Mrs B should have had enough cash deposits to make
up the income shortfall they had for the next few years. And so, their other pensions and
investments were invested for the medium to long term. They said the absolute return fund
was meant to be a medium-term investment and even though the funds aim was to not drop
in value, their report had highlighted it wasnt guaranteed. Finally, TC said the annual report
didnt include the annual charges in the relevant section because the plan had been in place
for less than 12 months.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with TCs responses. They said theyd asked TCs adviser in
March and April 2018 for the remaining funds. They also said TCs strategy had focused on
providing an income of £5,000 a month and not the higher figure of £6,000 despite it being
clear they wished to enjoy their retirement whilst they were young enough to do so. They
also pointed out several concerns with the accuracy of TCs reports.
TC didnt accept Mr and Mrs Bs further points. And so, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint
to us. 
I sent Mr B and TC my provisional decision on 28 May 2021. In it I said that TC had delayed 
Mr Bs request to withdraw funds and so needed to put things right. However, I thought TCs 
reports and advice were suitable. Ive copied my provisional findings below.   
My provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said:
Throughout their complaint to TC, Mr and Mrs B had concerns with several different issues.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, I want to assure Mr and Mrs B
that Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my
decision.
TCs Reports
Mr and Mrs B are concerned that TCs reports contained several errors and they were
concerned that the annual charges werent included in their annual report. I can see that the
reports did contain typographical errors as well as the inaccuracies Mr and Mrs B pointed
out. However, its clear Mr and Mrs B knew that these were errors and while I appreciate it
was concerning for them, I dont think the errors led to any material loss or inconvenience.
As for the annual charges, TC say they werent included as the plan had been open for less
than 12 months. The charges on the various investments and pensions were shown quite
clearly in the suitability reports. But I agree with Mr and Mrs B that it would have been
clearer for them if the fees had been recorded on the annual report. That being said, its a
business decision made by TC as to how they display their annual reports and I havent
seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs B were incorrectly charged. So, I wont ask TC to do
anything more.
Suitability of advice
TC provided several suitability reports to Mr and Mrs B over the course of 2017. But their
general strategy for providing an income for Mr and Mrs B in retirement was to top up theirOPS benefits using cash deposits Mr and Mrs B had from their existing savings and the tax-
free cash from the OPSs.
TCs suitability reports record that Mr and Mrs B were due to receive a combined total of
about £176,000 in tax-free cash from their OPSs. They say Mr and Mrs B were looking for
modest capital growth ahead of cash deposit rates and inflation. And I think its reasonable
for TC to look at ways to protect Mr and Mrs Bs tax-free cash from the effects of inflation.
Mr and Mrs B say they were looking for an investment strategy that meant they were able to
enjoy their hard-earned money whilst they were young and well enough to do so. And they
gave an objective of receiving £5,000 to £6,000 a month in income. I appreciate
Mr and Mrs Bs concerns that TCs reports focused on the lower end of their desired income
range. But its not unusual to see a financial plan that looks to achieve at least the minimum
income needed in retirement and I dont think that makes the advice unsuitable.
TC laid out a plan for the short, medium and long term in their report to Mr and Mrs B in
May 2017. They recommended Mr B invest £85,000 and his existing investments into TCs
actively managed fund for the long term. They then proposed Mr B invest £20,000 into a
stocks and shares ISA and £15,000 into a Cofunds absolute return fund for the medium
term. TC said that would leave circa £50,000 in the short term to supplement their income for
five years until their state pension was payable.
TCs May 2017 report isnt clear if its investment strategy was taking into account both
Mr and Mrs Bs tax-free lump sums. The report recommended Mr B invest £100,000 in new
investments, but he was only due to receive about £84,000 in tax free cash from his OPS.
The fact find recorded that Mr B had about £50,000 in cash based deposits. So, I think its
unlikely Mr B alone would have in excess of £50,000 in cash deposits for the short term after
his new investments. However, Mrs B was advised in the July 2017 report to invest £75,000
(later reduced to £65,000) of her tax-free cash into medium and long term investments. This
would have left about £26,000 of her tax-free cash for the short term.
Having read TCs suitability reports, I dont think it was particularly clear to Mr and Mrs B
how much money they would have left in cash deposits for the short term, and how that
would provide them with the income they desired. However, I think its likely that
Mr and Mrs B would still have had circa £50,000 in cash deposits after making TCs
recommended investments. And, like TC said, that money could have been used to
supplement their income to at least their minimum requirement.
Mr and Mrs B also still had investments for the medium to longer term which TC say
protected them from inflation over remaining as cash deposits. And both had AVCs that
didnt need to be drawn on and could remain invested in a tax efficient way. Mr and Mrs B
were concerned that the BBT 5 fund didnt match their attitude to risk. But I havent seen any
evidence that TC incorrectly assessed Mr and Mrs B attitude to risk, or that the fund falls
outside of that risk profile. So, while I think TC could have been clearer in their reports, I
think their advice and investment strategy was suitable.
Absolute return fund
I appreciate Mr B is disappointed that the returns on his investment into an absolute return
fund didnt meet his expectations. However, I can see in TCs report from May 2017 they
said the fund had the aim of generating, not guaranteed absolute return above 0.00%.
TCs report goes on to say:
The Fund aims to typically deliver absolute (more than zero) returns over a rolling
discrete 12 month period. An absolute return performance is not guaranteed over thisspecific time period, or any other, time period and consequently the fund will
experience some volatility.
Mr B said at the time of his complaint that the fund had dropped in value, so he didnt think
hed been given best advice to invest in it. But TC gave sufficient warnings to Mr B that the
returns werent guaranteed and also warned him more generally about investment risk.
I cant hold TC responsible for market fluctuations and the performance of this fund. And I
dont think the fund was outside of Mr Bs attitude to investment risk. So, I think this
investment was suitable for Mr B.
Withdrawal of funds
Mr and Mrs B say they asked for the remaining UFPLS funds at their meetings with TCs
adviser in March and April 2018. But TC say they have no evidence of meetings being held
at the time and the only request they had from Mr and Mrs B was much later in the year.
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, as it is in this case, I base my decision on what
I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs B emailed TCs adviser on 4 September 2018. In the email they refer to the fact
that theyd discussed drawing £20,000 from their pensions in their last meeting. And they
asked for an update as they thought they should have received the payment by then.
Following on from this email TCs advisor sent an internal email to a colleague that day
which said ;
this request for a withdrawal was made around the time of the AVIVA
Platform Upgrade and we delayed the request due to their platform difficulties.
I have dug out the WER and previous report to create the withdrawal back on the 11th
March 2018
TC argue that the we referred to by the advisor could be read as the advisor saying that he,
and Mr and Mrs B decided to delay the request. However, Mr and Mrs B say that isnt the
case.
As the adviser no longer works for TC, they havent provided an account from him. So, Ive
given more weight to Mr and Mrs Bs account as they were present in the meetings. TCs
reports recorded that the £20,000 was to be used to replenish Mr and Mrs Bs savings. While
there didnt appear to be a pressing need for it, its clear Mr and Mrs B wanted £20,000 each,
not £5,000 with the remainder due some time in the future. Mr and Mrs B received the tax-
free lump sum element of this withdrawal in early 2018. And I havent seen any evidence it
was Mr or Mrs Bs wish to delay receiving the remainder of their funds. So, I think its more
likely the advisor was talking about his firm when he wrote we delayed the request.
Further evidence of this is found in the Withdrawals/Encashment Record (WER) which was
referred to in the advisers email. TC have provided a WER that shows a date of request as
30 March 2018 and is signed and dated by the adviser on 10 April 2018.
Under the heading amount to be withdrawn, the WER states £15,000, as per report. It
records that the reasons for the withdrawal were outlined in the suitability report dated 13
November 2017. And under date funds required by the WER records 4 weeks.
Had Mr and Mrs B not requested the withdrawal again around March 2018, I see no reason
why the WER would have been filled out at that time.
TC say they havent seen any evidence that meetings took place between Mr and Mrs B and
their adviser in March and April 2018. Or that the withdrawals were discussed. I asked
Mr and Mrs B if they had any evidence of their meetings with TCs adviser. They produced
hand written notes which they say were made at the time of the meetings. I can see thenotes are dated 29 March 2018 and 18 April 2018. Mr B has also provided a print out of his
funds values which was dated 29 March 2018.
Whilst TC dont have evidence that the meetings took place in March and April 2018,
Mr and Mrs Bs account, their notes from the time and the WER completed by TCs adviser
suggest to me that its more likely than not that meetings did take place as Mr and Mrs B
say.
The notes provided by Mr and Mrs B suggest that the remaining £15,000 withdrawals were
discussed during the meeting on 29 March 2018. Mrs Bs notes say forms to fill in. [TCs
adviser] to bring forms. [TCs adviser] to do. So, I find it no surprise that the date of request
on the WER was the following day and it was signed by TCs advisor the week before their
meeting on 18 April 2018.
Mr and Mrs B had only recently retired and this appears to be their first withdrawals of funds
from their pensions. So, whilst TC argue that Mr and Mrs B should have chased the funds
earlier than September 2018. I dont think its fair to assume that Mr and Mrs B knew how
long the withdrawal would take so therefore knew when it was reasonable to chase TC to 
find out what was going on having already chased him in March and April 2018.
The responses to my provisional decision
TC havent made any further comments of submissions for me to consider.
Mr B says that he still feels that TCs advice was flawed and didnt provide them with the 
income they required. So, he still feels the fees should be returned. However, Mr B hasnt 
provided any new evidence that hasnt already been considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered my provisional findings in this case.
I appreciate that Mr B feels TCs advice didnt provide him the regular income he wanted. 
But for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I think TCs advice was 
suitable. So, I wont ask them to refund their fees.
I do, however, think TC need to put things right for Mr B regarding his withdrawal request. 
So, Ive set out below how TC need to put thing right.
Putting things right
In order to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in had TC not delayed the
withdrawal requests, Ive thought about when its likely the withdrawal would have been
made but for this error.
The WER completed by TCs adviser recorded 4 weeks as being the date the funds were
required by, and the form asks the adviser to take into account the providers timescales. The
date of the request was recorded as 30 March 2018, so I think that the latest the funds would
have been withdrawn was 27 April 2018.
I think its fair to use this date for any redress calculation as I havent seen sufficient
evidence that Mr and Mrs B were pushing for the withdrawal to be made in the previous taxyear. And, even if TC had processed their request on 30 March, I think its unlikely the units
would have been sold and funds withdrawn before the end of the tax year.
Therefore, I think TC should calculate the difference between the value of the crystallised
part of Mr Bs funds as of 27 April 2018 and its value when it was finally paid to Mr B in
November 2018. The difference should be paid to Mr B, with the correct amount of tax
deducted. 8% simple interest should then be added to this amount from 27 April 2018 until
the date of settlement.
TC have denied that Mr B met with her advisor in March and April 2018, despite his
assurances and he waited many months for his remaining funds that TC had delayed.
This led to the inconvenience of having to repeatedly chase the remaining payment.
Therefore, TC should pay Mr B £100 for the inconvenience and upset theyve caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. I direct TenetConnect Limited 
to;
Calculate the difference between the value of the crystallised part of Mr Bs funds as
of 27 April 2018 and its value when it was finally paid to Mr B in November 2018. The
difference should be paid to Mr B, with the correct amount of tax deducted.
Pay Mr B 8% Simple interest on this amount from 27 April 2018 until the date of
settlement.
Pay Mr B £100 for the inconvenience and upset theyve caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman