DRN-3234743
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible when it opened a credit card account for
him in June 2015, and then increased the credit limit from £600 to £1,500 in September 
2015. Mr D said his financial situation was already extremely poor before this.
  
What happened
Mr D told us that when he opened an account with NewDay in June 2015, he was already in
a protected trust deed, had several payday loans, and had four defaults registered on his
credit file. He said this was all due to a serious gambling addiction he had at the time. He
didnt think that NewDay shouldve made this initial lending, or substantially increased his
credit limit only a few months later, in September 2015.
Mr D said he didnt think NewDay could have done proper checks on his credit record, or it
wouldnt have opened this account, or increased his lending. Mr D said that by the end of
2015 hed maxed out the card, and he couldnt pay. He said he came to an arrangement with
NewDay, the debt was sold, and hed made a partial settlement in March 2020.
Mr D said that more recently he had asked NewDay to refund interest and fees on the card,
and to remove late payment and default markers from his credit file, but NewDay said it
hadnt made a mistake.
Mr D said he was discharged from the trust deed in 2018 and had been getting his life back
on track since. But he couldnt now apply for a mortgage with this default on his credit file,
and it wasnt going to be removed until December 2022.
NewDay said Mr D had met its lending criteria when it lent to him in June 2015, and then
again when it had increased his credit rating in September 2015. It didnt think it had done
anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. I wont set out her reasoning here, as I havent
adopted it.
Mr D said he found it astonishing that companies were allowed to lend to people like him,
who were in trust deeds, indicating pre-existing financial difficulties. He knew that people
need to get their lives back on track after being in these arrangements, but Mr D thought he
should only be able to build his credit back up after the trust had been released.
Mr D said he accepted he had some responsibility for all of this, because he had made this
application, but he said that he had a serious gambling issue at the time. Fortunately, Mr D
said hes now recovered from this.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr D has told us that he was in a protected trust deed at the time that he applied for 
this credit card. And hes told us that this happened because he had a very serious 
gambling problem, which remained an issue whilst he had this card. Im very glad to 
hear that Mr D has since been able to recover from this addiction.
A protected trust deed is a legally binding arrangement in Scottish law where an 
individual can make reduced payments to their debts, over a period which is typically 
at least four years. I think its reasonable to say that a protected trust deed is a more 
serious step than entering into a debt management plan.
A protected trust deed doesnt prevent lenders from offering someone credit, as a 
matter of law. However, it is an indication that someone has experienced particularly 
serious financial difficulties, and it is a matter of public record. So it would clearly 
need to be fully considered as part of any decision to lend.
NewDay has said that it was aware of one public record on Mr Ds credit file when it 
made the decision to lend to him. I think its reasonable to assume that this public 
record was Mr Ds protected trust deed, which he has told us had been in place since 
2013, and remained in place until 2018.
NewDay doesnt appear to have taken any steps in 2015 to find out what lay behind 
this public record on Mr Ds credit file. Its just said Mr D met its criteria for lending at 
the time. So it doesnt look like NewDay was aware of whether this public record 
referred to a county court judgment, or a protected trust deed, or something else.
Because NewDay doesnt appear to have explored the public record noted on Mr Ds 
credit file, I dont think that NewDay has demonstrated that it carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay any 
lending it made to him in a sustainable way, before it opened an account for him in 
July 2015.
And I also think if NewDay had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks at 
that time, it would have realised that Mr D remained in a protected trust deed, and 
had payday loans on top of this. Given the implications of this, I think NewDay would 
then have been unlikely to lend to Mr D at this time.
For the avoidance of doubt, I also think that once NewDay had lent to Mr D, and had 
seen that he was using a significant proportion of the credit available on this card for 
gambling transactions and large cash advances (which Mr D has told us were also 
used for gambling) NewDay ought not to have increased Mr Ds credit limit in 
September 2015.
For those reasons, I think that NewDay should rework this debt now, so that its 
reduced by the amount of any and all fees and interest charged to Mr D. If NewDay 
has to buy back Mr Ds debt from the debt collection agents to complete this 
reworking, then it must do that.
Theres rarely any money left once thats done, but if this results in any surplus in this 
case, NewDay should pay that money to Mr D, plus interest at 8% simple, starting 
from the date the fees or interest were charged and running until the date the 
payment is made.Because I think this lending should not have been made to Mr D at all, NewDay must 
also remove all record of it from Mr Ds credit file.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties arent obliged to reply if theyve nothing to add, and in this case neither party has 
done so.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd must do the following 
rework this debt now, so that its reduced by the amount of any and all fees and 
interest charged to Mr D. If NewDay has to buy back Mr Ds debt from the debt 
collection agents to complete this reworking, then it must do that.
if this results in any surplus in this case, NewDay should pay that money to Mr D, 
plus interest at 8% simple, starting from the date the fees or interest were charged 
and running until the date the payment is made.
NewDay Ltd must also remove all record of this lending from Mr Ds credit file.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman