DRN-1391914
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Ms C. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. Ms C 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, I'm not upholding it for 
reasons that I'll now explain.
Ms C took out the PPI policy at the same time she was applying for her card in store. The 
application form she filled in and signed has an option to select PPI and I can see that she 
selected this option. So I think AXA made it clear to Ms C that she had a choice about 
buying the cover and she actively decided to do so. But I can understand why she may not 
recall this now.
From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Ms C. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it met her needs. I think its possible that AXA could 
have given Ms C better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better 
information would have changed her mind about buying the policy. I say this because:
 
Ms C appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
The policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Cs other means and, potentially, for 
much longer. So I think she would have valued the extra security the policy gave her.
 I cant see any real reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Ms C. 
And as she paid the policys premiums monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no 
longer met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Ms C has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms C has said about why she thinks the policy was mis-
sold, but Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that her complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint against AXA France IARD .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman