DRN-3198229
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with charges applied for damages when she returned her vehicle to
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes).  
What happened
 Miss E entered into a hire purchase (PCP) agreement with Mercedes in March 2017. The
term of the agreement was 3 years, and collection of the vehicle was arranged for February
2020. On the collection report dated 18 February 2020, there is a handwritten note saying
that the customer had all 4 alloys repaired through smart insurance. Wasnt satisfied with
repair as still looks damaged.
Some weeks later Mercedes sent through an invoice for £902 damages. This was the cost of
replacing two of the alloy wheels. The inspection video carried out after the car had been
returned pointed out welds to two of the alloy wheels and the commentary said that the
wheels had been welded and this made them unsafe.
Miss E complained about these charges, and the time it took to provide the
invoice/inspection details. Mercedes rejected the bulk of the complaint saying that the
wheels had been welded which caused them to be unsafe and meant they had to be
replaced. They said this damage fell outside of their vehicle return standards, and whilst they
understood Miss E had tried to get these repaired prior to collection, this was done through a
third party and Mercedes could only go on the video inspection which they felt showed the
wheels needed replacing.
Mercedes did accept that it had taken longer to provide this report due to the start of the
pandemic and offered a gesture of goodwill of a 10% reduction to compensate for the delay,
bringing the total payable down to £811.80.
Miss E wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. She told us that the
wheels were repaired professionally and are not fragile or unsafe. She didnt feel it was fair
to have to pay for replacement wheels as they are no longer cracked and have been
repaired.
The investigator here who investigated the case felt that the inspection video said that the
welded wheels were weak and unsafe so did not uphold the complaint.
Miss E wasnt happy with this and offered to pay Mercedes 50% of the bill (£405.90).
Mercedes didnt accept this, and so Miss E asked for an Ombudsman to review the file and
make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2021. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
Miss Es father has represented her in bringing this complaint to our service, but for
simplicity, I will just refer to Miss E when discussing what weve been told and the evidence
weve been supplied, as he has provided testimony and evidence on her behalf.
After asking for an Ombudsman decision, Miss E provided some commentary around
welded wheels from an MOT inspector and from a representative of a company which welds
alloy wheels. Whilst I appreciate the efforts they went to, they were commenting from what
they could see from the inspection video and hadnt actually inspected the car. As such, I
cant give any great weight to their testimony.
The inspection video provides little detail or evidence. We briefly see the areas which are
said to have been welded, and the person filming it says this makes the wheels unsafe. We
dont know who this person is, or whether they have carried out any further checks of the
wheels to come to this conclusion.
I have done some of my own research around welded alloy wheels and also asked
Mercedes for more information and comments about their assessment of the wheels and
subsequent actions.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at Mercedes vehicle return standards which
were provided to Miss E when she took out the agreement and again 6 months from the end
of the agreement. There are also industry standard guidelines published by the British
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair
wear and tear in respect of a vehicle being returned. So, I have also considered these in
deciding what it is fair for Mercedes to charge on the return of the car.
There is no dispute about the 2 wheels having been welded. Miss E had the cracks in the
alloy wheels repaired shortly before the car was due to be collected. She feels they were
repaired and were safe.
If I look at Mercedes vehicle return standards, there is no specific mention around welds or
welded wheels. Cracked wheel trims are mentioned as not acceptable, and minor scuffing or
damage to the alloy edge or wheel face must be under 25mm, but neither of these are
relevant to the issue we have with these wheels. The wheel trim/face would be the outward
facing part of the wheel, whereas the welded parts of these wheels are on the inside of the
wheel.
The BVRLA guidelines reference that for general repairs:
Any repairs made to the vehicle before its return must be to a professional standard by
repairers who can provide a full warranty on their work.
With regards to wheels, the BVRLA guidelines say:
 Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
I asked Mercedes for more information. I wanted to understand what their assessment of the
damage was and whether it was structural or cosmetic concerns, and if they had structural
or safety concerns, what evidence they had to back these up. I also asked for confirmation of
whether they had replaced the wheels before selling the car on.
They made several points which I will detail here. Firstly, they said that BVRLA standards
confirm that any damage to the hub is unacceptable. I agree, the guidelines do say this.
However, I dont think this is relevant to this case, as the hub of the wheel is the central part,
whereas this welding is to an outer part of the wheel. I will discuss this further below.
Mercedes also said that their vehicle return standards say that any under body damageaffecting the structural integrity of the vehicle is not acceptable. Whilst I would also agree
with this as a statement, welding to part of the wheel would not in my view fall into under
body damage, which really refers to the chassis of the car.
They said that they believe its clear the hub has been cracked and the damage has been
welded, and whilst this might be considered an acceptable repair should you own a vehicle,
it wouldnt be able to be sold in such a condition and therefore the alloys would have to be
replaced before sale. They said this would be the same for all welding repairs on alloys, not
just for this case.
This also references the wheel hub again. Whilst I can appreciate that perhaps some people
might consider the wheel hub to mean the whole alloy wheel, the BVRLA guidelines split
out discussions about wheel damage to include wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the
alloy. If these guidelines were saying that the hub was the whole alloy wheel, there would
be no need to separately specify the spokes or the fascia. As such, Im satisfied the
reference in the guidelines to the hub is talking about the central part of the wheel which isnt
relevant to this welding.
Mercedes went on to explain that the structural integrity of the alloy has been compromised
by the cracks and that it cannot be determined if the welding was completed correctly.
However, theyve provided no further evidence of any structural compromise or damage
other than the video inspection.
Finally, Mercedes told me that the vehicle was sold to a retailer at a reduced sale price to
compensate for the work required but said they couldnt provide evidence of the price they
could have received for the vehicle had the damage not been present.
Based on my interpretation of the Mercedes vehicle return standard and the BVRLA
guidelines, I dont think there is a section of the guidance about wheels which fits the
damage which has occurred here. Instead, I think the most relevant section is about repairs
generally in the BVRLA guidelines, which says that any repairs made to the vehicle before
its return must be to a professional standard by repairers who can provide a full warranty on
their work.
Miss E didnt provide a warranty to Mercedes for the repair work carried out. However,
Mercedes have provided no evidence to suggest the work wasnt carried out to a
professional standard. Equally, theyve provided no evidence of any structural or safety
issues with these wheels. Instead, theyve argued that any welded alloy wheels would be
unsafe.
Ive considered this point carefully and done some research on the welding of alloy wheels.
There are numerous companies undertaking welding of alloy wheels to repair cracks, and its
clear that welded wheels can be completely safe and if repaired suitably would pass an MOT
test. As such, I dont agree with Mercedes view that any welding of an alloy would create
structural compromise or automatically be unsafe.
I also understand Mercedes argument that they dont feel the car could be sold in a retail
situation with these wheels because they could become liable for rectifying the situation if
the wheels failed. However, theyve confirmed they sold the car on to a retailer without
replacing the wheels, so no liability exists in this case.
I feel that a compromise here is the correct and fair resolution. Miss E has had the wheels
repaired through a third party insurance policy in good faith but there is no warranty provided
to Mercedes to guarantee this repair work. But Mercedes havent provided any evidence that
the work wasnt carried out to a professional standard or that there is any ongoing specificsafety issue with these wheels.
Mercedes originally offered a 10% reduction in the bill of £902 as a gesture of goodwill for
delays. On balance I think that a fair resolution here would be for the original bill of £902 to
be reduced by 50% to £451.00.
This recognises that without a guarantee for the repair work carried out on the wheels, the
price Mercedes could achieve when selling the car on will have been lower. But it also
recognises that charging Miss E for replacing the wheels with new alloys is disproportionate.
This replacement wasnt carried out, and the price Mercedes were able to sell the car on for
is unlikely to have been £902 lower than expected based on the welded alloy wheels.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I partly uphold this complaint, and I intend to ask Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to reduce the bill for damage to the alloy wheels by 50%
as described above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss E and the business responded to my provisional decision saying they were happy 
to accept it. On that basis, I see no reason to change that decision in any way.   
Putting things right
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should reduce the bill for damage to the alloy 
wheels by 50% to £451.00.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited should reduce Miss Es final damages bill as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman