DRN-3763698
The complaint
Ms B complains NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams didnt deal fairly with a dispute she 
raised over a payment she made on her card for a COVID-19 testing service.
What happened
Ms B used her NewDay credit card in November 2020 to pay £157.99 for two COVID tests 
from a company I will call CT. Ms B bought the tests in order to be able to meet the 
requirements to take a flight, so it was important that she received the results by a particular 
date.
Unfortunately, the results did not arrive in time and Ms B says she needed to cancel her 
holiday as a result. She asked CT for a refund, but had difficulty getting through to them and 
became concerned as she noticed there were lots of other customers of CT in a similar 
situation.
Ms B then contacted NewDay to ask for help getting her money back. NewDay attempted 
whats known as a chargeback to reclaim the payment for the tests. CT disputed the 
chargeback and following this NewDay decided not to pursue its attempt to reclaim the 
payment further. A temporary refund which had been put into Ms Bs account was taken 
back. Unhappy with this decision, Ms B complained, but NewDay refused to change its 
position and Ms B therefore referred the matter to this service for an independent 
assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the case and made the following findings:
It appeared that each COVID test was priced at £100 or under, so Ms B did not 
benefit from the protection provided by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) as this only applied to items costing more than £100.
However, NewDay had not handled the chargeback process fairly and reasonably. 
When CT had disputed the chargeback, the points they had made in their defence 
didnt address the reasons for the chargeback being made. NewDay should not have 
accepted such an obviously invalid defence, and pursued the chargeback more 
robustly.
Media reporting on CT at about the same time Ms B had problems with their testing 
service, suggested the company was routinely unable to meet its commitments to 
customers, so it seemed likely the chargeback, robustly-pursued, would have been 
successful. 
Concluding, our investigator said NewDay should refund Ms B the £157.99. NewDay 
disagreed with our investigators view. It said it had reviewed the evidence Ms B and CT had 
provided, after CT disputed the chargeback, and had noted that Ms B had received the test 
results but hadnt evidenced when she was meant to receive them. Because of this, it didnt 
think it could have pursued the chargeback further with any success, and had been right not 
to.
Our investigator asked why NewDay hadnt asked for this evidence as part of its review after 
it had received the response from CT, or allowed Ms B to review the response so she could 
challenge it as appropriate. It replied that there had been a change in the Mastercard 
process in October 2020 which meant it could no longer add further evidence once a 
chargeback had been disputed.
Following this, our investigator reviewed the Mastercard rules for the relevant time and 
concluded they did not support what NewDay had said. He said that in any event Ms B had 
provided the date CT had told her shed receive the results, and confirmed when they were 
actually received, but that this hadnt been addressed at all in the response to the 
chargeback. So he remained of the same opinion: that NewDay should provide a refund.
No agreement could be reached and the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services on a credit card, their card issuer may be able to 
help when something goes wrong with the purchase. This may be because they have a legal 
obligation to consider a claim under section 75 of the CCA, or because they are able to 
dispute the payment via the dispute resolution mechanisms run by the card schemes.
Section 75 of the CCA
Our investigator didnt think the protection afforded by section 75 of the CCA applied to 
Ms Bs purchase. This hasnt been disputed by either party to the complaint, and I will deal 
with it only briefly by saying that our investigator was correct to conclude this type of 
protection didnt apply to the purchase. That is because section 75 only applies to items with 
a price of more than £100 and it would appear that each test in this case was priced under 
the threshold.
Chargeback
The dispute has centred on the other main avenue via which NewDay could have assisted 
Ms B. In certain circumstances, a card issuer can attempt to claim a refund of a payment, or 
part of it, under the dispute resolution process operated by the card scheme to which the 
card belongs. Disputing a payment in this way is usually known as a chargeback. 
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed and can be challenged by the other side to the 
dispute. The other side will normally be the merchant from whom a person made their 
purchase, sometimes represented by the company which provides the merchant with their 
facilities for accepting cards.
A consumer cannot demand that their card issuer attempts a chargeback, and that is 
because it is not a consumer right. However, I would expect the card issuer to attempt a 
chargeback as a matter of good practice, so long as the chargeback would meet the criteria 
set out by the card scheme and would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding. I would 
also expect a card issuer to administer the chargeback process in a competent way and not 
make errors. This could include, for example, pursuing the chargeback to the next stage 
(pre-arbitration) after receiving an obviously invalid challenge or defence from the other side 
to the chargeback.
The chargeback  CTs response and NewDays decisionIn this case, Ms B filled out a form from NewDay to start the chargeback process. The form 
explained that the chargeback was being made because Ms B had not received goods or 
services by the agreed date. On the form she was asked to describe what shed ordered, 
provide the date she was meant to receive it, and any other evidence she thought was 
relevant. 
In the appropriate boxes on the form, Ms B said she had ordered COVID testing kits from CT 
which had arrived, but when she had returned them she hadnt been provided with the test 
certificates in time to fly. She said shed not been able to get hold of CT. She said she was 
told shed get the results by 25 November, but didnt receive them until 10pm on 26 
November, after shed been due to fly. She added that there were lots of complaints online 
about CT and their webpage referred to the problems they were having.
This form was sent to CT as part of the chargeback process. I think it made it clear what the 
problem was. CT (represented by its payment services provider), disputed the chargeback 
and said the following:
The cardholder gave consent to bill and authorized this payment by entering [credit card] 
and billing information on a secure website. [Cardholder] authorized payment We have 
strong reason to believe that the cardholder fully authorized this transaction and is falsely 
disputing this transaction based on the evidence that the following payments were also 
made by this cardholder and were not disputed
This clearly did not address the chargeback which had been raised and seemed to deal 
instead with a complaint which Ms B hadnt made: that she hadnt authorised the payment. 
NewDays internal notes on Ms Bs account suggest the weaknesses in CTs defence were 
recognised, and also that the chargeback had not been submitted with the most appropriate 
reason. On 14 January 2021 the following text appeared in a note (I have paraphrased to 
make it easier to read):
Defence received for Ms Bs chargeback1st chargeback raised for Services Not 
Provided however as per the dispute form Ms B has received the test report but received it 
late, hence chargeback should have been raised Not as Described. CT has not provided 
any strong documents to defend the claim.
About a week later another note appeared which said:
Ms Bs dispute form says service received but not provided evidence for defective [service] 
claim.
This was followed up a few days later by a longer note which said essentially the same thing, 
that Ms B hadnt provided evidence to show that she didnt get the test results on time. At 
this point NewDay decided not to take the chargeback any further. 
When our investigator challenged NewDay on this, it maintained that it was the right 
decision, adding that it didnt ask Ms B to provide the additional evidence because this 
wasnt possible due to the Mastercard rules.
Was this fair and reasonable? In order to determine this, it has been necessary to examine 
the rules NewDay referred to.
What the relevant rules say
The relevant card scheme rules in Ms Bs case say that in order for a valid chargeback to be raised when services were not as described (for example that they did not arrive on time), 
the following information needs to be provided with the chargeback:
A description of the complaint in enough detail to allow all parties involved to 
understand it, and specifically addressing the following points:
oThat the cardholder had attempted to contact the merchant to resolve the 
dispute, and the merchant had refused to issue a refund (or not responded).
oThat the services had not met their description or that the merchant had not 
honoured the terms and conditions of the contract with the holder.
Optionally, documentation that supports the cardholders dispute including, but not 
limited to, the original receipt, invoice, contract etc.
Ms Bs completed dispute form appeared to have met these requirements, other than 
perhaps the optional one as she did not provide invoices or similar documentary evidence. 
The rules also go on to say that in Ms Bs set of circumstances, where the only information 
that shed not provided was optional, that further evidence of this type could be submitted 
later, in response to CTs defence of the chargeback. The rules say that a card issuer can 
progress the matter to the next stage, called pre-arbitration, for several reasons which 
include an invalid defence, or where the cardholder can provide additional evidence to 
address a defence.
Conclusions
So where does this leave things? Based on my findings above, my view is that NewDay 
responded inappropriately to a chargeback defence from CT which was clearly invalid. 
NewDays internal notes show that it was aware the defence was deficient.
I think NewDay could, and should, have taken the chargeback process further based on the 
invalid nature of the defence alone. But even if thats not correct, I think its failure to ask 
Ms B for further evidence before taking the decision to stop the chargeback process at that 
point, unfairly prevented her from having the chance to obtain a refund via this route.
This doesnt necessarily mean that NewDay should now refund Ms B  that obviously 
wouldnt be right if she wasnt truly entitled to one. But, having considered the available 
evidence carefully, on balance I am satisfied that she was. This is based on later emails from 
CT indicating the reason they couldnt refund her was because shed already started the 
chargeback process, and extensive media coverage from the time which suggested CT had 
encountered serious problems providing tests kits and results in a timely manner.
It would therefore be fair if NewDay treats Ms B as though it had continued the chargeback 
process and this had come to a successful conclusion. This means it will need to backdate a 
refund of £157.99 on her credit card account, to the date it wrongly re-debited the amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to 
take the following actions:
Refund £157.99 to Ms Bs credit card account, as though this had not been re-
debited on 25 January 2021. Refund any interest, fees or charges Ms B has incurred as a result of the £157.99 
amount being re-debited on 25 January 2021.
If refunding Ms B would mean that a credit balance would have existed on her 
account at any time, pay Ms B 8% simple interest* on any credit balance for the 
period of time that it existed.
If NewDay considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman