DRN-2052290
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about misleading price information on the Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited (HL) website. They say they suffered financial loss when they 
traded based on the website information.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H sold part of their fund holding, based on a price shown on the HL website. But 
when they received the proceeds, the price theyd got was much lower than theyd expected. 
To limit their loss Mr and Mrs H bought back into the fund, but say they were around £13,000 
worse off. 
When they first contacted HL about the price discrepancy, the business suggested there had 
been an issue in updating the website figures on the day in question. But it was later 
established that the timing of Mr and Mrs Hs trade meant they hadnt been affected by the 
issue. 
HL said Mr and Mrs Hs trade had been executed at the correct price. But it nevertheless 
offered them £100 each in recognition that some of its service couldve been better. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt accept HLs offer.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
HLs website wouldve made Mr and Mrs H aware that their trade was subject to Forward 
Pricing  so they wouldve known that the price displayed wouldnt necessarily be the 
trading price.
The investigator also considered it likely that Mr and Mrs H wouldve sold anyway, even if 
theyd known they wouldnt achieve the price displayed.
The investigator was satisfied that the pricing error HL had referred to wasnt relevant to Mr 
and Mrs Hs trade. But he considered the compensation HL had offered was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. They said the health 
warnings HL had referred to since theyd made their complaint werent showing when they 
made their trade in May 2019. They said the website shows a Latest Price alongside a 
Deal Now button. They consider this suggests the trade can be made at the displayed 
price, which they say is misleading. Mr and Mrs H wanted to know when the website health 
warnings were first included on the HL website. 
Mr and Mrs H also mentioned errors in HLs final response letter, which they said brought 
into question the competence of its staff and processes. They asked for their complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I can appreciate how upset and worried Mr and Mrs H must have been when they realised 
the price theyd achieved was much lower than theyd expected. 
Im also aware theyve suffered difficult circumstances during the course of their complaint, 
and I extend my sympathies to them.  
Mr and Mrs H traded based on a price they saw on HLs website. But the price they achieved 
was lower than the price theyd seen. Mr and Mrs H seem to accept that HLs website shows 
a date stamp confirming the date on which the price was applicable. But they say the date 
stamp wasnt showing when they traded.
Mr and Mrs H also seem to accept that HLs website includes information to show that fund 
valuations are subject to forward pricing. This means that when trading instructions are 
given, the price is based on the next valuation point for the fund. 
But again, Mr and Mrs H say this information wasnt available when they traded. They want 
to know when the information that is now available was added to HLs website. Ive noted 
everything Mr and Mrs H have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure exactly what Mr and Mrs H saw when they made 
their trade. But as the investigator has explained, in 2016 this service looked at a complaint 
about information on HLs website. The health warnings that Mr and Mrs H have referred to 
were also relevant in that complaint.
Ive also considered a purchase trade that Mr and Mrs H made in February 2019. HL has 
provided details of the price shown in connection with the trade, and the actual price Mr and 
Mrs H traded at. It seems there was a difference between the two prices. 
On balance, from what Ive seen, I think its likely that the valuation information was available 
when Mr and Mrs H placed the trade in question in May 2019. And in light of their previous 
trading experience, I think its likely they wouldve been aware of the possible difference 
between the indicative trading price and the price achieved. When I take all of these points 
into account, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that the information available to Mr 
and Mrs H when they traded was misleading.
But even if I concluded that the valuation information wasnt readily available on HLs 
website when they traded, I would still have to consider the terms and conditions of Mr and 
Mrs Hs account. These say:
Deals are normally placed with the fund manager by the end of the Working Day following 
receipt of your instruction. The price is determined at the next valuation point for which the 
order is eligible for inclusion, as determined by the fund manager
Mr and Mrs H operate their account on an execution only basis. That means HL doesnt 
give them any advice about their trades, but carries out their instructions in line with the 
account terms. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the trade was executed in line with the terms of the account. Which means Im not persuaded HL did anything wrong.
HL has offered £200 in recognition that some of its service couldve been better. I think thats 
reasonable, but I wont be asking the business to do anything else.    
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman