DRN-4342647
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a contract hire 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (AFS). 
Mrs H has been represented on this complaint, but to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mrs 
H in my decision.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs H acquired a new car through a hire agreement with AFS. Mrs H paid 
an initial rental of £13,871.12, which meant her agreement was over 35 monthly rentals of 
£125.
Mrs H said that around 11 months later the car started to display electrical faults, so she 
brought it to a manufacturer garage who told her there was no fix available. Mrs H said the 
car was displaying intermittent operational issues with the SOS Function, pre sense collision 
mitigation, lane departure warning system, distance warning, main beam assist, adaptive 
light fault and cruise control. 
In October 2022 Mrs H complained to AFS about the issues she was having. In November 
2022 AFS issued their final response where they upheld the complaint and confirmed the 
issues were related to the model of car shed acquired. In their final response AFS gave Mrs 
H the following three options to resolve her complaint; 1. keep the car and wait for the 
software update and receive a refund of £900, with a review of the outcome in 12 months if 
the update isnt available, 2. reject the car and receive a refund for the initial rental, 3. order 
another vehicle and keep the current car until the new one is ready, then transfer over to a 
new agreement.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the options AFS proposed, so she referred her complaint to our 
service for investigation. Mrs H believed what AFS offered would leave her financially worse 
off, so she preferred to have a full refund or a replacement car.
In April 2023, AFS shared their business file on the complaint and at the same time advised 
us that Mrs Hs car had received the software update that it required; however, that they 
were still willing to honour a reimbursement of £900. 
In June 2023, Mrs H told our investigator that her car was returned to the dealership for 
repairs. Mrs H said the original issues were persisting and provided images of the faults on 
the dashboard. She also advised of further problems with an intermittent unlocking and 
starting fault. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Mrs 
Hs complaint should be upheld. The investigator concluded that as the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality the fairest outcome was a rejection of it. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators view. She confirmed that she wouldnt be going ahead 
with a rejection of the car due to her concerns about being at a financial disadvantage. 
However, as our investigators view remained unchanged Mrs H asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. AFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that AFS supplied Mrs H with a brand-new car. With this in mind, I think 
its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect there to be no issues with the car, and 
that it could be used free from any problems for a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided, Im persuaded there is a fault with the car. Mrs H has given 
detailed explanations and provided images of what the issues are. A pending software 
update to address those issues have been confirmed by AFS. AFS have also confirmed their 
attempt at fixing the issues, and their inability at present to resolve the current problems 
reported by Mrs H.
Neither party has disputed whether the car is of satisfactory quality. AFS has accepted our 
investigators recommendation to reject the car, and Mrs H has made it clear in her 
correspondence that she believes the car wasnt supplied in a condition that was of 
satisfactory quality. 
Having reviewed the information on file, and given the problems that occurred were in less 
than 12 months and on a brand-new vehicle, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mrs H.Having considered the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, and that 
neither party has disputed this, Ive focussed my decision on what the fairest outcome would 
be to resolve the complaint.  
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform:
(3) If the goods do not conform to the contract because of a breach of any of the 
terms described in sections 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14, or if they do not conform to the 
contract under section 16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them and 
when they are available) are 
(a) the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22); 
(b) the right to repair or replacement (section 23); and 
(c) the right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24). 
In their final response, AFS gave Mrs H three options to resolve her complaint. Option one 
was a choice for a repair and a refund of £900 which in effect is considered a price reduction 
to account for the continued problems with it. Guidance notes under the CRA says:
If the consumer opts to keep the goods and require a reduction in price the question of what 
an appropriate amount is will depend on the circumstances and the remaining functionality of 
the goods. 
Im satisfied this was a reasonable offering under the CRA. However, as the goods, in this 
case being a vehicle, was purchased through a finance agreement, rather than in one 
transaction, Mrs H in effect was purchasing the car over the term of the agreement. As such 
a fair calculation of a price reduction would have to take into consideration the future fix of 
the issue which in this instance cant be fairly determined. 
In addition, Mrs H has also advised in her most recent correspondence with the investigator, 
that the car has been brought into the garage in October 2023, so a further attempt could be 
made at fixing the issues.  
Option two was to reject the car. Where goods do not conform to the contract, the CRA 
makes no provisions for providing a like for like contract, for example for another vehicle, so 
Im satisfied this option was also in line with the remedies under the CRA. And option 3 
enabled Mrs H to remain mobile whilst awaiting another vehicle, and then entering into a 
new contract. I think this was also reasonable in the circumstances. 
In her emails to the investigator Mrs H pointed out that if she was to reject the car shed be 
at a financial disadvantage. A quotation for new car provided by Mrs H shows a monthly 
repayment of £399 over the same term. So, Mrs H believes a fair resolution would include:
1. Compensation to recognise the problems shes experienced 
2. AFS to restart the agreement on the same terms with a new car that is free from any 
fault; or 
3. A full refund with AFS buying the vehicle backBesides a degree of compensation to acknowledge any distress and inconvenience caused, 
I dont think the options given by Mrs H are completely reasonable in the circumstances. For 
example, the CRA makes no expectations of a business to amend the payment terms of 
future purchases based on goods that did not confirm to a previous contract. And a full 
refund doesnt take into consideration the usage Mrs H has had of the car (albeit impaired to 
some extent).
I acknowledge Mrs Hs strength of feeling that shell be financially worse off if she decided to 
acquire the same model of car on a new agreement. However, whilst Im not disputing what 
Mrs H says, my decision concerns what has actually happened rather than what might 
happened under future circumstances. I dont think its fair to instruct AFS to compensate 
Mrs H for something which may occur. In the circumstances I think its reasonable to expect 
that Mrs H is put in the position she would have been had she not entered into the contract 
as far as is reasonably possible. 
By offering a rejection of the car, Mrs H will be in a position where, having made deductions 
for usage, shed be free to acquire a different vehicle, without any record of the agreement 
on her credit file.
All things considered, Im satisfied in the circumstances of this complaint that its most 
appropriate to instruct AFS to facilitate a rejection of the car. 
Putting things right
As Ive concluded that Mrs Hs car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her, 
and that a rejection of the car is the fairest and most appropriate remedy in the 
circumstances; Ill be instructing AFS to end the agreement, remove it from Mrs Hs credit 
file, ensuring no adverse information exists in relation to it. 
AFS should collect the car at no cost to Mrs H, refund to Mrs H the unused portion of her 
deposit and compensate Mrs H for the impaired usage shes had of the car, as it hasnt been 
performing as it should have. Im in agreement with the investigator that a 10%refund is 
reasonable for the impact this would have had on Mrs H. 
Ill be instructing AFS to refund 10% of the monthly repayments from July 2022 when the 
fault first occurred to the date of settlement. This is in addition to 10% of the pro rata 
proportion of the initial rental for the same period. 
I think its fair to say that Mrs H has been unreasonably inconvenienced by the inherent 
issues with her car, for example with having to go back and forth to the dealership and being 
concerned that the safety features of the car might not have been functioning properly. All 
things considered, Im satisfied that £400 in compensation is a fair recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused here. So, Ill be instructing AFS to pay this to Mrs H.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to:
collect the car at no additional cost to Mrs H
end the hire agreement and remove it from Mrs Hs credit file
refund to Mrs H on a pro rata basis the unused portion of the initial rental
refund to Mrs H 10% of the monthly rentals from July 2022, and 10% of the pro rata proportion of the initial rental for the same period
pay Mrs H £400 in compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should pay 
8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part 
of my award, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman