DRN-2349841
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) was misrepresented to him. He says he was told it was 
interest free, but it isnt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that finance providers are liable for 
what the dealership say when negotiating the credit agreement.
I understand Mr Ss testimony that he was told he would not be paying any interest on the 
finance he agreed to. But Im not persuaded that was most likely to have been the case 
because:
the dealership dispute his version of events; 
an Alternative Finance Disclaimer was signed by Mr S on 19 May 2019. That 
disclaimer very clearly explained that interest would be charged, and the car wasnt 
being financed through the advertised 0% deal;
the Purchase Summary Document signed by Mr S on 31 May 2019 sets out the 
amount of interest to be paid;
the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement signed by Mr S on 19 May 2019 also explains the 
amount and rate of interest to be charged on the agreement;
On balance, I am persuaded there is more evidence to suggest Mr S had been made aware 
of the interest that was to be charged, than not. I dont therefore think it would be reasonable 
to ask Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman