DRN-3961189
The complaint
Ms B complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a revolving credit 
catalogue account she couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms B applied for and was accepted for a credit account with Next. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £300. The credit limit was later increased; in June 2019 to 
£600, in October 2019 to £1,500 and then in February 2020 to £2,000. There were also 
reductions to the available credit made in April and July 2020 after Ms Bs financial 
situation worsened.  
Ms B complains that Next shouldnt have opened the account for her because it wasnt 
affordable and it ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial 
circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Bs complaint is that Next made credit available that was unaffordable for her. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Ms B has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question  that is, when the card was granted and for 
each occasion when the credit limit was increased. Next has explained that it carried out a 
credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. It 
also said that it continued to review Ms Bs account use and ability to afford the level of 
credit shed been given. Its possible that Next failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Ms B with credit. But even if that were the case, I dont think better enquiries would 
have caused Next to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable.  
I say this because the initial credit limit, and subsequent credit increases, were relatively 
modest. And subsequently, as each credit increase was granted, the account was largely 
well managed and Ms B was not using the full credit limit available to her. I note that she 
missed only one of her scheduled payments. Ive also seen from the credit file that Ms B 
has provided that at the time of the credit opening there were no adverse markings. 
So, taking into account everything Ive seen, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
a more thorough affordability check would have led Next to think that the credit it provided 
Ms B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms B was managing her 
account or what Next could see of the way she was managing it or other credit she was 
using elsewhere ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
It follows that I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman