DRN-2773169
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) didnt add additional shares resulting 
from a share split, to his account when it should have done so he was unable to sell the 
additional shares at the price he would have done.
What happened
Mr P held 200 shares in Tesla in 2020 when it decided on a stock split that meant 
shareholders would get four shares for every one already owned, meaning that after the 
stock split Mr P would have 1000 shares. The stock split took place after close of business 
on 28 August 2020, but the additional 800 shares werent added to Mr Ps account until 4 
September 2020 after markets had closed. 
By the time Mr P could trade the additional 800 shares there had been a fall in the price of 
Tesla stock.
Mr P complained to HSBC, but it didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that as a nominee 
service there were further steps it had to take before allocating shares to clients. It said it 
had to reconcile the shares once received to ensure it had the right amount before allocating 
them to individual client accounts.
Mr P referred his complaint to us and one our investigators considered it but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said that as a nominee company HSBC will have received 
the additional shares in bulk and that HSBC would need to reconcile the shares to make 
sure it had received the correct number of shares for all clients. He said that in the 
circumstances he couldnt say HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said he had the shares in his account on 31 
August 2020 and HSBC just needed to multiply these by five which would have taken one 
second. He said he should have been able to trade the same day. He said as he wasnt 
trading on 31 August 2020 there was no need to reconcile anything and that those 
customers who werent dealing were treated unfairly as they were blocked from trading for a 
week.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I think it is important to make clear that my role is to make a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the evidence available to me. Where there is a dispute between the parties my 
findings are based on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not. In short, to 
uphold this complaint I would need to have seen some persuasive evidence that HSBC had 
done something wrong that caused a delay in the new shares being available to Mr P to 
trade. I havent seen such evidence in this case.
Mr P will no doubt be aware that the consequence of his shares being held by HSBC as 
nominee is that it is the legal owner of the shares and he is the beneficial owner. What this 
means in simple terms is that when something like a stock split happens HSBC will be 
provided with an overall number of shares based on what the nominee company holds. It is 
then for the nominee company to allocate the right number of shares to each client from the 
overall amount it is provided. 
Tesla announced a five for one stock split on 11 August 2020 with distribution to be made 
after close of trading on 28 August 2020 and trading on a stock split adjusted basis 
beginning on 31 August 2020.
HSBC has provided a copy of the notification provided to clients about new shares resulting 
from the stock split which stated that these were due to be paid on or around 2 September 
2020 and that:
Well do our best to apply the new shares to your account as soon as possible after this 
date.
Although the notification made clear the new shares wouldnt be available until after 2 
September 2020 Mr P said he tried to trade from the 31 August 2020 and he also contacted 
HSBC on the 2 September saying the stock split hadnt been applied to his account and 
asking when this was going to be corrected.
HSBC responded to his query the following day and repeated that the new shares had been 
due to be paid to HSBC on or around 2 September 2020, and it confirmed these had been 
received by it. It explained that it needed to carry out relevant checks and reconcile the stock 
for shareholders and that he should expect to receive the stock within the next 24 to 48 
hours. The additional 800 shares were put in Mr Ps account on 4 September 2020, so within 
the timescale indicated in its response of 3 September 2020. 
HSBC has explained that once shares are received by it as the nominee it needs to 
reconcile the shares to ensure it has the correct amount before allocating shares to 
individual customer accounts.
As I have already explained above, HSBC is a nominee and as such will have received the 
total amount of new shares for all its clients based on what shares were held by it at the 
relevant date  the press release from Tesla and the notification from HSBC shows that date 
was 21 August 2020. 
What HSBC then needed to do, after it had received the new shares, was make sure it had 
received the correct number of shares and ensure it split these between individual clients 
based on their holdings as at the relevant date. This is something that takes time and I have 
seen no persuasive evidence that it took HSBC an unreasonable time to credit Mr Ps 
account with the new shares. 
Mr P argues that it is a simple matter of looking at the shares already held in his account on 
31 August 2020 and multiplying that by five. This assumes that there were no actual shares 
involved and all that is required is a simple mathematical exercise. Mr P has provided no 
evidence that support his argument and based on the information I have seen Im satisfied 
that HSBC had to receive the shares and then reconcile these once received.
Mr P has also suggested that as he wasnt trading on 31 August 2020 there was no need to 
reconcile anything and that those who werent dealing were treated unfairly. I have been 
provided with no evidence that supports what Mr P has said. The process that HSBC had to follow had to be applied to all its clients and I have seen no evidence that it treated some 
clients differently. 
The stock split was based on stock held as at 21 August 2020 so any trading on 31 August 
2020 would have had no bearing on what clients received as a result of the stock split, or on 
the reconciliation process that HSBC had to carry out. 
In any case, HSBC would still need to determine it had the right amount of total new shares 
before it could allocate shares from that total to each client based on what they were entitled 
to. Just because Mr P wasnt trading doesnt mean it could simply allocate him shares that 
he was due without going through reconciliation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman