DRN-2685151
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled a 
chargeback she requested.
What happened
On 18 March 2019, Miss K paid for a package holiday with monies debited from her current 
account. She was due to travel abroad for 10 days on 17 June 2019. Miss K had been 
informed by the company that she booked with, that shed receive her tickets 7-10 days 
before departure  but this didnt happen. 
On 13 June, Miss K contacted Nationwide to advise that she hadnt received the tickets and 
the company werent responding to attempts to contact them. Nationwide advised that at this 
stage, they couldnt raise a dispute or a chargeback until after Miss Ks planned day of 
departure. 
Miss K said that she contacted the hotel and was told that there was no reservation in her 
name. She also said that the airline confirmed she wasnt on their passenger list. Miss K 
raised the matter with Action Fraud as she was concerned that she may have fallen victim to 
a scam.
On 14 June, Miss K received her e-tickets and booking confirmation for the holiday but she 
was concerned that the flight times had changed since her original booking (although the 
dates remained the same), the holiday appeared to have been paid for by one of the 
company directors on 14 June and she was struggling to get through to the company via 
telephone or online  amongst other things. She notified Nationwide of this. 
Miss K again went to Action Fraud for advice about whether she should proceed with her trip 
in light of her concerns. Based on what she expressed, Action Fraud advised her not to 
travel or maintain contact with the company. And so, Miss K didnt travel as intended and 
asked Nationwide to raise a chargeback with Visa; it initially said it would do so under the 
category of goods and services not received.
Nationwide says that it asked Miss K for more information in order to assess the chargeback 
request, but because Miss K didnt provide this and because it appeared the trip was able to 
go ahead, it says it fairly declined to raise it. Miss K disagreed and said that she provided all 
the material evidence required for a chargeback to be raised and whilst the flights were 
available, the accommodation wasnt so the package holiday which shed bought isnt what 
was made available to her. 
Further, Miss K said that Nationwide didnt treat her sympathetically knowing her wider 
personal circumstances and everything shed been through. Nationwide accepted that it 
didnt treat Miss K as it should have done and in recognition of this, it paid her £100 as 
compensation. But Miss K didnt feel that this went far enough.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss K, and she didnt uphold the majority of her 
complaint points in relation to the chargeback. She did however, feel that Nationwide didnt 
treat Miss K sympathetically and so recommended a further award of £50 in recognition of 
this. Nationwide agreed to pay this. But Miss K disagreed with our investigator and so the 
case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that whilst I have read all of the available evidence in this case 
 including the detailed representations of both parties - I have kept my decision to the 
material points which I consider to be relevant. I thank both parties for all the evidence 
theyve submitted in this case. 
Having considered all the evidence carefully, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
investigator and largely for the same reasons. I know that this will disappoint Miss K but Id 
like to explain why Ive reached this conclusion. 
At the outset, Id like to express my sincere sympathy for everything that Miss K has been 
through with her family bereavement and her own health. Its clear to me from reading her 
testimony and all of the evidence in this case, that shes been through a lot and booked the 
trip which is the subject of this decision, as a means of getting some respite only for it to 
have become a source of stress. I want to acknowledge this and let Miss K know that I 
appreciate it must have taken a lot for her mentally and emotionally to pursue this complaint. 
Miss K says that Nationwide didnt raise a chargeback as it should have done. A 
chargeback is the process used to settle disputes between card issuers and merchants. It is 
the card scheme, that runs and sets the rules for the chargeback scheme. 
Generally, before the card issuer, in this case Nationwide, instigates a chargeback request, it 
would normally want to see that the cardholder, Miss K, had tried to resolve the matter with 
the merchant, the travel company, first. This is usually a requirement of the card scheme 
rules  and I think this is a fair approach to take given that the cardholder and the merchant 
can often sort things out between them without the need to involve the bank. 
Looking at whats happened in this case, I can see that Nationwide requested proof from 
Miss K that she didnt have the flights and accommodation which she had booked in March 
2019. On this basis, it could then proceed with a chargeback request on the basis that the 
goods and services promised werent received by Miss K.
Miss K told Nationwides team that handles disputes and chargebacks that: 
She acknowledges the outbound flight was the original flight she was booked on but 
shes concerned because she didnt receive her tickets within the timeframe she was 
told she would 
Shes had difficulty corresponding with the company whom she arranged the trip with
The airline told her that she wasnt on the passenger list for the outbound flight
The flights only appear to be purchased after she registered a complaint about the 
company with it 
The hotel told her they didnt have a reservation for her 
She purchased a package holiday and it didnt seem to her that this is what she was 
getting so she chose not to travelIve no question about Miss K having legitimate concerns about the way matters unfolded 
here and especially with regard to the advice she was being given by the relevant fraud 
agencies at the time (which Ive seen). 
Miss K says that she rang the airline on 12 June and was informed that she wasnt on the 
passenger list; and given that the booking confirmation was only sent to Miss K on 14 June, 
Im minded to believe her. However, the reason for the chargeback that Miss K wanted to 
pursue was goods and services not received. But for all intents and purposes, it would 
appear from the booking information Ive seen that both the flights and hotel accommodation 
were arranged for Miss K to avail herself of on 17 June. 
I agree that the company didnt send her this information 7-10 days before departure 
nonetheless, the trip which she intended to make was available to her. I understand that 
Miss K was concerned about the legitimacy of the information she was presented with 
coupled with the advice from Action Fraud which informed her decision not to take the trip. 
But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for this. Nor can I say that Nationwide has acted 
unreasonably in saying that the goods and services which Miss K had paid for, werent 
received as for all intents and purposes, it would appear that they were - which is why it 
declined to process the chargeback request. For this reason, Im satisfied that Nationwide 
acted reasonably in not instigating a chargeback request.
Putting things right
I wont list the various aspects of Nationwides customer service which left Miss K feeling like 
she wasnt valued as a customer and which caused her additional stress  this has been 
adequately detailed in our investigators assessment and I agree that Nationwides service 
fell short of what wed usually expect to see. Importantly, Nationwide acknowledges the 
shortcomings in the service it provided to Miss K and awarded her £100 in recognition of 
this. Our investigator felt that a further sum of £50 was justified on the basis that Miss K left a 
call with one of Nationwides representatives distressed after receiving incorrect advice from 
them  and I agree with this. Overall, I consider that a payment of £150 feels fair and 
reasonable as compensation for the poor customer service Miss K received from 
Nationwide. 
In summary, ultimately, the reason the charge back was declined was because the trip which 
Miss K had booked was available to her  irrespective of the fact that this wasnt within 7-10 
days of departure. And I dont think it was unreasonable of Nationwide to decline to proceed 
with the chargeback request in light of this. I agree that Nationwide could have provided a 
better customer service at times and Im satisfied that £150 compensation goes some way 
towards acknowledging this so I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more for Miss K. 
Im sorry if this disappoints Miss K but I hope Ive explained why Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Nationwide Building Society  and I therefore require it to:
Pay Miss K £150 for distress and inconvenience caused to her (£100 of this having 
already been paid to her).
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman