DRN-3652793
The complaint
Mr W complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim on his 
Buildmark building warranty policy, for fire safety issues.
What happened
Mr W owns a new-build apartment thats covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. In 
2020, the managing agent commissioned a fire safety report. The report recommended 
remedial work to areas of Mr Ws building. The report set out the following:
- The storey height of Mr Ws building is under 18m, so the functional requirement at 
the time of construction was: The external walls of the building shall adequately 
resist the spread of fire over the walls. 
- Had the building been over 18m, the requirement would have been B-s3, d2 above 
18m and C-s3, d2 below 18m. Both of these are lesser standards than the current 
guidance, that the external cladding should achieve at least A2-s1, d0.
- The metal cladding system on Mr Ws building is one of aluminium composite panels 
with combustible insulation behind. The current guidance requires the removal of the 
panels and replacement with a material that achieves at least Euroclass A2, s1-d0. 
The insulation may also require replacement.
- The brick and blockwork are non-combustible materials. As will be the render coat, 
unless acrylic. The insulation provided to the cavities is combustible, however, this 
was an acceptable detail at the time of construction. 
- The timber cladding on Mr Ws building is also combustible, with untreated timber 
generally achieving Euroclass D at best. With appropriate treatment, timber may 
achieve Euroclass B. Treating the timber cladding should meet the functional 
requirement that applied at the time of construction. Alternatively, the timber 
cladding could be replaced with a material that achieves Euroclass A2.
- The timber cladding lacks cavity barriers behind the void. This isnt in accordance 
with the guidance, and barriers should be provided.
- Balconies are formed from either the building as walkways or from a steel frame with 
timber decking. The latter construction doesnt comply with current guidance, which 
recently clarified that balconies form part of the external envelope of the building. 
So, to comply with current regulations they should be of limited combustibility or 
better.
- Treated timber can achieve Euroclass B-s3, d2. The open timber decked balconies 
at Mr Ws building could allow fire spread between floors and over external walls, 
therefore, they didnt meet the functional requirement that applied at the time of 
construction for buildings under 18m. 
The managing agent provided the report to NHBC, with the intention of recovering the cost 
of the remedial works via the leaseholders building warranty policies. However, NHBC 
declined the claim.
The relevant part of the policy is section 4, which covers the builders non-compliance with 
certain building regulations that applied at the time of construction, if causing a present or 
imminent danger.
NHBC explained to the managing agent the building complied with the building regulations 
that applied at the time of construction. NHBC set out the following:
- Aluminium composite panels  at the time of construction, for buildings with a storey 
height under 18m, there were no restrictions on the combustibility of the insulation 
within the external walls.
- Timber cladding  at the time of construction, timber greater than 9mm thick and 
installed as an external surface was allowed (without any treatment) to areas of 
external wall that are below 18m.
- Balconies (timber decking)  at the time of construction, balconies werent 
considered part of the external wall or external surface, so none of the 
recommendations or provisions applied.
- Render system and brick system  no defects were identified in the managing 
agents report.
- Cavity barriers (aluminium composite panels, the render system, and the brick 
system)  no defects were identified in the managing agents report.
- Cavity barriers (timber cladding)  at the time of construction, for buildings with a 
storey height under 18m, there was an exemption for the cavities formed behind 
cladding, providing they dont contain combustible insulation. The timber clad 
external wall constructions of Mr Ws building dont have any combustible 
insulation behind them.
Mr W complained NHBC was referring to outdated building regulations. However, NHBC 
noted it had assessed the claim in-line with the policy terms, and correctly applied the 
building regulations that applied at the time of construction. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint, but he didnt think it should be 
upheld. He noted the following:
- The Building Regulations 2000 applied at the time of construction. The fire safety 
requirements and supporting guidance are found in Approved Document B (the 
March 2003 edition).
- Mr Ws building is less than 18m tall and isnt within 1,000mm of a boundary.
- At the time of construction, the following requirement applied: The external walls of 
the building shall adequately resist the spread of fire over the walls and from one 
building to another, having regard to the height, use and position of the building.- Within the guidance that supports the above requirement, there were no provisions or 
requirements for the materials used in the external walls of a residential building less 
than 18m tall that isnt within 1,000mm of a boundary. There were also no provisions 
in place for balconies.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators outcome, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. Mr W has made the following points:
- As per the fire safety report commissioned by the managing agent, the aluminium 
composite cladding and insulation are combustible, as are the timber fixtures and 
timber balconies. The balconies could allow fire to spread between the floors and 
over the external walls of the building. Therefore, its clear there are external wall 
materials that dont resist the spread of fire as required by the applicable building 
regulations.
- The guidance within Approved Document B also sets out the periods of minimum fire 
resistance. Mr W noted NHBC hadnt provided proof of the fire resistance tests 
referred to within the guidance.
- Approved Document B also refers to Regulation 7, which hasnt been considered. 
Regulation 7 required building work to be carried out with adequate and proper 
materials which are appropriate for the circumstances for which they are used. 
Materials should meet the approved British or European testing standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is generally reliant on the technical expertise of others. Where theres a dispute 
about defects and damage, or building regulations, we consider the submissions of the two 
parties to determine what, on balance, we are more persuaded by. We tend to place more 
weight on those considered to be industry experts. Therefore, its not my role to determine 
whether building regulations were breached by the original builder, but rather, its to 
consider whose arguments and evidence I find more persuasive.
Whilst Mr W would like the current building regulations to be considered, the section 4 policy 
terms are clear. There must be a present or imminent danger due to a breach of the fire 
safety building regulations that applied at the time of construction.
The Approved Document B that applied at the time the building was constructed states the 
following requirement in relation to external fire spread: The external walls of the building 
shall adequately resist the spread of fire over the walls and from one building to another, 
having regard to the height, use and position of the building. 
The Approved Document then provides guidance on how that requirement can be achieved. 
The following information is provided in relation to the arguments that have been made 
during the claim and Mr Ws complaint:
Fire resistance:
- The fire resistance limits depend on the distance of the external wall from the 
relevant boundary. So, its possible for some or all of the walls to have no fire 
resistance, except for any parts that are load bearing.- If the external wall of a building is 1,000mm or more from the relevant boundary, a 
reduced standard of fire resistance is accepted in most cases and the wall only 
needs fire resistance from the inside. The relevant fire resistance periods are 
specified in Appendix A, via Table A1 and Table A2.
External surfaces:
- Provisions are made to restrict the combustibility of externals walls that are less than 
1,000mm from the relevant boundary, or externals walls of high buildings. The 
provisions are specified in Diagram 40.
- The external surfaces of walls should meet the provisions in Diagram 40. As should 
the surface of the outer cladding which faces the cavity (of a wall of rainscreen 
construction).
External wall construction:
- The use of combustible materials for cladding framework, or the use of combustible 
thermal insulation as an overcladding or in ventilated cavities, may present a risk of 
fire spread in tall buildings even if the provisions in Diagram 40 have been satisfied. 
In a building with a storey 18m or more above ground level, the insulation material 
used in ventilated cavities in the external wall construction should be of limited 
combustibility.
In respect of fire resistance, Ive not seen any expert opinion that the building elements dont 
meet their minimum fire resistance periods. The Table A1 and Table A2 information explains 
if the external wall is 1,000mm or more from the relevant boundary, theres only a minimum 
fire resistance period in relation to fire exposure from inside the building to outside. Whilst 
the managing agents report raises issues with the combustibility of the external walls, it 
doesnt raise an issue with the spread of fire from inside to outside (which may be 
adequately resisted by internal construction details and materials).
Mr W would like NHBC to provide evidence of the fire resistance tests, which he says NHBC 
should have undertaken at the time of construction. I dont know whether NHBC would have 
been required to undertake such tests whilst providing the building control function for the 
building, or whether the builder would have been required to use materials that had been 
certified as compliant with the national and/or European tests. But in any event, given no 
expert opinion has been provided that supports the fire resistance requirements werent 
complied with, I dont require any information from NHBC on this point.
In respect of the external surface classification, Diagram 40 provides five building scenarios, 
with reference to their use, height, and distance from the relevant boundary. The managing 
agents report explains had the building been over 18m, the requirement would have been 
B-s3, d2 above 18m and C-s3, d2 below 18m. That requirement was only for residential 
buildings above 18m which were 1,000mm or more from the relevant boundary. Whilst for 
residential buildings less than 1,000mm from the relevant boundary, irrespective of height, 
the requirement was B-s3, d2. Therefore, it can be inferred from the report that Mr Ws 
building is 1,000mm or more from the relevant boundary, which is consistent with what 
NHBC says.
So, its my understanding that Mr Ws building is a residential building with a building height 
less than 18m, and its external walls are 1,000mm or more from the relevant boundary. In 
this Diagram 40 scenario, there was no provision (i.e. requirements) for the external 
surfaces or walls.For context, and as noted above, in respect of the other residential building scenarios, the 
external wall surfaces had to meet various classifications, such as B-s3, d2 or C-s3, d2, 
depending on a combination of the buildings height and distance from the relevant 
boundary.
The managing agents report acknowledges the building is under 18m, and in respect of the 
external surfaces, it only refers to requirements that applied to taller buildings. So, I find the 
expert opinion to be consistent in respect of the aluminium composite panels and timber 
cladding not breaching the building regulations that applied at the time of construction.
That said, the managing agents report also refers to the functional requirement of adequate 
resistance to the spread of fire over external walls, and it explains treating the timber should 
meet this requirement. Whilst this implies the timber cladding didnt comply with the building 
regulations that applied at the time of construction, I havent seen the timber had to be 
treated.
As explained above, Diagram 40 confirms for residential buildings under 18m, where the 
relevant boundary is 1,000mm or more from the external wall, the external wall surfaces 
arent required to meet a classification. But rather, there were no provisions for the
external walls or surfaces. 
Furthermore, the Diagram 40 scenarios explain that for a residential building taller than 18m, 
where the relevant boundary is 1,000mm or more from the external wall, the wall up to 18m 
above ground had to meet classification C-s3, d2, or timber cladding at least 9mm thick is 
acceptable. NHBC says the timber cladding on Mr Ws building meets this minimum 
thickness, even though there was no such requirement for buildings below 18m.
Turning to the balconies, the managing agents report points towards the timber decking not 
complying with current guidance. But the report again refers to the functional requirement 
that applied at the time of construction, i.e. adequate resistance to the spread of fire. The 
report also notes treated timber can achieve B-s3, d2. However, even if balconies were 
considered part of the external surfaces or walls, the Diagram 40 scenarios explain the 
B-s3, d2 classification only applied to a residential building under 18m thats less than 
1,000mm from the relevant boundary.
NHBC also says the Building Regulations 2000 make no reference to balconies in relation to 
fire safety, and the Approved Document B that applied at the time of construction makes no 
reference to external balconies except where they provide a route of escape. NHBC says 
none of the balconies at Mr Ws building provide a route of escape. Having reviewed the 
information referred to, I havent seen anything that contradicts what NHBC says. 
In respect of the external wall construction, the managing agents report notes the presence 
of combustible insulation behind the aluminium composite panels. However, the Approved 
Document that applied at the time of construction only refers to the combustibility of 
insulation in the ventilated cavities of the external walls of buildings over 18m.
In addition to the above requirement for external fire spread, the Approved Document B that 
applied at the time of construction states the following requirement in relation to internal fire 
spread (structure): The building shall be designed and constructed so that the unseen 
spread of fire and smoke within concealed spaces in its structure and fabric is inhibited. 
The Approved Document then provides guidance on how that requirement can be achieved, 
including information about cavity barriers.In respect of the lack of cavity barriers within the voids behind the timber cladding, NHBC 
says for buildings under 18m, there was an exemption for cavities formed behind cladding if 
they dont contain combustible insulation. Ive reviewed the Approved Document that applied 
at the time of construction, and Ive seen this information is set out in the section covering 
concealed spaces (cavities). NHBC says theres no combustible insulation behind the 
timber cladding. The managing agents report doesnt comment on whether theres 
combustible insulation behind the timber cladding, so I accept what NHBC says. 
Mr W has also briefly referred to Regulation 7. However, Ive not seen any expert opinion 
that suggests the requirements of Regulation 7, or the requirements within its Approved 
Document, were breached. Equally, Mr W hasnt referred to anything specific. As such, 
there are no arguments for me to consider in relation to Regulation 7.
So, having reviewed the arguments of both parties and the available information, Im not 
persuaded NHBC unfairly declined the claim. 
Notably, the managing agent appointed a fire safety expert, and NHBC provided a response 
to the experts findings. I havent seen that the managing agents appointed expert disputed 
NHBCs response, which I would reasonably expect them to do so if they disagreed with 
NHBCs interpretation of the building regulations that applied at the time of construction.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman