DRN-2706600
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cigna Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV wont pay for him to
have cochlear implant surgery under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr M began to suffer from acute sensorineural deafness (ASD) in his right
ear, together with severe tinnitus. He was initially treated with oral steroids, which werent
successful in resolving Mr Ms conditions. He made a claim on his private medical insurance
policy for the costs of treating both the ASD and tinnitus. Cigna covered the costs of steroid
injections and cognitive behavioural therapy to help Mr M cope with the tinnitus.
As Mr Ms symptoms didnt improve, he was referred to a specialist team in April 2019. He
underwent assessment and ultimately, his consultant recommended that he should have
undergo a cochlear implant in his right ear. Mr M asked Cigna to cover the costs of this
surgery.
Cigna turned down Mr Ms claim. It said that the implant was intended to treat Mr Ms
deafness, which it now considered to be a chronic condition. It said the policy specifically
excluded chronic conditions from cover. And it added that it considered the implant to be an
appliance  which was also something the policy didnt cover.
Mr M was unhappy with Cignas decision. He considered his hearing loss was an acute
condition with long-term effects, which could be corrected by the implant. And he stated that
a cochlear implant wasnt an appliance  he considered it to be a surgical implant. He asked
us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Cigna should pay Mr Ms claim. She didnt think that
the implant could fairly be considered to be an appliance, as part of it is surgically implanted.
But she looked at how Cigna had defined what it meant by a chronic condition, which
included conditions with no known cure. She noted from information Mr M had provided
about the implant that while it was likely to improve his ability to hear sounds, it wouldnt cure
his ASD. She explained that Cigna had paid out for Mr Ms initial treatment because he didnt
have a diagnosis at the point he first got in touch with it. And it had paid for the injections and
CBT to try and stabilise his condition. Once it learned thered been no improvement, it
deemed his ASD to be chronic. The investigator thought itd been fair for Cigna to reach this
conclusion and to turn down Mr Ms claim.
Mr M disagreed. He maintained that he had an acute condition which had caused lasting
damage. He stated the cochlear implant was to treat the catastrophic tinnitus hed suffered,
rather than ASD, which was reflected in the medical evidence his consultant had provided.
He told us that his hearing loss was not a problem to him  the real issue were the
symptoms of tinnitus, which could be greatly ameliorated by the implant. Mr M also queried
why Cigna would cover a hip replacement, which was the ultimate result of chronic
osteoarthritis, but wouldnt cover his claim, which he considered to be analogous. Mr M
provided us with evidence from a tinnitus charity which stated that tinnitus is understood to
be a neurological condition associated with a degree of hearing loss.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I felt it was fair for CIGNA to turn down Mr Ms claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr
Ms policy and the available medical evidence to decide whether Cigna handled Mr Ms claim
fairly.
Its important I explain that Im not a medical professional, nor a medical expert. So in
making my decision, I need to carefully weigh up the available expert medical evidence from
both Cigna and Mr Ms treating doctors and decide whether Cigna has applied its policy
terms fairly.
There are two issues here for me to consider. First, is it fair for Cigna to consider the
cochlear implant to be an appliance? And is it fair for Cigna to conclude that Mr Ms
conditions are chronic?
Is it fair for Cigna to consider the cochlear implant to be an appliance?
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, as this forms the basis of his
contract with Cigna. The policy includes a section called What isnt covered by this plan?
One of the listed exclusions states:
Expenses for appliances (including spectacles and hearing aids) which dont fall within our
definition of surgical appliance.
A surgical appliance is defined as: Surgical appliance - An artificial limb, body part or device
inserted during surgery.
Cigna considers the implant to be akin to a hearing aid. Ive considered this. But Mr M has
provided a medical journal article which explains the clinical reasoning for a cochlear implant
and also how its inserted. The article states that cochlear implants are fundamentally
distinct from hearing aids and that suitable candidates for cochlear implants usually receive
little to no benefit from hearing aids. This evidence would suggest that a cochlear implant
isnt necessarily comparable to a hearing aid.
The article also explains how the implant is inserted. It seems the procedure is carried out
under anaesthetic and the implant itself is inserted into the cochlea. So on this basis, I think
its fair to conclude that a cochlear implant is a device which is inserted during surgery. This
means I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Cigna to consider the implant to be an
appliance akin to a hearing aid.
Is it fair for Cigna to consider Mr Ms conditions to be chronic?
Again, Ive carefully considered the policy terms. The policy excludes cover for: treatment,
supervision or care for a chronic condition (whether physical or mental).
Cigna has defined what it means by a chronic condition in its policy terms and conditions. It
says:
Chronic - a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
checkups,
and/or tests;it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms;
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it;
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure; it comes back or is likely to come back.
Cigna says that the cochlear implant would be used to treat Mr Ms ASD, which it considers
to be a chronic condition, because it has no known cure. While it covered Mr Ms initial
injections and CBT to try and stabilise his condition, it didnt agree to cover his long-term
treatment. The investigator felt it was fair for Cigna to reach this conclusion based on NHS
information which stated that a cochlear implant wouldnt restore hearing.
Mr M says that the cochlear implant was actually proposed to treat his severe tinnitus. So
Ive looked closely at the letter from Mr Ms treating consultant, which explained his
treatment plan. It says:
After thorough evaluations and MDT assessment we have considered the possibility
of a BAHA, but this will be of limited value and will not help resolve the tinnitus. A unilateral
surgical cochlear implant to replace that damaged organs function will help
mitigate his severe disability with tinnitus and is by far the best treatment option.
The letter also mentions that Mr Ms hearing loss was a nuisance, but that his severe
intractable tinnitus is very disabling. This would tend to support what Mr Ms told us about
the implant being planned to treat his tinnitus symptoms, rather than being focused on
treating the ASD.
So I asked Cigna to explain whether it had assessed Mr Ms claim as if the cochlear implant
was to treat tinnitus and for its comments as to whether tinnitus was a chronic condition. It
told me that the information was reviewed by its senior nurses and its medical advisory
panel, who provided the following response:
They consider tinnitus a chronic condition in general and in this case particularly.
It continues indefinitely, has no proven cure and in a case where a cochlear implant is
considered it has clearly passed the stage where it would be considered chronic. As well
there is going to be on going monitoring of the device in this case. They have advised they
are not aware of a cochlear implant being a recognised clinically proven treatment for
tinnitus.
Based on this evidence, it seems Cignas medical experts do consider that Mr Ms tinnitus
and the proposed cochlear implant fall within its definition of a chronic condition.
Ive considered this in line with the medical evidence Mr Ms provided. His consultants letter
suggests that the cochlear implant will help mitigate Mr Ms severe disability with tinnitus.
The letter doesnt suggest that the cochlear implant will cure Mr Ms symptoms  mitigate
seems to imply that Mr Ms symptoms might be lessened or become less severe. In my view,
this seems to tie-in with what Cignas medical panel has said  that this condition cant be
cured. So taking together all of the available medical evidence, both from Mr Ms treating
doctor and Cignas medical team, I think it was fair for Cigna to draw the conclusion that Mr
Ms tinnitus and ASD are chronic conditions.
Its open to Mr M to obtain further medical evidence from his treating doctors in response to
my provisional decision, if he feels that tinnitus shouldnt be considered to be a chronic
condition.
This means I currently think it was fair and reasonable for Cigna to rely on the policyexclusion for chronic conditions to turn down Mr Ms claim.
Mr M has queried why some surgeries for other conditions which might be considered
chronic are covered by the policy. In making my decision, I need to look at the specific
circumstances of Mr Ms claim and I dont think it would be helpful for me to speculate on
why some surgeries are covered and others arent. Each claim is likely to be assessed using
Cignas clinical judgement and based on its assessment of available medical evidence
relevant to that particular claim.
In the specific circumstances of Mr Ms claim, Im currently persuaded that its fair and
reasonable for Cigna to decide that the cochlear implant surgery isnt covered. So while I
sympathise with Mr Ms circumstances, as its clear from all hes told us that tinnitus has had
a huge impact on his life, Im not planning to tell Cigna to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr M responded to my provisional findings in detail and provided me with some peer-
reviewed papers. He also provided an email from his treating consultant. Ive summarised Mr 
Ms response and the salient points from Mr Ms doctor.
Mr M felt that CIGNA was inconsistent in its position, as it funded chronic conditions, 
such as osteoarthritis, with hip replacements;
Active implantable electronic devices are used in many areas of clinical practice. He 
pointed specifically to cardiac resynchronisation therapy, which isnt curative, but he 
said it mitigates the symptoms of heart failure. CIGNA also covers the cost of this 
treatment;
Tinnitus is a consequence of ASD, which is an acute condition, and the tinnitus has 
become chronic because it hasnt been treated by an implant. With the implant, it will 
cease to be chronic. He felt that the indication for the implant was clinical 
management of the denervation of the cerebral cortex, which gives rise to 
catastrophic tinnitus and can be reversed by using an implant. He compared this to 
cataract implant surgery reversing sight loss. 
Mr Ms treating doctor said:
His hearing loss and tinnitus had become chronic because in 2018, Mr M sustained 
acute and irreversible damage to his inner ear function. Hed originally received the 
correct treatment with steroids, but hadnt responded to it;
She agreed with my finding that the implant was not like a hearing aid;
She accepted that tinnitus isnt a curable condition. But she said she was confused 
because there are a number of conditions which arent curable, but which are 
treatable  such as heart arrythmia or osteoarthritis;
A cochlear implant, once implanted, stays inside a patient for life, providing benefit 
for as long as it is functioning. Patients will need long-term maintenance, but after 12 
months, patients whove had surgery in the private sector can be transferred to the 
NHS;
In some cases, insurers agree to fund the implant and surgery and patients self-fund 
the ongoing care;
Any recommendation for a cochlear implant is made by a multi-disciplinary team. It 
isnt based on an individual surgeons opinion.
I asked our investigator to send this evidence to CIGNA for it to consider. While it had 
already accepted my provisional decision, it added the following:I passed the details you provided, including (the consultants) comments, to our medical 
advisory panel for their comments.
They have acknowledged that a cochlear implant is now a recognized treatment for 
unilateral hearing loss and for tinnitus in combination with profound hearing loss.
They have referred to the section of (the) report where she states that a cochlear implant is
an implanted electronic device and not like a hearing aid. A device is a piece of equipment or 
in other words an appliance. We used hearing aid as an example of another hearing 
appliance and it was never meant to imply that a cochlear implant is a hearing aid.
I realise that this point has already been addressed in both your response and the response 
from the Ombudsman.
(The consultant) also admits in her report that tinnitus is not a curable condition. Currently 
there are various treatments available for management of the tinnitus but the outcomes of 
these treatments vary amongst different patients making their effectiveness far from 100%, 
as can be seen in the references submitted by (the consultant). Therefore, there are quite a 
percentage of tinnitus sufferers that although they receive various treatments, their 
symptoms do persist despite the treatments.
This is not the case in the examples of the pacemakers for arrhythmias and hip replacement 
for osteoarthritis mentioned by (the consultant). In those examples, the available treatments 
do alleviate the symptoms from those conditions in almost all diseased individuals.
The complaint has been referred back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I still think it was fair for CIGNA to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr M that I carefully considered all of the evidence he sent me and Id 
also like to extend my thanks to Mr Ms treating consultant, who kindly provided further 
information. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, I am neither a doctor or a 
medical professional and therefore, I need to base my decision based on the expert medical 
evidence available to me.
It seems to me that all parties now agree that the cochlear implant should be treated as a 
surgical appliance and so I dont need to make any further finding on this point. The 
remaining issue for me to decide is whether it was reasonable for CIGNA to turn down Mr 
Ms claim.
As I set out in my provisional findings, CIGNA has defined what it considers to be a chronic 
condition and says that a condition only needs to meet one or more of the listed 
characteristics; including that there is no cure; it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring; it 
needs long-term or ongoing control and it continues indefinitely.
Ive thought carefully about all of the medical evidence that Mr Ms treating consultant has 
provided. Ive placed particular weight on this evidence, because it relates specifically to Mr 
M and the treatment of both his ASD and tinnitus, rather than being more general in nature. The original treatment plan indicated that the implant was to mitigate Mr Ms severe tinnitus 
symptoms rather than to cure them. The consultants follow-up email does refer to the fact 
that Mr Ms ASD and tinnitus have become chronic because of acute and irreversible 
damage to the inner ear function. As Ive explained above, CIGNA agreed to cover the 
steroids which treated the initial acute hearing damage, but this treatment didnt work.
The consultant has also said: I would agree that it is not a curable condition, if one defined 
cure as a course of treatment that is given and on cessation of the treatment the condition or 
the symptom does not return. While she compares this directly to other funded treatments 
for chronic conditions insurers do cover, it seems to me that it was fair for CIGNA to 
conclude that there is no cure for Mr Ms condition. CIGNA says that the peer-reviewed 
evidence thats been provided shows that outcomes for cochlear surgery may vary, whilst 
the other surgery types that Mr M and his consultant have referred to usually alleviate the 
symptoms for all patients.
And Ive also noted that the implant will require long-term management and usually an 
annual review, even though after 12 months, patients often may choose to transfer their care 
to the NHS. This would seem to show that the cochlear implant surgery would need long-
term monitoring. Additionally, the treating consultant, who forms part of the multi-disciplinary 
team dealing with Mr Ms care, hasnt suggested that Mr Ms condition remains acute and 
curable.
Having had the chance to review the new evidence, CIGNA maintained its position. Based 
on all Ive seen and the evidence available to CIGNA, I think it was entitled to reach this 
decision, as it appears its fair for it to now consider Mr Ms condition to be chronic. I do 
sympathise with Mr Ms position, because its clear that the symptoms he has impact heavily 
on his life. But overall, Ive concluded it was fair for CIGNA to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman