DRN-2479010
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as Very, 
unfairly placed a late payment marker on his credit file. He would like this removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons.
I appreciate Mr Hs says the missed £5 payment was a mistake, that he has never 
missed other payments on this account and when he was aware of the outstanding 
£5 payment, he paid it immediately.
I have looked at the terms and conditions for the account and at Mr Hs statements. 
The terms and conditions explain how payments are shown on account statements. 
And with Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreements it explains payments must be 
allocated to a specific BNPL transaction and how this can be done. The statements 
do show what payments were due and when. So, whilst I appreciate Mr H says he 
found the statements confusing I felt they showed a separate £5 payment was due 
by 10 April 2020 which Mr H didnt make
I think the terms and conditions also make it clear that not making payments on time 
will be recorded on credit files
I appreciate in the current climate Mr H feels this is harsh. But companies do have a 
responsibility to record correct information on credit files. So, I dont think Shop Direct 
was wrong to do so. And if, as Mr H says, he has never missed other payments then 
the rest of his payment history with Shop Direct should reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
