DRN-2324865
The complaint
Mrs W is represented. Her representative refers to her Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and Custody account, both held in National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) portfolio, and 
he says NatWest did as follows:
Failed to follow instructions to use her ISA allowances for the 2017/2018 and 
2018/2019 tax years; and failed to manage the ISA.
Failed to manage assets (and capital gains) within the Custody account.
Mrs W seeks redress and a refund of management fees (on the basis that the requisite 
management service was not provided).
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She initially concluded as follows:
There is evidence of the initial advice given by NatWest to Mrs W (and her late 
husband) in 2012 which recommended its Discretionary Portfolio Management 
Service (DPMS); recommended automatic use of their maximum ISA allowances 
through this service at the time and for future years; and recommended the Custody 
account, essentially for the purpose of retaining assets outside the main portfolio, 
then liquidating them to feed the main portfolio.
She found that, following the retirement of the relevant adviser, NatWest failed to 
follow through with these arrangements in the afore-mentioned tax years.
She referred to evidence from the representative that the Custody account was 
established with a transfer-in of assets (solely owned by Mrs Ws husband) in specie 
which, due to NatWests error, lacked acquisition costs; so Capital Gains Tax (CGT) 
essentially applied to their total value; and NatWest compounded this error after Mrs 
Ws husband passed away in 2017 because it did not take the opportunity to 
recalculate CGT for the portfolio/account (discounting historic CGT that ceased to 
apply on his death); but the Custody account was encashed in 2020 without any CGT 
liability.
She referred to NatWests concession that Mrs W had not received the service she 
was entitled to; to its concession that it did not use the maximum ISA allowances for 
the afore-mentioned tax years as it was supposed to; to the payment of 
compensation (£1,610.47) it made to her in this respect; and to the additional 
payment of £100 it made to her as compensation for the trouble and upset she had 
been caused.
She found that NatWest should do more by refunding the ongoing management fees 
it received from April 2017 to June 2020 [the period covering its failings]  because 
its failings indicate that it was not managing the portfolio as it was supposed to do  
and should increase the trouble and upset payment to £250.
NatWest disagreed with this outcome and explained that its management service applied to 
the main portfolio, not to the Custody account; that no fee applied to the Custody account 
and assets there were subject to a management fee only when they were transferred to the 
main portfolio; and that no fee applied to such transfer(s); so its failings in the Custody 
account do not indicate a service that was paid for but not received; that the main portfolio 
continued to be managed at all relevant times; and that in this context, it is unfair to propose 
a refund of fees. The investigator agreed and revised her conclusion to withdraw the refund 
element (only). 
Mrs Ws representative disagreed. He argued that Mrs W had not received a management 
service for the main portfolio since 2015  that she had not been met with, been advised by 
or spoken to an adviser and had no idea who was managing the portfolio after the initial 
advisers retirement; that NatWest had not updated itself on her circumstances and on 
suitability of the portfolio (and its mandate); that NatWest had not even reviewed the portfolio 
following the significant change in circumstances arising from her husbands passing in 
2017; and that the absence of management should be viewed in this overall context, 
whereby it cannot reasonably be said that the portfolio continued to be managed despite 
these missing elements. He retained Mrs Ws claim for a refund of fees.
The investigator was not persuaded by the representatives argument and the matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue in dispute appears to be limited to the matter of compensation for the absent 
management alleged by Mrs W and her representative. 
No CGT liability arose from NatWests mismanagement of the Custody account 
(mismanagement which it has conceded) and it has compensated Mrs W for the missed ISA 
allowance usage for the afore-mentioned tax years (another failing that NatWest has 
conceded). I agree with the investigators finding that compensation due to Mrs W for the 
trouble and upset she has been caused should be increased to £250  this being a fair and 
reasonable sum to compensate her with in this respect; and one that broadly reflects what 
this service has awarded in comparable cases.
I understand the representatives points with regards to Mrs Ws continuing claim for a 
refund of management fees. It is not unreasonable for an investor to expect engagement 
with his/her investment manager. However, consideration of the type of investment 
management service that was paid for (or was being paid for) is important in order to fairly 
determine the level of engagement that can reasonably be expected.
In the context of a discretionary investment management service engagement between the 
parties would usually be front-loaded, meaning that the important matters to address, 
resolve and agree usually occur at the outset of the relationship in order to put in place the 
overall mandate for the investment management service. Meaningful engagement between 
the parties would usually take place in this respect. 
Once the mandate is agreed, it is then the firm duty to deliver the service in line with the 
mandate until and unless the mandate is revised (or withdrawn). In the course of doing so, 
portfolio statements/reports will usually be made available to the investor on an agreed 
periodical basis but, in the main, the discretionary investment manager conducts 
management of the portfolio on its discretion and it is not particularly uncommon for this to 
happen without routine contact with the investor. Some investors elect for a discretionary 
management service specifically in order to avoid such routine contact or involvement.Having said the above, I do not suggest that Mrs Ws representatives points completely lack 
merit. I consider that NatWest should have done more to maintain at least a basic level of 
contact with her after her adviser retired  to at least give an update on arrangements after 
his departure  and then when her husband passed away. I also consider that such contact 
could have fostered a discussion of any review of the DPMS mandate she might have 
wanted  but I should also note the absence of evidence to suggest that she ever wanted 
such a review. However, these are sufficiently catered for in the award for trouble and upset 
(which is based on NatWests overall service deficiency).
I have not seen evidence that the shortcomings alleged by the representative derailed 
management of the main portfolio. It is clear that it affected management of the Custody 
account and usage of the ISA allowance(s), but no fee was charged for the former and the 
latter has been separately redressed. 
I have not seen evidence that assets in the main portfolio were mismanaged or not managed 
at all. The investigators revised view was essentially the same. The obstacle this creates for 
Mrs Ws and her representatives argument is that it cannot fairly be said that the portfolio 
was broadly unmanaged. Aside from the issues treated separately above, it appears that the 
portfolio was, in the main, managed by NatWest at its [agreed] discretion during the relevant 
period and I am not persuaded that it would be reasonable for it to refund the associated 
management fees.
Putting things right
For the trouble and upset caused to Mrs W, NatWest must ensure she is paid a total of 
£250.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint (as set out above) and I uphold her 
claim for compensation only with regards to the trouble and upset she has been caused. In 
this respect, I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay her a total of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman