DRN-3745574
The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has not refunded transactions 
that her ex-husband made on her account.  
What happened
Mrs H says that her ex-husband slowly and discreetly took control of her financial affairs, 
including her RBS account, over a number of years. She says that by 2011, he had full 
control of her account and she had no debit card or PIN numbers in her possession. He 
withheld money from her, and she had to ask permission to use her money. 
When Mrs H separated from her husband, she got statements for the account and realised 
that he had made a number of transactions that she was unaware of. This included a large 
transfer, cheques, a cash withdrawal, point of sale payments and some standing orders she 
was aware of, but the reasons her ex-husband gave for them were misleading. 
RBS investigated and found that some of the payments had been completed using the 
genuine card details, and that Mrs H had confirmed shed given her PIN to a third party who 
had then used this and the genuine card to make the payments. They did not uphold the 
complaint as the terms and conditions of the account had been broken, and the payments 
were not so unusual as to be flagged on their internal fraud systems. Mrs H disagreed and 
referred the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and attempted to mediate with RBS, due to      
Mrs Hs circumstances with her ex-husband. RBS explained that they were unaware of the 
situation and having looked over the fraud claim, there was no indication of fraud on her 
account. They also felt it was more of a civil matter between Mrs H and her ex-husband. 
Our Investigator then issued a view on the complaint and went through the transaction types 
individually. They ultimately felt that the transactions were not so unusual that they should 
have been flagged and questioned further by RBS. And that there was no indication it wasnt 
Mrs H that was making the transactions, so they thought it was reasonable that RBS had not 
refunded them. But they agreed that the £250 compensation offered by RBS for delays in 
them dealing with the fraud claim initially was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs H disagreed with this. She still felt that RBS should have contacted her about certain 
transactions as they were out of the ordinary and she felt her account activity had changed 
drastically. And she thought £10,000 was a reasonable amount that would be closer to a fair 
resolution. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think RBS decision not to refund the transactions was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And I think its offer of £250 compensation for the delays in the investigation 
is fair. Ill explain why in more detail. 
I firstly want to make it clear that it isnt my role to determine if Mrs Hs ex-husband has 
committed a crime. Im aware that she approached the police but they suggested not taking 
it any further. My role is to look at RBS actions and assess if they are liable for the 
transactions. The regulation that applies in this case says that in order for Mrs H to be liable 
for the transactions, she has to have made or otherwise authorised them herself. From     
Mrs Hs account, there are some transactions which she did knowingly authorise, such as 
the standing orders and two of the cheques. But she has said there are others which she 
was not aware of and did not consent to. 
Mrs H has described how her ex-husband gained full control of her account and had her 
debit card and PIN number, which she was aware of. While I appreciate that she says she 
didnt give consent for him to then carry out transactions, she was aware and did give her 
consent, albeit coercively, for him to have the means to carry out transactions on her 
account. Considering this I think this amounts to giving her apparent authority, which is the 
legal term, to carry out transactions on her behalf. Mrs H has mentioned that her ex-husband 
was able to set up online banking and carry out transactions on it. However, he would only 
have been able to do so using Mrs Hs security credentials, and there would have been no 
way for RBS to know that it wasnt a legitimate request made by her. 
Ive gone on to consider if RBS should have noticed that any of the transactions were out of 
the ordinary or should have flagged as possible fraud. Ill go through each transaction type in 
turn. 
Cheques
Ive firstly considered the cheques. Mrs H has said that her ex-husband forced her to sign 
two cheques, and that he forged a third which she feels should have been flagged by RBS. 
Ive seen copies of all the cheques in question. 
The first two cheques which Mrs H was forced to sign are for relatively small amounts of 
money, so see no reason why they should have flagged due to the transaction amounts.  
Looking at the cheques themselves, there is nothing unusual about them, so Im satisfied 
RBS was correct to process them without any questions. 
Mrs H says the third cheque was forged by her ex-husband and that this is clear. Ive looked 
at the cheque and it should be noted that I am not a handwriting expert. But when I compare 
it to the other cheques, it does not look so dissimilar that I think it should have raised 
concern for RBS and prompted further questions. Ive also considered the amount, as it was 
a little higher at £1,500. But in the context of Mrs Hs account at that time, I dont think this 
was so unusual as to have warranted questioning from RBS. 
So Im satisfied that RBS was correct to process all three cheques without flagging them as 
suspicious. 
Standing Orders
Mrs H has said she was aware of the standing order that was set up on the account for £600 
per month between around 2011 and 2016. And that while she did give her authority for this 
to be set up, she was informed that this was for an investment which she never received any returns for. 
Ive considered this and I cant see that the amount was unusual or out of character for the 
general account activity at that time. And as it appears that this had been set up and 
authorised by Mrs H, even if the payments had been flagged by RBS and they contacted her 
to see if they were genuine, it seems unlikely she would have felt they were fraudulent at the 
time and disputed them. 
On balance, I think it was reasonable that RBS processed the standing orders without 
flagging them as potentially fraudulent. 
Direct debits
There were two direct debits set up on the account in early 2019 to two separate credit card 
companies. Mrs H says she was unaware that these had been set up and initially said these 
were to pay for a family holiday which she thought her ex-husband had paid for. But she 
later said this is what she assumes the credit card paid for, but she could not be sure. 
Looking at the amounts, which were £48.50 and £175 per month, and the frequency of the 
payments, as well as the overall account activity at the time, I dont think these were so 
unusual that they should have flagged as suspicious. So I dont think it is unreasonable that 
RBS processed these payments without contacting Mrs H about them.  
Point of Sale transactions and cash withdrawal
Mrs H has highlighted four point of sale transactions for between £1.70 and £55, as well as a 
cash withdrawal of £60 which she says her ex-husband carried out. RBS has highlighted that 
the correct PIN was used on the first attempt for the cash withdrawal, meaning whoever 
made it had the genuine card and correct security details to access the cash. 
Once again, the amounts involved are not high value and would not have flagged as 
potentially fraudulent for that reason. The account was not drained of funds and the general 
activity did not fit that of a typical fraudulent transaction. So, I can see no reason why RBS 
would have reasonably been expected to stop these transactions prior to them leaving the 
account to question Mrs H about them. And I dont think that they have made an error in the 
circumstances. 
CHAPS payment
Mrs H has also disputed a transfer made in May 2011 for £22,020. As this payment was 
made almost twelve years ago, there is understandably very little evidence for me to 
consider. RBS has said that due to the amount, this could not have been completed online. 
This is because the limit for online transfers was £20,000. Because of this, they have said 
this would have been a manual payment that would have required documentation and 
authorisation from the account holder to proceed. This differs from Mrs Hs version of events 
as she says she was unaware of this transfer. 
Unfortunately, there are no notes nor additional evidence for me to consider. Ive looked at 
the statements for the period in question and can see the available funds had been in the 
account for at least six months prior to the transfer. I can see the amount was relatively large 
considering the other payments around the same time, but this on its own would not 
necessarily be enough to say it should have flagged as suspicious. I also have to consider 
that even if it did flag, RBS has said the transfer would have needed to be authorised by the 
account holder, so any questions could have been asked at that point. While I appreciate 
Mrs H has said otherwise, without any evidence to the contrary, its difficult for me to agree that RBS did not follow its normal process of a manual transfer for the amount in question.  
Because of this, I dont think RBS needs to refund this disputed transaction. 
Delays
RBS has acknowledged that there were some delays in it dealing with Mrs Hs claim due to 
post she sent in that went missing. It has offered Mrs H £250 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused and this offer is in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. Because of this, I think the offer is fair.  
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has made an offer to pay £250 in relation to the delays in 
handling the claim.  I think this offer is fair in the circumstances and I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
So my decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mrs H £250 if it hasnt 
already.
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman