DRN-3407166
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited terminated her income 
protection claim.
What happened
Mrs C is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which 
is to provide her with an income in the event she cant work due to illness or injury.
In 2016, Mrs C stopped work in her part-time role because of post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD) and anxiety. Aviva accepted she had a valid claim and benefit was paid.
Aviva then carried out a review of the claim. It arranged for Mrs C to have an 
independent medical examination (IME). Based on the IME report, Aviva thought Mrs C 
could return to work. It paid her benefit up to 30 June 2019 (though her employer 
continued to pay her in error until December 2019).
Mrs C later disputed Avivas decision to terminate her claim. Aviva didnt change its 
decision, though it did pay a further four months benefit at 50% (to recognise an offer it 
had previously made to pay proportionate benefit). Unhappy with this, Mrs C brought a 
complaint to this service. Meanwhile, Mrs C returned to work in October 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Avivas decision 
to terminate the claim had been reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2022. Heres what I said:
The policy defines incapacity as:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job 
role as a result of their illness or injury.
In January 2019, Mrs C had an IME with Dr M (consultant in occupation medicine). In his 
report of March 2019, Dr M explained he thought Mrs Cs perception of her workplace 
situation was acting as a major demotivating factor. He noted she had previously had five 
sessions of eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (EMDR) in 2018 which she 
had found helpful. Dr M thought she may be helped by more EDMR and believed that a 
re-referral should take place. Finally, Dr M was of the opinion that Mrs C was fit to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation on a part-time basis of 16 
hours a week, and then increase her hours over approximately four months.
I accept that Dr M thought Mrs C could return to work. However, its not clear why Aviva 
requested the IME take place with a consultant in occupational medicine. Given that 
Mrs C was experiencing mental health conditions, I wouldve expected the IME to take 
place with a consultant psychiatrist.
I understand that Mrs Cs EDMR treatment began in September 2019 and ended in 
October 2020.
Mrs C has provided a report from a consultant psychiatrist (Dr N) from June 2020. He said 
the most important treatment she was having was the EDMR treatment, as this dealt 
directly with her PTSD. He said he was hopeful Mrs C could return to work after shed 
completed her EDMR treatment.
I appreciate that Dr N assessed Mrs C over a year after Dr M, but its also the case that 
Dr N is a specialist in mental health, so this does add weight to Mrs Cs view that she 
wasnt ready to go back to work before shed completed the EMDR treatment.
After receiving Dr Ns report, Aviva obtained Mrs Cs GP records for 2019 and 2020. 
However, it didnt think these showed that she had ongoing debilitating mental health 
symptoms. I accept this, but I think Mrs C makes a reasonable point when she says that 
she was under the care of her therapist for the EDMR treatment, not her GP.
Given that Mrs C started her EDMR treatment only three months after Avivas decision to 
terminate the claim, I think a reasonable way forward would be for Aviva to contact 
Mrs Cs EDMR therapist for more information. It should ask her about Mrs Cs symptoms, 
and when she thought Mrs C could return to work. If the therapists evidence also 
supports that Mrs C couldnt return to work until her EMDR treatment ended, Id expect 
Aviva to reconsider its decision to terminate the claim when it did.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments before I reached a final decision.
Mrs C responded and said she thinks Aviva should prepare the letter to the therapist, 
and that both me and Mrs C should check and agree the letter before its sent, to ensure 
Aviva asks for the correct information.
Aviva responded to say it doesnt agree with my provisional decision, and made the 
following main points:
As Mrs C had already been diagnosed with a mental health condtiion, she didnt 
require a diagnosis. Therefore, it thought an expert in occupational medicine 
would be better placed to give an opinion on Mrs Cs fitness for work.
Dr M didnt say that Mrs C needed to have started or completed the EDMR 
treatment in order to return to work. Despite this, Mrs C didnt return to work until 
around 18 months later.
It would like clarification on what its required to ask Mrs Cs therapist. 
It doesnt think its reasonable to seek a medical opinion from a therapist 18 
months after the treatment ended. It also thinks this is a pointless exercise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont require Aviva to send the letter to Mrs Cs therapist to me (and Mrs C) to check before 
its sent, though Im happy to look at this if Aviva wishes to send it to me. 
To be clear, Id like Aviva to ask Mrs Cs therapist for information about her symptoms whilst 
she was receiving treatment, and to find out if the therapist thinks Mrs C could have returned 
to work at that time. Aviva should then reconsider its decision to terminate Mrs Cs claim. If 
Mrs C is unhappy with Avivas decision, she can bring a new complaint to this service.Aviva has explained its reasoning for obtaining the opinion of a consultant in occupational 
medicine. Whilst I appreciate Mrs C didnt need a diagnosis, I remain of the view that a 
mental health expert wouldve been better placed to comment on Mrs Cs ability to work, 
given she was experiencing mental health conditions. I accept that Dr M didnt think that 
Mrs C needed to have started or completed her EDMR treatment before returning to work, 
though its also the case that hes not a mental health expert. We have a conflicting opinion 
on this from Dr N (who is a consultant psychiatrist), but I acknowledge that this was some 
time later.
Ive noted Avivas comments about the length of time thats now passed since Mrs C had her 
EDMR treatment, and its view on how meaningful it might be to ask the therapist for their 
opinion on Mrs Cs ability to work at the time. To clarify, we know that Dr N didnt think Mrs C 
could return to work until her EDMR treatment had finished. However, he didnt assess her 
until June 2020. Given that Mrs Cs EDMR therapist started treating her a few months after 
Aviva made its decision to terminate the claim, I remain satisfied that the therapists view on 
Mrs Cs symptoms and ability to work will be relevant.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to contact Mrs Cs EDMR therapist to ask them about Mrs Cs symptoms and 
whether they think she couldve returned to work during the period when she was 
receiving EDMR treatment. Aviva should then reconsider its decision to terminate the 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman