DRN-1534709
The complaint
Mr G is complaining about a Guaranteed Over 50s Plan taken out in 1989, provided and 
administered by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). Mr G is unhappy that he has paid 
more in premiums into the policy than is due to be paid out. 
Mr G is represented in this complaint but for clarity, I have referred to all submissions as if 
made directly by Mr G.
What happened
Mr G took out the whole of life policy with Aviva in 1989. Aviva is responsible for the 
administration of the policy but as the policy was sold without any advice to Mr G, the way 
the policy was sold to him cant be addressed. Other than to check Mr G was provided with 
full information about the policy before he decided to take it out.
After enquiring about the surrender value of the policy in July 2019, Mr G has explained he 
was unhappy that the value was £1,479. In particular, he felt it was worth less than he had 
paid in premiums since he took the policy out. When Mr G complained to Aviva, it 
responded to say that the relevant product information had been given to Mr G at the time 
the policy was taken out, so he could decide if it was suitable for his needs. Aviva 
confirmed that the surrender value had been increased to mirror the sum assured of the 
policy. They also explained that sometimes customers live longer and end up paying more 
in premiums than the policy will pay out. 
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who was of the view it shouldnt 
be upheld. He said that the maturity value was correct and there was no evidence of any 
errors in the administration of the policy by Aviva.
Mr G remained unhappy. He said Aviva shouldve made him aware when he had paid 
more in to the policy than would be paid out. As no agreement was reached, the case 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons.
I appreciate Mr Gs concerns about paying significantly more into the policy than might be 
paid out. But this is the way this type of insurance operates and isnt uncommon across 
other similar policies Ive seen. The insurers are on risk from the outset of the policy which 
means that even if a small amount of premiums are paid into the policy, the full claim 
benefit would have to be paid out  the opposite of what has happened in this case.
The plan was taken out after Mr G responded to a mailing and returned a completed 
application form. It was therefore taken out on a non-advised basis, so Aviva are not 
responsible for its suitability to Mr Gs needs at the time.
However, there was a requirement on Aviva in regard to the information it provided to Mr G. 
Due to the time that has passed Aviva isnt able to provide me with a copy of all the product 
literature that was then sent to Mr G. However, they have given me a copy of what these 
documents wouldve looked like  including the application form. They have also been able 
to provide a copy of the notice of right to cancel that was sent to Mr G. This gives some 
more detail about how the plan worked and states that the value on surrender may be less 
than the premiums paid.  
Having reviewed the documents I am satisfied Mr G was provided with the correct and 
relevant information about the policy and so shouldve been aware of its key features as 
well as the relevant terms and conditions, which includes the fact that he may end up 
paying more into the policy that would be paid out.
I know Mr G has said that he feels he shouldve been told when he had paid more in to the 
policy, than was due to pay out. However, I believe it was clear from the documentation that 
Mr G received that this might be the case. The table of benefits that wouldve been in the 
initial documentation shows what the sum assured of the policy should be at each year of 
age. It clearly shows, in my view, that the sum assured decreases as the policy holder gets 
older, despite the consumer having paid more into the policy. This is essentially because 
this is a type of insurance and it costs more to cover someone as they get older. Also, Aviva 
isnt obliged to do this and in fact it would be rare for any business to adopt this approach 
with any of these types of plans, especially given its set out in the policy documentation 
that his could happen.
Aviva has confirmed that they completed a review of these policies recently, and that they 
will be converted to paid-up when the consumer reaches the age of 95 - meaning no further 
premiums will be taken after that point. However, this was incorrectly communicated to Mr 
G as no further premiums being due after July 2019.This was discovered during Avivas 
investigation of Mr Gs complaint and it has acknowledged its error. It has also agreed to 
refund any premiums paid by Mr G after this date as well as agreeing to increase the 
surrender value of the policy to the be the same as the sum assured. This means Mr G will 
receive the same amount now if he surrendered the policy as if there was a claim on the 
policy. In light of this I think Aviva has have acted fairly in converting the policy to paid-up 
now and increasing the surrender value to the sum assured. 
Overall therefore, given all that I have seen, while I recognise that Mr G will be disappointed, 
Im dont think Aviva has acted incorrectly or unreasonably an it has rectified the error it did 
make sufficiently.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I 
make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman