DRN-4108676
The complaint
Mr M complains about the standard of service RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) provided when
his motorcycle broke down in Europe, under his breakdown assistance policy.
References to RAC include its contractors and agents.
What happened
Mr M was driving through Europe in mid-July 2022 when his motorcycle broke down. He
called RAC the following day. He says its agent told him that he and his motorcycle would be
recovered to the ferry port the next day. From here he would be travelling back to the UK.
Mr M says this didnt happen. His motorcycle was collected but he was left to make his own
travel arrangements. He didnt know this until around 10.20am the day he was due to catch
the ferry, which he was booked on at 6pm. Mr M says this involved making arrangements to
travel across two countries, under time pressure, with no assistance from RAC. Had he
known his motorcycle wouldnt be returned with him  Mr M says his travel companions
couldve taken his motorcycle gear and also given him a lift to the port.
Mr M says his motorcycle gear was packed onto his bike that was taken into storage. As the
motorcycle wasnt repatriated until mid-August, this meant he was unable to use his other
motorcycles for this period.
In its complaint response RAC says Mr M was told, on the day he first made contact, that the
breakdown service was unable to take him and his vehicle together. The business says it
listened to the relevant telephone calls. But its agent didnt promise that he and the
motorcycle would be delivered to the port together. RAC says its agent advised Mr M to
arrange his own onward travel as it would be quicker to do this and that he should claim the
money back.
RAC says that once on the ferry Mr M asked for his motorcycle to be repatriated and a taxi
was arranged to take him home from the UK port. RAC says its European agents assisted
him to the best of its ability. But it offered £50 compensation for a lack of communication in
returning calls and providing updates. I can see from RACs subsequent submission to our
service that it says it paid £100 compensation to Mr M for the communication issues.
Mr M didnt agree with RACs response. He says he was told both he and his motorcycle
would be recovered to the ferry port by 6pm the day after he called. He says he had great
difficulty getting through to an agent, and when he did was given inaccurate information that
a taxi would be too expensive. Mr M says he was later told that he could reclaim up to 250
Euros. He says he experienced further stress when trying to call from the ferry to arrange a
taxi when back in the UK.
Mr M says he wasnt told that his V5 document was needed to transport his motorcycle
across the border. He had this with him when the breakdown occurred and couldve provided
it then, avoiding further hassle and delays. Because he remained dissatisfied, he referred his
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He says there was no call recording
available from when Mr M first contacted RACs European agent. This was because of time
limits imposed by the law in that country. On balance he didnt think there was evidence to
support that RACs agent told Mr M he and his motorbike would be taken to the ferry port.
Our investigator says the service provided by RAC met with the cover provided by Mr Ms
policy. He thought there was evidence to show the standard of communication from RAC
was poor. But he thought its £100 compensation payment fairly acknowledged this point.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain.
I can see that Mr M has European breakdown cover under his policy with RAC. Ive read his
policy terms to understand the cover provided. Mr Ms motorcycle was recovered to a
storage facility and later repatriated to his home in the UK. The terms say this may be what
happens if repairs cant be carried out locally or in a reasonable timeframe. I cant see that
there is any dispute over this point. So, this isnt something I need to consider further here.
Mr M has received payment for the travel costs he incurred when making his own
arrangements to get to the ferry port. The policy terms confirm that RAC will pay for
repatriation of Mr M and his vehicle, but that separate vehicles may be used for the recovery.
Mr M wasnt transported along with his motorcycle. The system records provided say the
agent took the motorcycle but not Mr M. The note shows Mr M needed to get to the ferry port
by 6pm and there is reference to querying whether a taxi could be organised. A later note
says the cost of a taxi would exceed the policy limit. The records indicate Mr M was told to
find a taxi to the train station and to get a train to the ferry port. This information was
communicated at around midday. The next note says a hire car wouldnt be possible
because Mr Ms destination was in another country.
Mr M doesnt dispute that RAC paid for the travel costs he incurred and arranged for a taxi to
take him home once he was in the UK. The policy covers the cost of getting Mr M home. So,
although RACs agent wasnt able to provide transport directly, I do think it treated Mr M
fairly here. However, the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he was given inaccurate
information, which led to rushed transport arrangements being made. This was stressful and
couldve been avoided. It also meant that he couldnt return with his motorcycle gear, which
he needed in order to use his other bikes back home.
In its complaint response RAC says it listened to the relevant calls and determined Mr M
wasnt told his motorcycle would be delivered to the port with him. We asked for a copy of
the calls RAC had listened to. It provided some calls, but not the first call when Mr M says
this discussion took place. RAC says it cant now provide this call due to legislation on how
long this information can be held. I note Mr Ms concern that RAC refers to a different
countrys legislation, not the country he broke down in.Its disappointing that RAC didnt retain a copy of all the call recordings it listened to. In the
absence of this, I must consider the remaining evidence and both partys testimony of what
happened.
Mr M says he couldve arranged a lift home and had his motorcycle gear taken back to the
UK. He says this is what hed have done if hed known hed have to make his own way home
and that he wouldnt be repatriated along with his motorcycle.
From the notes there is no information about Mr Ms onward journey until a taxi is mentioned
after his motorcycle was collected. I think Mr M makes a fair point that its unlikely that he left
all his travel arrangements to the last minute. This meant travelling through two countries in
order to get to the port for 6pm to catch the ferry he was booked on. No arrangements were
made prior to the motorcycle being collected around 10.20am that day. I dont think a
reasonable person would leave these arrangements so late. I think this reasonably supports
Mr Ms recollection of what he was told by RACs agent.
I note RACs reference to vehicles that have broken down not being allowed on the ferry. Mr
M disputes this. He says this relates to cars and vans, not motorcycles that can be wheeled
on and off the ferry. I havent seen information to determine whether Mr M couldve wheeled
his motorcycle onto the ferry or not. But this is a moot point. Mr M decided not to accept a lift
and arrange transport of his motorcycle gear, based on information provided by RACs
agent. On balance Im more persuaded by Mr Ms testimony than he was told he would be
transported along with his motorcycle. This wasnt correct and resulted in considerable
distress and inconvenience.
Ive also thought about Mr Ms comments that he wasnt able to ride his other motorcycles as
his helmet and other gear was in storage/transit. RACs policy terms say when repatriation is
authorised it normally takes 10 to 14 days for delivery. Although it also says at busy times it
may take longer.
In Mr Ms case it took over 30 days for his motorcycle to be repatriated. So, over twice as
long as RAC says it expects it to take. I cant see that RAC has provided a specific reason
why the repatriation took so long in this case.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments that getting through to RACs agents took a long time, and
return calls werent made. Experiencing a vehicle breakdown in a foreign country must be
stressful. Based on what Ive read, this was made worse in Mr Ms case because of the
difficulty getting in contact with RACs agents, and its lack of communication with him. I note
RAC acknowledges this failure in its complaint response.
Having considered all of this I dont think RAC, and its agents, treated Mr M fairly when
handling his breakdown claim. This has caused him significant stress and inconvenience. I
agree with RAC that a compensation payment is appropriate. But I think this should be
higher than its offer. For the reasons Ive set out in my decision I think RAC should pay Mr M
a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint and RAC should pay him a total of £300 
compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. He commented that RAC 
hasnt paid any compensation to him so far.RAC didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that RAC is yet to pay any compensation to him. My 
provisional decision was for it to pay £300 in total. So, if no payment has been made to date, 
RAC will need to make a payment of the full amount. 
As neither party has made further submissions or evidence for me to consider that impacts 
on my decision, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. RAC Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr M a total of £300 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman