DRN-1163298
 
complaint
Miss M says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss M took PPI with a charge card in 1997. The PPI was sold to Miss M by another firm but 
Allianz has accepted responsibility for this complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. So I will refer 
to the seller as Allianz to make things easier. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld but Miss M didnt agree. 
So, the complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss M cant remember taking out the PPI policy on her card. Ive seen the application form 
and it appears to have been sold through the completion of a leaflet. Allianz says this was 
completed in the store.
To get the cover Miss M had to tick a box for it. Had she not wanted the cover she could 
have left this unticked. And Miss M has signed the application form to show she agreed with 
its contents. So on balance I think that Miss M chose to take the policy and did so knowing 
she had a choice about it, even if she cant remember that now, many years later. 
I think it most likely that Allianz didnt recommend that Miss M take the PPI, so it didnt have 
to check if it was right for her. Instead Allianz had to provide information that was clear and 
not misleading so that Miss M could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know 
about Miss Ms circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from 
buying it.
I say this because Miss M was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Miss M at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think Miss M could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Miss Ms 
initial sick pay was good, full pay for at least 6 months, it would have dropped significantly after this time and the policy could have paid 15% of the balance until the claim stopped or 
the balance was repaid, whichever occurred first. And the PPI would also have provided 
cover if Miss M lost her job. So as this would have been in addition to her sick pay, and as 
Miss M told us she had no other means she could rely on if things went wrong, I think the 
policy could have been useful to her. 
So I dont think that Miss M lost out as a result of anything Allianz might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Allianz Insurance 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman