DRN-2240139
The complaint
Mr F complains that he wasnt able to make online payments when he needed to from his 
account he had with TSB Bank Plc. He also complains about the way TSB handled his 
complaint and that it later closed his account.
What happened
Mr F had a current account with TSB. In January 2020 Mr F tried to make an online payment 
but had trouble with the payment going through. He had to try three times over two hours for 
the payment to eventually go through. He complained and TSB apologised and explained it 
was due to a system upgrade. It paid Mr F £50 for the trouble and upset. Mr F doesnt feel 
this is fair as the money was to transfer to his wife. He said that due to the issue he wasnt 
able to pay for electricity and was worried about food in his freezer.
Mr F tried to make a transfer in February 2020 and experienced problems again. He wasnt 
able to make payment until later in the day. Mr F explained that his wife was stranded and 
needed the money for petrol. TSB originally said that there may have been problems at that 
time of day but later said there were no known issues. Mr F was unhappy with the mixed 
responses.
Mr F complained and sent a large number of emails to TSB copying in various members of 
the press. TSB decided to give Mr F notice that it would close his account due to a 
breakdown in relationship. It originally gave Mr F 60 days notice but later closed his account 
after seven days and gave its reasons for doing that.
Mr F complained to this service. He felt that TSBs actions and failure to respond to his 
emails was discriminating against him. Our investigator felt TSB had acted fairly. He felt the 
compensation was fair for the first issue with making payments and he said it wasnt clear 
why the second payments in February didnt go through. The investigator didnt think TSB 
had acted unfairly when deciding to close Mr Fs account.
The investigator later explained that many of the issues Mr F is complaining about it 
specifically about how TSB handled his complaint. This isnt something that falls inside of the 
jurisdiction of the financial ombudsman service.
Mr F disagreed with the investigator. He feels that overall hes been treated very unfairly and 
feels TSB has avoided giving him answers, as well as giving him differing information in his 
final response letters. He feels that TSBs failure to answer his emails should be something 
this service looks into. He asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
January payment
Mr F wasnt able to make his payment to his wife in January 2020 when he wanted to. It took 
three attempts for it to work and this was around two hours after the first attempt. TSB has 
explained there was a wider issue affecting other customers at this time. I think this wouldve 
caused Mr F some trouble and upset but I think £50 compensation is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Mr F was worried about getting electricity, and worried about losing frozen 
food because of it. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest there was financial loss 
caused by this error so I wont be asking TSB to do anything more.
February payment
Unfortunately, Mr F experienced the same issue again in February. I can imagine this must 
have been very frustrating. I am pleased to see that Mr F was able to make the payment 
later that day but I can imagine it was inconvenient for him. TSB originally said that there 
were issues around that time and apologised. But it later confirmed there were no known 
issues. Whilst I think this wouldve been confusing for Mr F, the issue at this point had been 
resolved  hed been able to make the payment already.
Mr F has said he believes the mixed messages by TSB were given on purpose and that it 
was lying to him. I cant see any evidence of this. It appears more likely that it was a mistake. 
And in any event this was after the payment issue. TSB has confirmed that Mr F couldve 
made payments in other ways, for example by calling up and using telephone banking. But 
Ive not seen evidence that Mr F tried this. So, whilst I understand that it must have been 
frustrating that he couldnt make the payment at the time he wanted and in the way that he 
wanted, I dont think that TSB needs to do anything more here. It has said that there werent 
any known issues that day and Mr F was eventually able to make the payment. As there 
were other methods Mr F couldve used I dont think TBS needs to do anything to put things 
right.
Complaint handling
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that TSB failed to respond to multiple complaint emails he 
sent in. Ive noted that TSB sent its final response letters to Mr F about both his complaints. 
It gave Mr F referral rights to this service. But Mr F continued to email about the same 
complaints. At this point TSB chose not to respond. Ive not considered whether that was the 
right thing to do or not because this part of the complaint is solely about complaint handling. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity  this means that this service cant investigate 
complaints about it.
I understand Mr F feels that this is directly connected to his complaint points, but I disagree. 
His complaint is about the failure of his online transactions going through. TSB not 
responding to emails after it had already completed its investigation into Mr Fs complaint 
isnt directly related to this activity. So, Im not going to be commenting on this aspect of his 
complaint.
Account closure
TSB gave Mr F 60 days notice that it would be closing his account. It said this was because 
of a relationship breakdown. The terms of Mr Fs account say that TSB can do this with two 
months written notice. So, I dont think its acted unfairly here.
After this notice Mr F sent a large number of emails over a short space of time which TSB 
believed to contain false comments. TSB issued a notice to Mr F to stop this action. It also 
relied on its terms to say it was ending the account due to Mr F behaving improperly. Its terms say that it can do this immediately but I can see TSB gave Mr F seven days notice 
that it was doing so.
Ive considered Mr Fs conduct and the terms of his TSB account and Ive not seen anything 
to suggest TSB was acting unfairly when relying on these terms to close Mr Fs account. So, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
Throughout TSBs communication with Mr F Ive not seen any evidence that it was treating 
him differently to any other customer. I understand Mr F feels it was lying to him and 
discriminated against him but I cant see any evidence that this was the case. So, I dont 
think TSB has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman