DRN-4090568
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited, who Ill call Moneybarn. He also says the mileage was wrong and the 
cost was overinflated. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I dont think Moneybarn have done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was about 
nine years old and had completed over 100,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would 
expect it to have significant wear and tear and not to be fault free as would perhaps be the 
case with a new car.
When Mr F reported faults with the keys and camera on his car he had already been in 
possession of it for some time. Moneybarn are only responsible for faults that were present, 
or developing, when the car was supplied to him and given the cars age and mileage, I think 
it would be reasonable to expect some wear and tear on the vehicle. In the absence of any 
expert evidence to demonstrate otherwise I think its therefore likely the faults Mr F reported 
were due to wear and tear and that Moneybarn didnt have responsibility for rectifying them.
Was the car misrepresented to Mr F?
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
Mr F says that when he agreed to buy the car he was told it had a mileage of 100,000 but 
that had increased by the time he received it. Ive not seen any further evidence to support 
Mr Fs testimony, and I can see that both the invoice and finance agreement (signed by Mr 
F) list the mileage as 102,000. It seems that mileage may have been rounded down as the 
MOT completed ahead of supply suggests a mileage of 102,971. But I think that was most 
probably a rounding issue and, regardless, I dont think it would be fair to suggest it 
amounted to a misrepresentation, as I think such a small mileage variation would be unlikely 
to materially influence Mr Fs willingness to enter into the contract.
Mr F told Moneybarn that hed been promised the car would cost £7,000. But Ive not seen 
any evidence to corroborate that assertion, and the invoice and the finance agreement (Mr F 
signed) both list the sales price as £9,178. I think it was therefore likely that Mr F had 
accepted that price and I dont think the price was misrepresented to him.
Mr F also says the car wasnt worth what he paid for it, but as Mr F agreed to the price the 
dealership charged and agreed to the finance agreement that funded that charge, I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest Moneybarn had done anything wrong. Its not for this Service 
to determine the cost of goods and Mr F was free not to proceed with the deal if he thought 
the goods were overpriced.
Ultimately, I dont think Moneybarn have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them 
to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman