DRN-3164712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained to Thomas Carroll (brokers) Ltd about the price they paid for 
their home insurance policies which Thomas Carroll arranged. They say they have been 
overcharged and have been able to find cheaper alternative cover. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B bought their home and buildings insurance policy through the broker, 
Thomas Carroll. In subsequent years Mr and Mrs B renewed their policy with them.
At renewal in 2021, Mr and Mrs B shopped around and found cheaper cover elsewhere. 
They complained to Thomas Carroll as they believed they had been overcharged for cover in 
previous years. 
Thomas Carroll didnt uphold their complaint. It said its Terms of Business explained the 
service it provided. It arranged cover using a panel of insurers  and using this panel it had 
provided Mr and Mrs B with the cheapest quote. It explained that it didnt research the entire 
market  and that Mr and Mrs B may find alternative cheaper insurance directly before they 
went ahead and renewed their policy. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think Thomas Carroll had acted unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the broker is to arrange insurance. An insurer sets the premium that a customer 
pays for their cover. Customers can choose from a very wide market when deciding to buy 
insurance  they can do this directly with the insurer or through a broker. 
Thomas Carroll set out under their Terms of Business the service it would provide to Mr and 
Mrs B. It said;
We select insurances from a range of insurers, but for certain products, we only 
select from a limited number of insurers or only offer products from a single insurer. 
We will give you information about this before we finalise your insurance 
arrangements; where we select products from a limited number of insurers, you may 
ask us for a list of the insurers we deal with for these products. If we propose using 
another intermediary to help place your business, we will confirm this to you in good 
time before arrangements are finalised.
Thomas Carroll provided Mr and Mrs B with a list of the insurers on the panel they use  and 
has shown that it searched for the cheapest insurance available from the panel  and is the 
one it recommended to Mr and Mrs B at renewal since 2019. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy that he was able to find a much cheaper price with the same 
insurer directly. But as our investigator explained, this isnt something Thomas Carroll is 
responsible for. Using an insurance broker doesnt guarantee the cheapest insurance price. 
And Thomas Carroll explained that it also takes into account the level of cover, claims 
service and quality of service when recommending a product to suit Mr and Mrs Bs needs. 
In terms of the Transparency in insurance renewal rules set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), from 1 April 2017, insurance companies and intermediaries were required 
to include reminders in their renewal letters, where consumers had renewed their policy four, 
or more, consecutive times, that they may be able to get a cheaper quote if they shop 
around. 
I can see that Thomas Carroll wrote the following in their renewal letters:
Have you checked that your insurance cover still meets with your needs? You have 
been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price if you shop around..
I understand Mr and Mrs B disagree. They do not believe its fair or reasonable for Thomas 
Carroll to offer a premium from the same insurer for more than they could obtain directly. 
But I dont think Thomas Carroll acted unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman