DRN-1800220
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the decision taken by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to 
remove his overdraft facility without telling him. He made an arrangement with Halifax to pay 
back his overdraft but he says this wasnt affordable and they told him if the monthly 
payments werent made then they would place a default on his account.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr S went over his agreed overdraft limit of £2,800. He spoke with 
Halifax who agreed a temporary increase of the limit to £2,870 to help him get back within 
the limit. Halifax wrote to Mr S on 5 September 2019 to set out the arrangement to pay back 
the unarranged overdraft. It was a two-month arrangement under which Mr S would need to 
pay £35 on 25 September and again on 25 October. 
Halifax then made an entry on their system but recorded an end date of 25 November 
instead of 25 October. This acted as an instruction to remove the overdraft facility at the 
close of business on 25 November.
A letter went out to Mr S on 28 October to let him know his arrangement would come to an 
end on 25 November 2019. This letter said After this date, if we increased your Arranged 
Overdraft limit temporarily, we will change it back to the original amount. Otherwise we will 
take away the Arranged Overdraft facility. Mr Ss entire overdraft facility was then removed 
in November. 
Halifax wrote to Mr S on 30 November to say that, as his account had remained overdrawn 
for some time, they had passed the management of his account to their Collections team. 
The letter also said that his arranged overdraft limit was nil.
 
On 11 December, Mr S noticed that Halifax had removed his overdraft. He contacted them to 
complain and explained that he was never told this would happen at the end of the two-
month arrangement. He explained that he was now in arrears with no overdraft facility and 
worried about the impact on his credit file.
 
A letter was sent to Mr S on 10 December asking him to make a payment of £2,702.98 to 
bring his account back in order. Mr S made further telephone calls in December and 
explained that, had he known the overdraft facility would be removed, he would have made 
payments into the account as he has another account. Mr S told Halifax he had a medical 
condition and could provide evidence if required. During a telephone call on 19 December, 
he told Halifax about his medical condition. Halifaxs call note says that a marker was placed 
on their records to show that Mr S was vulnerable. Mr S says an arrangement was also 
made for him to repay £250 a month to clear the balance.
 
A complaint was raised by Mr S and this led to Halifax responding on 23 December to say 
they had not upheld his complaints. They said that the two-month repayment plan was a way 
of helping him to bring his balance down to the £2,800 limit. They said a review was carried 
out and this led to the overdraft facility being removed, which they said was in line with their 
terms and conditions. 
   
Mr S telephoned Halifax on 28 December to talk about his options. He was told that the 
overdraft could not be reinstated because of his account status. They explained the best 
they could do for him was to set up a repayment plan to start in January 2020. They 
discussed his personal and work situation and also carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment which revealed that Mr Ss monthly disposable income was £203. It was 
arranged that Mr S would pay £235 which he said was affordable. 
  
Halifax then wrote to Mr S on 7 January 2020 setting out an agreed payment arrangement. 
The arrangement required Mr S to make a payment of £235 on day 28 of each month with 
the temporary overdraft limit being lowered each month by this amount. The letter says the 
first payment is due on 28 January and will bring the overdraft limit down to £2,555. This will 
continue until 28 November when the overdraft limit will fall to £205 with this then being 
cleared on 28 December at which point the overdraft limit will become nil. The letter explains 
that its important for Mr S to plan his monthly spending to stay within his new, reduced 
overdraft limit. It also asks Mr S to let Halifax know if he feels he may struggle to make 
agreed payments. They say they can talk the situation through with him to understand how 
they can help. Halifax also say that while Mr Ss current account is overdrawn his credit file 
will be updated to show this. 
Mr S says this arrangement wasnt affordable for him and referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and, following a further review by Halifax, they accept 
the overdraft facility shouldnt have been removed and say they have let Mr S down by 
putting in place an arrangement he couldnt afford. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and looked at ways to resolve the problem for Mr S. 
Halifax made the following offer:
They couldnt reinstate the overdraft facility so they offered to go through an income 
and expenditure assessment with Mr S and set up a refinance loan to help pay back 
the overdraft. They said the smallest monthly repayment for a £2,600 plan would be 
84 payments of £41.36 a month. 
The credit file was being reported as clean with no arrangement, but they would 
remove the arrangement flag if/when it appears
To send Mr S a letter of apology
To pay compensation of £400 for trouble and upset to Mr S
The investigator went back to Halifax to discuss further proposals but Mr S felt Halifax were 
taking too long to get back to us. He didnt agree with the offer put forward by Halifax so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
the following reasons. 
Halifax accept that an error led to Mr Ss overdraft facility being removed. This was down to 
the way in which a member of staff entered details on the system to record the two-month 
arrangement they had agreed with Mr S. The letter they sent on 28 October did not indicate that Mr Ss overdraft facility would be removed, and I believe that also wasnt Halifaxs 
intention.   
Even if Halifax hadnt made the error, its possible  given Mr Ss financial situation and the 
indicators of possible difficulty  that Halifax would have looked to gradually manage down 
the overdraft facility or remove it and have Mr S repay it over an affordable period. 
Halifax has said that they have been unable to reinstate Mr Ss overdraft and the reasons for 
this. While reinstatement would have been one way of returning Mr S back into the position 
he would have been had the error not happened, I agree with Halifaxs proposal of a 
repayment plan in the form of a refinancing loan. I say this because, Mr S has told us that he 
has been contacting Halifax to try and set up a repayment arrangement. This shows that    
Mr S feels this is an arrangement which works for him. Also, given the history of the account, 
it could well be that Halifax, if they were able to reinstate the overdraft, could well decide to 
give notice to remove it later, this would leave Mr S in the position he finds himself in now. A 
repayment plan gives Mr S a solution to help him sort out the problem now. 
Mr S says hes already paid £245 towards his overdraft and I can see that our investigator 
looked into this sum being refunded to Mr S and then added to the refinancing plan. I dont 
feel this will be helpful to Mr S as the fact is that payment has been made and adding this to 
the refinancing plan will only leave him with a higher amount to pay back when the solution 
needs to be around getting Mr S to a position where he is clear of the overdraft. Mr S has 
also told us that he has been in a position to start making payments for some time but hasnt 
because he was told a repayment plan was being set. That said, I will consider the impact on 
Mr S of making this payment when it wasnt affordable for him later in my decision.  
 
When a business becomes aware of a customer being in financial difficulty, wed expect a 
business to treat their customer fairly and empathetically. This includes having regular, 
informative conversations with their customer about their financial standing and personal 
circumstances, and taking positive steps to provide support.
  
Halifax arranged a repayment plan with Mr S which involved him making monthly payments 
which were higher than his disposable income. I can see that Halifax accept they have let 
down Mr S. I agree with Halifaxs position on this and, even though Mr S told them the 
monthly payments were affordable, Halifax shouldve known this wasnt the case. 
I have looked at Mr Ss bank statements and, in particular, the twelve months leading up to 
the repayment plan being arranged in December 2019. I feel a twelve-month period is 
reasonable to get an understanding of Mr Ss financial position. Over this period, Mr Ss 
account has always remained overdrawn, there have been occasions when Mr S has gone 
over the overdraft limit, but generally his account has been towards the upper end of the 
overdraft limit. I feel this suggests the possibility that Mr S was in financial difficulty. Halifax 
could have picked up on this; I have seen letters which they have sent to Mr S in 2018 and 
2019 noting this as they had agreed to temporarily stop charging him overdraft fees. These 
records were available to Halifax when the repayment plan was arranged in December 2019. 
This, together with working out an amount which was higher than Mr Ss disposable income, 
shows that Halifax didnt arrive at a solution which was affordable to Mr S.
This led to Mr S making a payment, which he says was for £245, when the information 
shows this wasnt an amount Halifax shouldve felt was affordable for him. I believe this 
caused Mr S trouble given that he told us he was unable to meet a payment in January 
2020.   
Mr S says that Halifax never asked for any information relating to his medical condition 
before the overdraft was removed, or even during the complaints process, even though he told them he could provide it. I have seen a number of medical reports which describe Mr Ss 
medical condition. One report, which was prepared around the time the repayment 
arrangement was put in place, says, at times of perceived stress he may be vulnerable to 
an increase in his symptoms of depression and anxiety While there is no evidence which 
shows that Halifax were aware of the extent of Mr Ss medical condition, this would have 
been identified by them had they asked for further details. At this point, the medical reports, 
which Mr S says he would have sent, would have highlighted how vulnerable Mr S was. 
Given what I have seen from the contact history provided by Halifax, I believe they should 
have asked for further information from Mr S. I believe the errors by Halifax have caused 
Mr S worry and concern and this increased when his complaint was not upheld in December 
2019.
Putting things right
Halifax have offered to carry out an income and expenditure assessment and work out a 
refinancing plan which is affordable for Mr S. I can see that Mr S has told us that he has 
contacted Halifax to try and get this in place. I feel this is a solution which works for both 
parties. The refinancing plan is to arrange for repayment of an overdraft which shouldnt 
have been removed. On this basis, the refinancing plan should involve repayments towards 
the overdraft amount owed without any payment of interest.
  
Halifax have said the smallest monthly payment they can offer is £41.36. Nothing I have said 
prevents Halifax from coming to an arrangement, following the income and expenditure 
assessment, which involves a higher monthly repayment or prevents Mr S from repaying 
lump sums towards the balance. It must however be affordable for Mr S.
 
The repayment plan shouldnt have set the monthly payments at £235 because it wasnt 
affordable for Mr S. In view of this, Halifax put Mr S in a position where there was a 
likelihood that payments would be missed and this would have an impact on his credit file. 
Halifax have told us that the credit file is being reported as clean with no arrangement. 
Halifax should therefore monitor Mr Ss credit file and ensure any arrangement flag, if it 
appears, is deleted. Halifax should also remove any adverse information on Mr Ss credit file 
relating to late/missed payments on the January 2020 repayment plan.   
Halifax should also pay compensation to Mr S. The amount our investigator proposed seems 
fair in this respect. It reflects the shock to Mr S when he first realised his overdraft facility had 
been removed and the further worry and upset caused when receiving Halifaxs letter in 
December 2019 asking him to clear his overdraft. Halifax did then have a chance of trying to 
put things right for Mr S by agreeing a repayment plan but they didnt act in a fair and 
reasonable manner by putting in place a monthly payment amount which wasnt affordable 
for Mr S. I also take into account Mr Ss vulnerability, which Halifax had been made aware of 
during telephone calls with Mr S, and the higher impact this had on him given his medical 
condition.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should:
Carry out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S and set up a refinance 
loan to help pay back the overdraft at an amount which is affordable for Mr S. This 
arrangement shouldnt include any interest.  Review Mr Ss credit file and ensure any arrangement flag, if it appears, is deleted. 
The bank should also remove any adverse information on Mr Ss credit file relating to 
late/missed payments on the repayment plan which started in January 2020.  
Send Mr S a letter of apology
Pay (not credit) Mr S £400 for his trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman