DRN-3231705
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds decision 
to refuse a claim for legal expenses insurance under a Home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S policy was taken out in mid-July 2019. Their garden has a boundary wall and 
in 2018 theyd noticed bulging. They say trees in the neighbouring property, which are close 
to the boundary wall, are the cause of continuing damage to their wall. Its apparent the wall 
has partially collapsed in places, including a section back in 2018. Mr and Mrs S seek legal 
expenses cover to pursue their neighbour who they feel is responsible for the upkeep of the 
trees. Theyre concerned about the danger the wall presents.
DAS considered the claim but rejected it as, in its view, the date of occurrence for the 
originating cause pre-dated the policy and so no cover was in place. 
Mr and Mrs S challenged DAS decision because they say the original collapse, which pre-
dated the policy, is a separate incident from the later collapse. And as the later collapse 
occurred after the policy started DAS should provide cover.
One of our investigators looked at their complaint but didnt think DAS had acted unfairly. 
She explained DAS policy, like many others, excluded claims for any incident or matter 
arising before the start of the policy. In addition, the policy explained that for civil cases, like 
Mr and Mrs S, where there is more than one event arising at different times from the same 
original cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first of these events. She concluded 
DAS acted fairly in treating the damage to the walls as an event starting in 2018, so before 
the policy started. It appeared that the professional recommendation was for four trees to be 
felled in order to arrest further damage being caused to the wall. 
Mr S disagreed asking that matter be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my experience most insurance policies like Mr and Mrs S restrict legal expenses cover to 
events which happen during the period of insurance cover, otherwise known as the insured 
period. Im satisfied thats fair because the nature of insurance is generally meant to cover 
uncertain risks and not inevitable or existing events. And Mr and Mrs S policy is clear that 
for a claim to be covered the date of occurrence of the insured event in civil cases must be 
within the insured period. In this case that means on after the policy started in July 2019.
According to information Mr S has provided, in 2018 he pointed out bulging in the boundary 
wall to his neighbour, which then collapsed in early 2019. He showed this to his neighbour, 
and they agreed not to progress things until after the completion of some unrelated building 
works. In September 2020 Mr S instructed a landscape and arboricultural company to 
inspect four trees in the neighbours garden near the boundary wall. This expert 
recommended the trees be removed as they were impacting on the integrity of the wall. The 
neighbour refused to fell the trees offering an alternative remedy which Mr S couldnt agree 
to. A further partial collapse after this then triggered Mr S to make his insurance claim.
I note other relevant information from Mr S including a suggestion that one of the partial 
failures was due to a storm and the neighbours trees swaying sufficiently to bring down a 
section of the wall. And that Mr S had insurance before 2019 with a different insurer he 
names but didnt have policy details for.
The dispute Mr and Mrs S have with their neighbour concerns the impact of the neighbours 
trees on the integrity of the boundary wall. Its apparent that issue first arose in 2018 with 
Mr S pointing it out and showing the neighbour the partial collapse. Indeed, on Mr S 
information they agreed not to do anything until other building works were completed. This 
was all before the policy with DAS started.
When later events occurred, they were ostensibly of the same subject matter  the 
neighbours trees impacting the integrity of the wall in close proximity to the first partial 
collapse. Having considered this very carefully I am satisfied that its fair for DAS to consider 
the entirety of Mr S claim as a series of events that first started before his insurance policy. 
And, as such, the policy excludes the claim. I dont consider that DAS acted outside the 
policy terms or in any other way unfairly.
Ive noted Mr S introduced the possibility of a storm causing the second partial collapse but 
that wouldnt be a matter for DAS in so far as a legal expenses claim at this stage. Mr and 
Mrs S main Home insurance policy covers storm damage and so theyd need to revert to the 
buildings insurer in the first instance to present a claim for consideration.
Mr S knows who the identity of the insurance company he was insured with prior to July 
2019. While he may not know his policy number the insurer should be able to access his 
policy on other personal information, such as his address or date of birth. While it cant be 
known at this stage if this insurer will cover his claim, he could at least present his claim for 
consideration.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman