DRN-3656171
The complaint
Mr M says EBS Pensions Limited (EBS), the administrator of his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP), breached his instruction by making a property service charge payment out 
of the SIPP in 2021 despite being told, in writing, not to do so. He seeks EBS 
reimbursement of the payment into the SIPP. EBS says the breach of his instruction resulted 
from a misunderstanding on its part, but it disputes his claim for reimbursement and says 
there are credible reasons to justify the payment that was made.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed with EBS. She concluded that 
the complaint should not be upheld. In the main, she said:
The relevant property was held by and in the SIPP, and was leased by Mr Ms 
company (which he co-owns). Therefore, EBS was the proprietor and Mr Ms 
company (the company) was the tenant. Common costs for the property, including 
service charges, were due to and collected by a third party (the TP). The lease 
agreement between EBS and the company made payment of such costs and other 
outgoings the tenants responsibility.
The Trust Deed and Rules for the SIPP, with regards to Expenses and Charges, 
gave EBS discretion to act in the interest of the SIPP and in its interests (as 
administrator or establisher).
There is relevant history in 2019, during which a Statutory Demand (SD) had been 
issued to EBS/its Trustees, under its responsibility as SIPP Trustee and proprietor of 
the property, because of costs for the property that had not been paid. It liaised with     
Mr M at the time and told him it could not be put into another situation in which the 
Trustees were served with an SD. It paid the costs at the time and it says Mr M 
therefore knows that it had previously paid outstanding charges out of the SIPP in 
order to avoid further legal action.
Something similar happened in 2021, whereby EBS received invoices from the TP, 
mainly for unpaid services charges related to the property. It contacted Mr M, 
forwarding the invoices and reminding him their payment was the tenants 
responsibility. It asked him if he would be liaising with the tenant or would prefer the 
invoices to be paid out of the SIPP (and then reimbursed later). Mr M instructed EBS 
to refer the TP back to the tenant. EBS says it made a mistake and misunderstood 
the instruction, because the tenant is the company, of which he is a director, so he 
was therefore aware of the charge. In order to avoid being issued with another SD, 
EBS proceeded to pay the invoices out of the SIPP.
In the circumstances, and despite its error in not following Mr Ms instruction, the 
payment by EBS from the SIPP was not unreasonable. The invoices had to be paid 
in any event, Mr M was aware of them, he was aware of the 2019 history and the 
point he has made about being deprived a reclaim of the VAT element of the charge 
due to the payment from the SIPP has been addressed by EBS. EBS says Mr M 
could still achieve the VAT reclaim if he reimbursed the SIPP with the payment that 
was made. It says in doing that, and with a copy of the invoicing  and a recharge 
invoice it is willing to issue to him for the reimbursement  he will be in a position to 
reclaim the VAT element.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He maintains that payment of the service charges was 
clearly the tenants responsibility, as stated in the lease, and he expressly instructed EBS 
not to pay it from the SIPP, so EBS made an error, admitted that error and promised him a 
refund. The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator.
Mr M is correct about the breach of his instruction. EBS does not dispute that. It accepts it 
did not refer the TP to the tenant as he requested, and it is clear it did not do that. It has also 
explained why it did not do so, and I comment on its explanation below. However, the matter 
does not rest on this aspect alone. 
Evidence shows that  
The TPs invoices were issued/dated on 8 July 2021.
EBS forwarded them to Mr M in an email dated 20 July 2021, along with its enquiry 
on whether to pay them out of the SIPP or to leave it to him to liaise with the tenants 
to make the payment. Mr M replied on the same date with his instruction.
EBS payment (out of the SIPP) of the invoices happened on 5 August 2021.
First, I address EBS error. Having read the communications on 20 July I can see the scope 
for the mistake it made. The idea of having EBS refer the TP to the tenant was not an option 
presented to Mr M. EBS email asked him to confirm his preference between him liaising with 
the tenant to pay the invoices or having EBS pay the invoices out of the SIPP (and then 
having the SIPP reimbursed). I consider that it viewed its email to Mr M as amounting to 
notice to the tenant, given that he was a director in the tenant company. As such, if the 
payment was not to be made from the SIPP, it expected that Mr M and the company will 
address the payment themselves. 
Mr Ms reply created a new alternative. He asked EBS to refer the TP to the tenant. I accept 
that his instruction was clear, but the potential for EBS to continue to expect the matter to be 
actively addressed by him and the company remained. EBS probably, and reasonably, 
considered that he could not ignore what he already knew. He knew the invoices existed and 
were due, he had copies of them and he knew their payment was his companys 
responsibility. Hence a basis for EBS to have believed the matter was in his and the 
companys hands. It is even possible, if not probable, that it viewed Mr Ms reply as 
affirmation of this  in other words, the notion of referring the TP to the tenant meant the 
tenant will be addressing the matter.
On the above basis, I do not find that EBS breach of the instruction  by failing to refer the 
TP to the tenant as it was asked to do  was negligent or was without a plausible 
justification.
The 2019 history is relevant, as is EBS responsibilities towards all relevant parties  Mr M, the TP, its Trustees and to the SIPP itself. It has shared evidence of the master trust deed 
used for the SIPP and its SIPP products in general. It was obliged to uphold the contents 
and effect of the deed and to uphold the interests of its Trustees, its schemes and of the 
SIPP. In this context, the prospect of facing another SD in 2021, after the SD it faced in 
2019, was not something it could be passive or indifferent towards.
Mr M was aware of the events in 2019. There was a threat, carried with the SD at the time, 
that EBS could face a winding-up order if the SD was not treated within 21 days, and 
lawyers were already engaged in the recovery pursuit at the time. EBS paid the 2019 
charges to avoid undue escalation and to protect the SIPP, its Trustees and its SIPP 
schemes from the SDs threats. I agree with its explanation that, given the single master 
deed, there was potential for escalated court action to affect its ability to administer its 
schemes. It is also noteworthy that the deed gave it discretion, in terms of expenses and 
charges, to act in the interests of the SIPP and of its administration  as it did in this case. 
In the above overall circumstances, it is more likely (than not) that EBS expected the 
company to pay the invoices on or soon after 20 July; that its 2019 experience gave it 
reason to monitor the matter, so it did that; and upon the 12th business day after 20 July and 
with no confirmation of payment by the company, it decided to safeguard all the interests I 
mentioned above by making the payment out of the SIPP. Overall, on balance and for the 
reasons I have addressed I do not consider that to have been unreasonable. It follows from 
this finding that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint or the claim for compensation he has 
made. EBS invitation to assist him, on the terms it has set out, with the reclaiming of the 
payments VAT element appears to remain open, so he can consider that further if he wishes 
to. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman