DRN-2467166
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to decline a claim he made. Mr
W claimed under his home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
In November 2019 a plumber was carrying out a routine service on Mr Ws boiler. Mr W
asked him to look at putting a radiator and towel rail in a ground floor bathroom in the future.
Mr W told Covea the following day that the plumber raised concerns about damage in the
bathroom. He said the plumber could smell damp and noticed the floor had dropped in the
shower area. Mr W said he had lived in the property for three years and the plumber
suggested there were leaks and the problem had been ongoing for some time.
Covea instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor concluded that the
damage was caused by a failure in the sealant and grout in the shower area. The surveyor
also concluded that the damage had been long standing over a period of time. So Covea
declined Mr Ws claim. It said the damage was excluded from cover under the policy.
Mr W contacted Covea again in December 2019 as a bathroom fitter had discovered that
underneath the bath, a connection pipe from the bath waste wasnt connected and this had
caused water to leak from the bath to the floor underneath. The fitter wrote that on removing
the floor tiles, the ply was soaking wet and through to the joists which were rotten.
Regarding the shower area, the fitter noticed black marks on the left and right side of
shower. And he said that on the left hand side outside the shower cubicle was a big hole.
Mr W said the fitter didnt agree that the case of damage was due to a lack of sealant or
grout.
Covea still declined Mr Ws claim. So Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted
Covea to meet his claim as the cause of the damage was due to the unconnected bath
waste pipe.
Our investigator initially thought the report provided by the surveyor was more persuasive
than the letter provided by the bathroom fitter. And so he didnt recommend Mr Ws
complaint should be upheld.
Mr W provided a further letter from the bathroom fitting company which reiterated their
findings when they stripped the bathroom. Mr W says the bathroom has since been refitted.
Our investigator sent a copy of the updated letter to Covea, but its position remained
unchanged. The investigator issued a second view. He thought that Coveas decision to
decline the claim for damage in the shower cubicle area was reasonable due to a failing in
the sealant/grout. But he thought it wasnt fair for Covea to decline the claim for damage
caused by the bathroom waste pipe. He thought Covea should cover any part of the claim
caused by the leaking waste pipe under the bath. He also recommended Covea pay interest
on the cost of the insured work at 8% simple per year, from the date the consumer paid for
the work to be done to the date the insurer settled the claim.
Covea didnt agree. It said it declined the claim for two reasons: a failing in the sealant and 
because it was an ongoing problem some time. Covea says the plumbers findings along 
with Mr Ws comments in his initial call support the view that on balance the leak underneath 
the bath was ongoing for some time. So it says it correctly declined Mr Ws claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2020 to both parties. I thought while both 
experts disagreed on the cause of damage, they agreed that the damage had been ongoing 
for some time and this meant Mr Ws claim wasnt covered. So I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. But I said I would consider any new representations from Mr W.
Mr W told our investigator he received my provisional decision, but he hasnt provided any 
new information. Covea hasnt replied. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no new information, my final decision is on the same lines as my provisional 
decision.
Insurance policies are intended to provide cover for specified perils, rather than for anything
that might happen to a property. These perils include fire, theft, and subsidence as a few
examples. Anything outside of these perils is an uninsured loss and so wouldnt be covered
by the policy.
Mr Ws policy provides cover for the insured event of an escape of water. Covea, like many
insurers, has terms and exclusions for each level of cover it provides. Ive read the policy
which forms the contract between Mr W and Covea and the key part reads:
Escape of Water  The insurer will not pay for:
 Loss or damage caused by the failure, or lack of grout and/or sealant;
 Loss or damage to property that happens gradually over a period of time
When deciding if Covea has acted reasonably in declining Mr Ws claim, Ive considered the
findings of the bathroom fitter and the surveyor instructed by Covea. Ive also reviewed the
photos provided by both Mr W and the surveyor.
The bathroom fitters key comments are that there was evidence of damp as there were
black damp marks to the left and right of the shower cubicle. After removing a sink unit and
bathroom panel, the fitter found further evidence of extreme black damp. The fitter
discovered that the bath waste pipe that runs into an elbow joint to a pipe coming from
underneath the floor was not connected. The plywood underneath the floor tiles when
removed was completely saturated and the joints disintegrated on touch.
The surveyor reported that the damage was caused by a failure in the sealant/grout and has
been ongoing for a long period of time.
The bathroom fitter disagreed with the surveyors opinion that the cause of the damage was
due to a lack of sealant or grout. However, he concluded:The amount of damp and severity of water damage has been caused by an
excessive amount of water over a period of time. As the waste pipe was not
connected, every time the customer has been filling the bath with the water, the
water has been saturating into the floor and flowing to the shower area, which has
caused severe damage to the floor and joists. As a result of this the floor had
dropped and was very unsafe. I believe this is the root cause of the problem, which
has been an incidental finding when removing the bathroom suite.
Based on the bathroom fitters findings, I think on balance there were signs of an issue given
the visible black damp marks and the dropped floor. Mr W confirmed he could smell damp in
the bathroom in his initial call to Covea, but it isnt clear for how long.
Although the fitter disagreed with the surveyors view as to the cause of damage, he
confirms that the leak under the bath had been ongoing over a period of time.
So on balance, I think the damage caused to both the shower area and underneath the bath
had been ongoing over time. Even though the experts disagree as to the cause of damage
to the shower area, they agree that the water damage in the bathroom has been a long
standing issue.
I understand Mr W will be disappointed. But I think Coveas decision to decline Mr Ws claim 
was reasonable and in line with the policy. As the damage had occurred gradually over time, 
Mr Ws claim isnt covered. So I dont think Covea needs to do anymore
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman