DRN-4436637
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from MoneyBoat here is a brief loan table.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 16/03/2020 14/04/2020 4 £56.65
2 £200.00 17/04/2020 19/05/2020 4 £57.77
3 £500.00 22/05/2020 27/04/2021 6 £100.81
After Mr S representative had complained to MoneyBoat on his behalf, it sent the final
response letter (FRL). That FRL outlined the reasons MoneyBoat gave as to why it
considered sufficient and proportionate checks had been done and it did not uphold Mr S
complaint. That FRL included the facts which were that:
it increased Mr S declared expenditure sums in line with its own research;
still Mr S had between £460 and £550 left over each month with which to afford the
MoneyBoat loans;
between September 2019 and August 2022 Mr S had applied for credit ten times;
it had declined loans for Mr S in the past;
when it had approved a loan, it was for less than the sum Mr S had applied for;
before approving loan 3 it had asked Mr S to confirm several things to assure
MoneyBoat as to his situation. Mr S did that.
it was aware of Mr S historic County Court Judgments (CCJs).
Mr S representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in
December 2022. One of our adjudicators considered it and he thought that the four CCJs
registered in the searches MoneyBoat carried out showed he was not managing his money.
And it was not just the presence of the CCJs but also the fact that Mr S had failed to repay
the judgment debts which came to over £5,400. So, our adjudicator thought that MoneyBoat
should not have lent to Mr S at all.
MoneyBoat disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to an ombudsman to 
decide.
Having reviewed the complaint, the ombudsman asked Mr S for additional information about 
his finances. These queries included more information about why he had not repaid the 
judgment debts which dated from September 2016 to March 2018. The ombudsman also 
asked about his existing residential mortgage which had been in a state of delinquency 
since November 2019. Finally, she asked what it was that had changed after Mr S had 
repaid five of the six instalments for loan 3.
MoneyBoat provided details about the declined loans including the dates and reasons for
them being refused. Those details were:
There were two applications 10/6/20 and 11/6/20 - these were not 
progressed as the previous loan taken was still running.
As well:
11/9/2019: Failed lending assessment.
11/12/2019: Failed lending assessment
There were as well three after our loans, 18/9/2021 and two on 10/8/2022 which also
failed our assessment process.
Mr S responded in part to the requests for more details and told us I lost my job in 2015.
And I was in and out of employment. Mr S also sent us bank account statements from
December 2019 to end of June 2020.
My colleague issued a provisional decision setting out her thoughts of the complaint in 
September 2023 and a copy of her provisional decision can be found below, in smaller font 
and it forms part of this final decision. 
Both parties have been given an opportunity to raise any new points they wanted to make 
before a final decision is made. 
Mr Ss representative acknowledged the provisional decision but didnt have anything further 
to add. 
MoneyBoat said it had nothing further to add but it did confirm that loan three had been 
repaid in April 2021. 
What was said in the provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve considered a number of different things,
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr S income and
expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S.MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr S complaint.
The amended loan table combined with the information from MoneyBoat about the refused
and non-progressed loans looks like this:
loan date applied outcome of application repaid date
11 September 2019 Failed lending assessment
11 December 2019 Failed lending assessment
1 16 March 2020 £200 funded 16 April 2020
2 17 April 2020 £200 funded 19 May 2020
3 22 May 2020 £500 funded Defaulted - closed 27 
April 2021
10 June 2020 Not progressed as loan 3 
still in place
11 June 2020 Not progressed as loan 3 
still in place
18 September 2021 Failed lending assessment
10 August 2022 Failed lending assessment
There were two failed loan applications within a relatively short period before loan 1, plus
MoneyBoat likely had the CCJ records. The most recent one was from March 2018 so not
that long before Mr S had first applied to it in September 2019.
The CCJs on their own do not necessarily lead me to think that the loan applications ought
to have been refused, but together with the declined loan applications in September and
December 2019 then I think that MoneyBoat ought to have got to the bottom of Mr S
financial situation before approving any loans for him. So, I think that additional checks ought
to have been carried out by MoneyBoat.
One way to have done this would have been to have asked for details of Mr S income using
payslips and other documents to show his expenditure. Another more convenient method to
see what Mr S income and expenditure was, would have been to have reviewed bank
statements. I appreciate they do not present all the details or facts but I consider it
reasonable to review those provided by Mr S.
Ive reviewed those bank statements sent to me from late December 2019 onwards. Mr S
wages looked to be about £280 a week  sometimes up to £310 a week. That translates to
have been around £1,200 to £1,300 each month after tax. I do not consider that to have
been a high wage.
Mr S was paying £25 a week to a debt collector for two accounts. From 22 January 2020 he
was paying a further £12 to a second debt collector for a third account. This changed in
February 2020 to the repayment of just one for £12 a week. In March 2020 this changed
again to be the payment of a total of just under £43 a week to three different debt collectors.Mr S was using the services of a high-cost lender linked to his bank account which provided
funds to be drawn down and then these were repaid with his wages automatically. Mr S was
drawing down money every week and repaying regular as these repayments often are taken
automatically and often were the same amount as his wages.
In relation to his outgoings  the only ones I can see which were regular were to a media
company around £100 a month plus to a credit card around £20 which looked to have been
a minimum repayment. Mr S appeared to repay a company Ill call KR which offered
savings and mortgages and as I know Mr S was in delinquency status with his mortgage I
think those occasional repayments were to that mortgage account rather than savings.
I cross-referenced these details from the statements with the credit file searches MoneyBoat
had done and have sent to us and it seems that these repayments dovetailed with the
reduction of the overall balance on the mortgage debt.
Loan 1 was approved just as the Covid 19 national pandemic and lockdown commenced.
I note that Mr S salary reduced and he started to claim Universal Credit from 6 April 2020.
These alterations may have been linked with the lockdown arrangements.
As I have already indicated, I had reviewed the credit search results MoneyBoat had sent to
us before asking Mr S for additional information. From those I have seen that Mr S had poor
repayment status, was taking cash advances on his credit card(s), had active CCJs
amounting to over £5,400, and his mortgage account was in delinquent status. The
scheduled repayments were meant to be £331 a month and as I have already indicated the
bank statements appear to show that Mr S was repaying to it as and when he could and
often much lower sums than £331. So, it was unlikely Mr S was going to be able to catch-up
on these arrears.
Ive reviewed the credit search results for when Mr S applied for loans 2 and 3 and the
situation had not much improved.
Overall, I consider that MoneyBoat ought not to have lent to Mr S. I am planning to uphold
Mr S complaint.
I do not know the up-to-date position on loan 3 as the MoneyBoat account notes for that loan
end in December 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr Ss representative and MoneyBoat had nothing further to add in response to my 
colleagues provisional decision. Having reconsidered everything, I am in agreement with the 
outcome that my colleague reached, and I see no reason to depart from those findings. 
MoneyBoat has confirmed that the final loan has been repaid, and in order to avoid a further 
provisional decision Ive kept the redress calculation the same because it will still lead to 
Mr S receiving a refund of any interest, fees and charges. 
Therefore, MoneyBoat shouldnt have granted any of the loans to Mr S and Ive outlined 
below what it needs to do in order to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Mr S at all as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it
has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr S any of the loans. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S 
having made overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D.  If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to the loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr S as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman