DRN-1755447
The complaint 
Mr S complaint is about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and its decision to refuse to accept his 
claim under a travel insurance policy, such as additional accommodation and rescue 
helicopter costs after his friend suffered a fatal injury while hiking up a mountain with Mr S. 
Mr S and another friend became lost and needed to be rescued. Mr S also says that UKI 
gave misleading information about the cover for accommodation under the policy when he 
first contacted it and led him to believe that the additional cost would be covered, and didnt 
deal with his initial calls professionally.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  Complains about freedom of 
information requests arent a matter for this service so I wont deal with this point below.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The policy only covered Mr S and so only costs relating to him would be covered, 
rather than costs related to his uninsured friends. The policy sets out clearly what is 
and isnt covered, and it covers hiking up to a level of 3000 metres above sea level. 
There is no option to cover mountain climbing but hiking above 3000 metres can be 
covered if an additional premium is paid; Mr S didnt have such additional cover.
Theres a dispute over whether Mr S was hiking or climbing as press reports say the 
group were using ropes and Mr S mentioned that he had a qualification in mountain 
climbing. I think its difficult to put much weight on the press reports as the source of 
the information is unknown and I note UKI in the end focused on the height issue. 
The rescue helicopter confirmed to UKI that the fall took place at about 3380 metres 
and the rescue was at around 3120 metres; both of these heights are above 3000 
metres. Mr S says the helicopter evidence cant be relied upon for several reasons, 
but UKI can only proceed on the evidence it received. Mr S later produced further 
evidence from the helicopter company, but it still said the rescue was above 3000 
metres. I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to place greater weight on the evidence 
of the independent helicopter report and to find that its more likely than not Mr S was 
above 3000 metres. I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to refuse to pay Mr S 
share of the helicopter costs.
While the accommodation costs incurred by Mr S due to the accident are legally not 
covered by the terms and conditions of the policy, I do think that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for UKI to refuse to cover Mr S share for the night of 3 June 2019, and 
this should be paid. The evidence suggests that there was a discussion about those 
costs and I bear in mind that its likely Mr S was distressed by what had happened. 
Even UKI in its final response accepted Mr S had booked this accommodation with 
its advice in mind and paid £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
advice.
But I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline to pay the rest of Mr S 
accommodation claim. He decided to stop camping as he felt unsafe, but this isnt an insured event. And UKI made it clear on 4 June that there was a serious question 
over coverage due to the height of the hiking and because Mr S wasnt going home 
early. Mr S said that he would proceed on the basis that he wasnt covered, which 
due to the terms and conditions of the policy was correct, but means he didnt book 
further accommodation on the basis of advice from UKI.
Mr S has complained about customer service generally by UKI. I can see that he did 
have to speak to several people, but that isnt uncommon and I note at least one 
member of staff asked for Mr S to be put through to her if she was present to avoid 
repetition.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr S complaint, 
UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr S share of his accommodation for the night of 3 June 
2019. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman