DRN-2640972
The complaint
Mr P complained that he had unfairly overpaid for his buildings and contents policy with 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) and he also said he had paid for two 
policies on the same property at the same time.
What happened
Mr P said he took over his mother's house when she died in 2012 and took out a new policy 
on the house with Lloyds. In 2018, Mr P said he found his mothers original policy and said 
he realised he had been paying for two policies. He said his mothers policy hadnt been 
cancelled and it had automatically renewed each year. He said Lloyds shouldve stopped his 
mothers policy when she died.
Mr P said he allowed his policy to renew each year. He didnt shop around as he didnt know 
any better and he trusted the Lloyds brand. However, at the 2018 renewal he became 
concerned at what he was paying, so he contacted Lloyds. He thought that a claim made by 
his mother in 2011 may still have been impacting the premium price. He searched the 
market and found some similar policies with Lloyds that were cheaper online. He thought the 
price he was paying was unfair. So, he complained to Lloyds and he wanted to be 
compensated for the overpayment of premiums.
Lloyds reviewed the circumstances of the complaint. It confirmed only one policy had been 
taken out on the property, the original policy that was taken out by Mr Ps mother which was 
later transferred into Mr Ps name. Lloyds said it hadnt followed the correct process for an 
estate going through probate. It said this led to confusion with the policy and meant it was 
left in Mr Ps late mothers name until 2018. It has paid £150 to Mr P in compensation for the 
inconvenience this has caused.
Lloyds said the impact of the claim in 2011 on the premium price was treated correctly and 
the no claims discount for the policy was reinstated to the maximum level for the 2013 
renewal.
Lloyds also said the premiums charged were correct for the cover provided across the years. 
It said at each renewal, communications were sent out to indicate the quotation is only an 
invite to renew your insurance with us and you do not have to accept this if the premium 
does not reflect the cover and service you require. Lloyds said it encouraged customers to 
contact them to discuss their options.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be partially upheld. She saw no evidence 
to suggest there were ever two policies in place at the same time, but she did think Lloyds 
had unfairly charged Mr P for the original policy in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and recommended 
Lloyds pay £110.58 to Mr P for this.. Lloyds disagreed as it said Mr P had the capacity to 
engage with them in these years to discuss his policy, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first considered Mr Ps claim that he paid for two policies at the same time for the 
property. Lloyds has explained it failed to follow the correct process when Mr Ps mothers 
estate was going through probate. I think this may have caused the confusion. Lloyds have 
said the original policy (in Mr Ps mothers name) was initially cancelled in May 2012, but 
was re-instated in June 2012 at the request of Mr P. The premiums were then paid by Mr P 
from this point, however, the policy was not transferred to his name until February 2018.
Lloyds have confirmed there was only ever one policy on this address. Our investigator did 
ask Mr P to provide evidence of there been payments on two separate policies. As no 
evidence has been provided, I think it is reasonable to conclude that only one policy has 
existed at the address, the one that was transferred into Mr Ps name in 2018. Therefore, I 
am unable to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Mr P thought he had been overpaying for his policy. He said when he looked at online prices 
available in 2018 they were much lower than what he had been paying. I have considered if 
Mr P was treated fairly when his policy was automatically renewed. When a consumer takes 
out or renews an insurance policy, the insurer will decide how much to charge for it. This 
policy is 'underwritten' based on information gathered about the consumer and their 
circumstances. Underwriters will weigh up the risk factors and decide whether to offer a 
policy and at what price. For me to find that Mr P has been treated unfairly, I need to 
examine if Lloyds have treated him any differently to any of its other customers who may 
have had similar circumstances.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Lloyds has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Ps price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this, but rest assured Ive checked it 
carefully. Ill explain whether I think Lloyds have treated Mr P fairly.
Mr P allowed his policy to automatically renew each year and didnt engage with Lloyds 
between 2010 and 2018 to discuss getting a policy at a better price. Lloyds has said there 
was no evidence that Mr P was vulnerable and unable to engage with Lloyds, and it pointed 
to his engagement in 2018 as proof of this. Mr P told our investigator he didnt engage as he 
didnt know any better and he trusted the Lloyds brand.
The policy was first taken out in 2010 and Lloyds have been able to explain how the price 
has changed up until 2014. Its normal for policies to increase over time. Often a new 
customer discount is applied when the policy is first taken out and our service thinks its fair 
that premiums increase to recoup this discount over the first few years. Mr P was concerned 
the claim his mother made in 2011 may have been unfairly impacting the premium that had 
been paid in later years. Lloyds has explained the claim did impact on premiums initially, but 
by the 2013 renewal Mr P was benefiting from a full no claims bonus. From what I have 
seen, I have no concerns with how the policy was priced to 2014.
When customers dont engage with the cost of their policy at renewal year on year, we refer 
to this as price inertia. From the inertia point, our service doesnt think its fair to increase the 
premium each year just because of a lack of engagement  as to do so would be taking 
advantage of the fact a consumer wasnt engaging, or them being inert. So, Id expect 
Lloyds to explain why it has applied the increases it did each year from 2014 to demonstrate 
it was treating Mr P fairly. Lloyds said Mr P wasnt vulnerable. I agree, but it doesnt change 
my view that Mr P still needs to be treated fairly and in the same way as other customers.Whilst Lloyds can provide justification of the price changes to 2014, I havent seen any 
justification in the subsequent three years. The price Mr P has paid, has meant he was 
paying more than the target price that Lloyds set as a maximum price point for its other 
customers who had similar circumstances. 
Lloyds said Mr P had the ability to engage with it to discuss changing the details of his cover 
but chose not to. So, it didnt think it was appropriate to refund any excess premiums above 
the target price. I disagree. I dont think its fair that Lloyds have charged Mr P a higher price 
than it would have charged other customers. I dont think this is reasonable, so I uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. I require Lloyds to refund the difference in premiums paid by Mr P in 
2015, 2016 and 2017 when compared to its target price  a total of £110.58. As Mr P has 
been without this money, I also require Lloyds to add 8% simple interest from the date the 
premiums were paid to the date when the refund is paid.
I have not added any compensation to my decision, as I think the £150 Lloyds has already 
paid Mr P is enough to compensate him for the inconvenience he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to:
Refund the difference in premiums paid by Mr P in 2015, 2016 and 2017 when 
compared to their target price  a total of £110.58
Add 8% simple interest* from the date the premiums were paid to the date when the 
refund is paid
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Lloyds must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr P 
asks for one.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman