DRN-4116608
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined her 
claim for theft of shoes under her home insurance policy and about the service received.
What happened
Unfortunately, Ms Bs designer wedding shoes went missing during the course of her 
wedding day in November 2022. The shoes had been bought by Ms Bs father as a present. 
Ms B had been wearing them throughout the day, but as they were high, they started to hurt 
her feet. She took them off and placed them on the table next to the wedding cake. Ms B 
said they were taken from the table and the next day she was unable to find them. She 
spoke to all her guests and the venue, but the shoes couldnt be found.
Ms B claimed for her loss under her home insurance policy provided by Admiral. However, 
Admiral declined her claim and said that her loss wasnt covered under the policy. Ms B 
complained to Admiral about its decision to decline her claim and also about the way in 
which Admirals representative responded during to her during an online chat about the 
claim. Admiral maintained its position and Ms B referred her complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He considered that the relevant 
policy exclusion was clear as regards items not being worn or carried, or within reach of the 
claimant or his/her family. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Admiral to state that the 
wedding shoes werent within reach all night. As to the service issue and use of informal 
language, the investigator noted that the relevant staff member had apologised immediately, 
and he didnt recommend that Admiral take any further action in this respect.
Ms B remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues for me to determine here are whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining Ms Bs claim and in the manner its staff member discussed her claim with her on a 
chat facility. I consider that it did act in a fair and reasonable manner, and Ill explain why. In 
reaching this decision Ive also noted the submissions of both parties, as summarised below.
Ms B said that the wedding was at an exclusive use venue. She said that Admiral initially 
explained the decision to decline being due to the shoes not being left in a secure location 
such as a hotel room. Ms B thought that the whole venue was a secure location due to its 
exclusive use, for which shed paid extra. She said that entry was only allowed to a certain 
approved list of people. She said that Admiral was now using an exclusion based on the 
notion that items werent kept with herself or her family at the time of the loss or damage. Ms 
B said that the shoes were pictured with her and next to the cake so should be deemed to be 
within reach. She asked; how much closer can I be. Ms B said that they were expensive 
shoes, and she was now unable to wear them again. 
As to the service issue, Ms B complained about the representatives comment about the final 
response as follows; I do apologise that you didnt get this sooner, it was set as a task for 
your file handler but as you can imagine, they have a lot of tasks to complete and yours was 
in the que [sic] so it would have come eventually. Ms B also felt that the representative had 
ended the chat without her agreement.
I now turn to Admirals submissions on the matter. As Ms B was away from the insured 
home at the time of the theft, it said that the relevant sections of the policy were the Away 
from Home section of the policy. It said that the Contents Insurance: Theft and Attempted 
theft section only covered thefts from the home. As to cover away from home it quoted the 
exclusion clause relied upon. This referred to items not being worn or carried or within reach 
of the insured person or her family. Admiral thought that the shoes were unattended and not 
with Ms B or a family member when they were stolen. It said that this meant that the policy 
exclusion had been applied correctly despite use of the venue being exclusive. 
As to the service issue, Admiral assured Ms B that it took Ms Bs claim seriously. It didnt 
consider that this complaint point should be upheld. Having seen a transcript of the 
comments made by the relevant staff member, Admiral said that this didnt change its view 
as the representative had immediately apologised following the comment in question.
Having carefully considered all evidence and submissions, the reasons for my decision not 
to uphold Ms Bs complaint are as follows.
The policy terms and conditions are the starting point for insurance complaints of this nature. 
These provisions form the basis of the contract between the insurance company and the 
customer. Insurance cover doesnt apply to all eventualities and invariably, policies have 
certain exclusions. These reflect risks which insurance companies are prepared and not 
prepared to accept.
In the case of Ms Bs policy, under the section; Cover away from your home, under the 
heading what is not covered, it refers to; Loss of or damage to items that are not with you 
or your family at the time of the loss or damage (for example, items that are not being worn 
or carried, or are not within reach of, you or your family). I consider this wording to be clear.
I note the photographic evidence supplied by Ms B and see that at some stage of the 
evening the shoes were indeed within reach of Ms B or her family and were next to the 
wedding cake. Ms B accepts however that at some stage, the shoes were taken from the 
table and then disappeared. I also appreciate that Ms B had paid extra to ensure exclusive 
use of the wedding venue. Unfortunately for Ms B however, it was reasonable for Admiral to 
state that the policy exclusion nevertheless applied. Im satisfied that Ms B wasnt wearing or 
carrying the shoes at the time of loss. Also, on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that 
at the time of loss, it was highly unlikely that the shoes were within reach of Ms B or her 
family, otherwise Ms B or her family members would have prevented the loss.
As to the comments of Admirals representative in the on-line chat about the claim, I dont 
consider that this indicated that Admiral hadnt taken the claim seriously. It appears to have 
been an informal but honest comment about delays which had occurred in sending the final 
decision letter. I also note that towards the end of the chat, the representative had allowed 
an opportunity for Ms B to comment before closing the chat. In the circumstances I dont 
consider that Admirals representative acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. I therefore 
dont uphold this service element of Ms Bs complaint.I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms B, however I consider 
that this is a fair and reasonable outcome bearing in mind the facts of the case in the light of 
the clear policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint and I dont require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman