DRN-4051227
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him being the victim of 
a scam on his joint account.
What happened
While this is a joint account, only one of the parties was involved in the transactions and 
scam. So I will only refer to Mr W in this decision, as I do not need to refer to the joint 
account holder who was not party to the scam.
Mr W has explained to us that he became involved in two separate investment scams. He 
became involved in one scam after receiving a social media message from someone about 
investing  scam M, and the other hes explained he was recommended to invest in by a 
friend  scam S.
Mr W has provided us with messages between him and the individual he met on social 
media. And I can see they exchanged messages personally before she added him to a 
separate group with another party  a supposed broker for M. These messages show, up to 
a point, what steps Mr W was asked to take to invest in M.
Mr W has provided separate messages on a different platform for the scam with S. These all 
show the steps he was asked to take for his initial payments. And the issues he had later 
when he wanted to withdraw funds.
Mr W invested in both scams during March 2021. He realised the investments werent 
genuine at the end of March 2021, but made the last payment in desperation to try and 
recover any of his funds. HSBC did try and recover funds Mr W send to international payees, 
but they werent able to. He explained that hed received some of the payments into a 
genuine cryptocurrency platform, so HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding these, as he had the 
benefit of these funds. And it determined that a chargeback claim on the debit card 
payments wouldnt have been successful.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service and said HSBC needed to reverse the payments. 
At this time it seemed that Mr W was possibly only involved in one scam, but as above, he 
later clarified there were two separate scams and set out to us which payments went to 
which. Our investigator partially upheld the case. Mr W accepted, but HSBC asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. So it was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in early March 2023. My findings were as follows:
Our investigator said that HSBC shouldve intervened on the fourth payment Mr W 
made to these scams, a card payment of £4,000. Im in agreement with her on this 
point, as this payment meant Mr W had sent a large amount in one day (over £7,000) 
and his spending was uncharacteristic considering the normal account activity.
However Im not in agreement that an intervention by HSBC wouldve stopped Mr W 
going ahead with either scam. Ill explain why.
In relation to M, Mr W has explained he was messaging with an individual he met 
online and then they introduced him to M. Hes explained he did demo trading to 
understand how it worked before he started putting real money in. So he had an 
ongoing relationship with this person and M before he began sending funds, and the 
point at which I consider HSBC shouldve spoken to him. I can also see from the 
conversations we do have that Mr W had a good relationship with the individual and 
they suggested they were profiting from the investment too.
Its not only the messages but also Mr Ws behaviour that convince me he had a 
good relationship with the parties involved in this this scam. Around a week after 
investing real funds, Mr W tried to make a withdrawal and had difficulties. And at this 
time he was then told hed made an error and was asked to deposit more money  
10,000. He responds with Wow ok. That doesnt really make sense because I have 
already deposit 9000. But ok. He did point out he didnt have to do this before. But 
he didnt argue with the parties or seemingly do any research into M or these kind of 
investments at this point to verify why hed need to send so much money to withdraw. 
He just sent further funds.
At the time of this message there were warnings about M online in the UK and 
abroad. So if Mr W had done a search online or any research, considering, as he has 
said himself, what he was being asked to do didnt make sense, he likely wouldve 
seen this was a scam. But he was trusting of what the parties told him and instead 
paid more money in, despite clear concerns.
In relation to S, Mr W has explained that when he paid the third parties, they then 
topped up his genuine cryptocurrency account and he used this to invest in the scam. 
This is a convoluted and unusual way for a scammer to operate, but due to this, I 
also think its most likely that any questioning or scam warning by HSBC wouldnt 
have been effective.
Mr W had completed this process with S and received the funds prior to when I think 
HSBC shouldve intervened. So he wouldve been confident it was likely to be a 
genuine venture. It is unusual for a scammer to take funds from someone and then 
give them back, for them to send on again. This doesnt fit the normal scams we see 
and does allude to some genuine trust between the parties. And Mr W understood 
the trader he was using was based abroad, so while HSBC could have explained 
about checking for UK regulation, Im not confident that this wouldve concerned Mr 
W enough to stop him investing.
Im also not confident an intervention wouldve stopped Mr W investing because hed 
been recommended this investment through someone who he was friends with and 
knew well. I appreciate it turns out they were also being scammed, but considering 
their confidence and perceived success in the venture, I dont think a scam warning 
from HSBC wouldve been enough to prevent Mr W from continuing with S. Even 
when he did have concerns about M, he continued investing and he found this 
opportunity through someone online. So I think the personal relationship that led him 
to invest in S wouldve prevented him being concerned that HSBCs warning applied 
to his situation.
I dont think that any of the other payments to this scam ought to have triggered 
further interventions by HSBC  as they are equal to or less than the first set of 
payments Mr W sent. And as I dont consider an intervention call wouldve prevented 
him investing in either opportunity, I dont consider HSBC should refund him any of 
the payments he made.In relation to recovery of the funds, I dont think HSBC was able to recover any 
money for Mr W. I agree it should have discussed chargeback claims for the debit 
card payments at an earlier time, but these payments did all go to genuine 
cryptocurrency firms, so chargeback most likely wouldnt have been successful.
In relation to the international payments and bill payments, HSBC did attempt 
recovery where it had enough information to do so, but there isnt any evidence to 
suggest funds remained for Mr W to have returned to him. Mr W has also told us he 
received the requested cryptocurrency in his genuine accounts from these brokers. 
While I accept he then lost this money to the scams from these platforms, his HSBC 
account isnt the point of loss for these funds. The brokers seemingly did pay him 
back what he paid them, but the cryptocurrency was lost to the scammers after this 
from the genuine platforms.
I accept Mr W has lost a large amount of money to these two scams and this has had 
a big impact on him. But I dont intend to ask HSBC to refund him anything hes lost.
HSBC didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr W disagreed with my outcome and 
responded with further comments and provided some additional screenshots which showed 
more of his conversations with the parties involved in M. And what hed been supplied to 
convince him they were a genuine investment venture. So the case has now been returned 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ws screenshots and while they do show more of the conversation than we 
previously held, they dont change my outcome here. I can see Mr W had some concerns 
about investing further, and that he did get frustrated with the scammers, but first, these 
conversations are dated after the key point I set out in my provisional decision. And, as I did 
already set out, I cant agree the actions he took were enough considering these doubts. 
Had Mr W done any online searches for M on 10 March 2021, when his conversation clearly 
shows he was aware what he had been told would happen, wasnt what was happing, he 
shouldve seen the negative information about M. But despite the discrepancies in what he 
was being told, he continued investing.
Mr W has provided me with the paperwork M sent him to prove it was an official investment 
firm, but I cant agree this means he did suitable research. As Mr W is now aware, this 
paperwork was fabricated by the scammer. And I cant say that asking a potential scam 
party to prove their authenticity is the best way to determine if you are being scammed  
they unlikely to be honest. Mr W ought to have done independent research  and from this 
he couldve realised he was the victim of a scam. Mr W has said he did this, but its unclear 
then why he didnt see the warnings. For example he had the company address and 
searching this wouldve brought these up.
Mr W has said he didnt have a close relationship with the people involved in M. And he 
didnt trust them, but had no choice but to keep going with the investment. However, the 
messages Ive seen do suggest a level of friendship with the scammer. And in any event, he 
did have a choice to keep investing. Hes also said in his conversations that he was doing 
this as a hobby and not to make money.Mr W has discussed how HSBC failed in its obligations. But I agreed with this in my 
provisional decision and said it shouldve contacted him, but I didnt agree this wouldve 
unravelled the scam. And considering hes now added he had no choice but to continue 
going to get his money back, this supports my conclusion that HSBC intervening wouldnt 
have prevented him going ahead with the investments.
Ultimately Mr W has asked me to give him the benefit of the doubt, but that isnt my role. I 
have to weigh up the evidence I hold and decide, where something has gone wrong, what 
most likely wouldve happened if it hadnt. In this case I still maintain that its most likely an 
intervention call by HSBC wouldnt have unravelled this scam. And that Mr W had enough 
red flags about what was going on to stop, but instead sent more funds. This includes after 
hes told us he knew it was a scam. So I dont consider HSBC calling him and giving him 
scam information wouldnt have been enough to prevent him continuing. I do appreciate hes 
been the victim of two cruel scams, but I dont agree HSBC is responsible for the losses in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman