DRN-3320063
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Banks refusal to
give her a refund.
What happened
I set out the background to Mrs Ms complaint in the provisional decision I issued in January 
2022. But for ease of reading I will set out the background again here in this decision.
Mrs M has a credit card account with Tesco Bank. Mrs M tells us in January 2018 she used 
her Tesco Bank credit card to buy a course of six sessions for laser hair removal from a 
supplier I will call F.  
Mrs M made the purchase over the phone and it appears she received no invoice at the time 
to confirm the purchase. Mrs M explains she already had four to five sessions in hand. Mrs 
M tells us that at the point when she bought the six new sessions, she was told she could 
use these six sessions as and when she needed to. Specifically, she was told that this bulk 
purchase of six sessions was not subject to any time limit about when she had to use them.
She describes how the treatments worked. There were according to Mrs M, a number of 
restrictions in relation to the treatments, such as there had to be sufficient hair growth 
between sessions. Further, if the client was on antibiotics or had a tan the sessions could not 
take place. Moreover, there had to be at least six weeks between sessions.
For all of these reasons Mrs M tells us she had not used the six sessions which cost £285, at 
the point when F went into administration in July 2019. It seems that Fs Administrator wrote 
out to a number of Fs clients to let them know what had happened to F, but Mrs M did not 
get a letter. Rather, she found out about the letter and the administration from a friend.
Mrs M suggests she complained to Fs Administrator and it responded to say that her best 
course of action was to complain to Tesco Bank, rather than to it. This was because the 
Administrator told her she would not be successful in making any claim through it. 
Mrs M did what the Administrator apparently suggested and complained to Tesco Bank in 
August 2019. In complaining to Tesco Bank, Mrs M relies on the rights she believes she has 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Section 75 offers 
protection to consumers where there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract for 
which the supplier is responsible. Mrs Ms position is that F both misrepresented the basis 
on which it was selling the treatments and breached the contract in not providing the service 
she had paid for.
Mrs M tells us Tesco Bank refused her claim on the basis that under Fs terms and 
conditions all treatments had to be taken within 12 months of purchase. She not F had 
breached this condition, therefore she was not entitled to compensation from Tesco Bank. In 
addition, she suggests Tesco Bank told her she needed to prove that F had waived this 
requirement. Mrs M contacted S a company that had taken over Fs business. It wrote a 
letter which said,
There was no expiry date on her treatment and no paperwork was signed to state 
otherwise. We still have access to their [Fs] systems, so we are able to advise on what was 
used and what is left.
Mrs M suggests that what S has said demonstrates that her contract with F did not oblige 
her to make use of the treatments within 12 months of purchase. Moreover, Mrs M indicates 
that the Administrator told her verbally too that the treatments were not subject any such 
time limit. 
Mrs M suggests she has done enough to show that Tesco Bank ought to refund her £285.
Tesco responded to say again, that as far as it could see F contracted with Mrs M on the 
basis that any treatments had to be taken within 12 months of purchase. Mrs M did not use 
the treatments within the relevant deadline. Therefore, that is why shed lost out. 
Further, Tesco Bank did not agree that what S said in its letter showed that Mrs M and F had 
contracted on the basis that it would not apply its normal deadline. Tesco suggested it would 
have considered information on this point from either F or the Administrator, but Mrs M had 
not provided this.
For all of these reasons, Tesco Bank did not agree it was responsible for putting things right. 
Accordingly, it declined to do anything further.
Dissatisfied Mrs M asked this service to look into her complaint.
Once Mrs Ms complaint was with us Tesco Bank provided further information. It pointed out 
that S was honouring all the contracts made previously by F within the last 12 months. But it 
was not prepared to provide laser hair removal services to Mrs M. Tesco Banks stance is 
that S is not honouring her contract because F would not have done so either. Simply 
because her right to receive the treatments was time limited. Further, Tesco Bank also 
pointed out that Mrs M was unable to provide an invoice or vouchers to show that the 
customary terms and conditions about the twelve month restriction did not apply in this 
instance.
I took a look at Mrs Ms complaint and I issued a provisional decision. In that provisional 
decision I said I did not intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I explained why that was, here is 
what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to l argument to be able to
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs M used her credit card to make the purchase. Therefore, because she used this form 
of credit she suggests she has the protection given by Section 75. In particular, Section 75 
says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a 
transaction financed by a credit agreement, has a claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against the credit 
provider. I think both parties agree that Section 75 is relevant to Mrs Ms complaint. [As do 
I].Given Section 75 is relevant, I will look at if I think the contract was misrepresented or 
breached. However, I need to add I think its important to set out my role here. In 
considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a 
fair way to resolve Mrs Ms complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other 
things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt 
mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs M 
pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts and operates differently from them.
Mrs Ms position is straightforward. She suggests that she brought six hair removal 
treatments that she never used. And that she is entitled to use them at any time because it 
was not a condition of her contract that the treatments be used within 12 months of 
purchase. She accepts, it seems, that under Fs normal terms and conditions all 
treatments had be used within 12 months of purchase. But she goes on to suggest F 
specifically told her it would waive this condition. So, she is saying F induced her into the 
contract by giving her false information. And Mrs M is also suggesting that F did contract 
with her on the basis that she says. [i.e. that it was a specific condition of her contract that 
she could take the treatments without a time limit].  Therefore, since she has not got the 
services she [was promised] and has paid for Mrs Ms position is that Tesco Bank is 
responsible. In the circumstances this could be either a misrepresentation and or a breach 
of contract.
In addition, Mrs M suggests that Ss letter supports her stance. Moreover, she tells us the 
Administrator told her verbally that F had an arrangement with its customers that the 12 
month time limit would not apply. We asked Mrs M if she had written information to support
this and she replied.
The administrator felt unable to put his comments in writing as it would not be appropriate 
hence my reference to his verbal comment ref this arrangement the company had with their 
clients Im [sic] this respect.
Tesco Bank suggests that F did not waive its normal contractual terms re the time limits. 
Further, as a result it suggests there has been no misrepresentation and or breach of 
contract because quite simply F never set aside the relevant terms and conditions and Mrs 
M ran out of time to use the treatments. And it points out that if Mrs M was entitled to the 
treatments, S would have supplied them. But it did not offer to supply the treatments 
because she is not entitled to them.
I think, in the circumstances, it is unlikely that F would have had standard terms and 
conditions but at the same time would not have used them and not told customers about 
them. Neither do I find it likely that it would have waived the terms and conditions re time 
limits. It does not make business sense to allow customers to buy a set of treatments and 
put no time limit on them. What Mrs M says about the restrictions of the treatment is 
persuasive, in part. But even leaving six weeks between treatments means by around about 
the mid-point of 2018 she would have used up the four or five treatments she tells us that 
she had in hand. And I also think it only fair to note she has not been able to demonstrate 
she did have those treatments in hand. So, for all these reasons, on the face of it, there 
would have been no reason to not apply the normal 12 month time limit.
I dont agree that Ss letter helps Mrs M. Im persuaded by Tesco Banks position here. It is 
agreed [it seems] that Fs normal terms and conditions were that treatments had to be taken 
within 12 months of paying. I dont see why it is likely therefore it would have noted this down 
given it was the norm. So, the fact that S found no mention of the time limit is not surprising. 
Conversely, if the time limit had been waived I would have expected that to be mentioned in 
the records as it would have been a change from the norm.I note what Mrs M said about the Administrator supporting her stance in conversation. She 
also suggests that it did not want to repeat what it said in writing, I find this unlikely. Why 
would it have been inappropriate for it to confirm Fs terms of business? It certainly was very 
clear about Mrs Ms position in its written communications. In particular, I have seen a letter 
from it which says in summary F contracted on the basis that all treatments had to be taken 
within 12 months of purchase and any treatments that were not taken in that time frame 
were forfeited. Mrs M and Tesco Bank both agree she did not take the treatments within 12 
months of purchase. I have found that on balance the time limit terms and conditions applied 
and were not waived in this instance. It follows that there has been no misrepresentation or 
breach of contract. It also follows I have no proper basis for telling Tesco Bank it has to do 
anything further.
Both Mrs M and Tesco Bank now have till the due date set out above to send in any further 
information, should they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should 
be materially new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
As far as I am aware we have received no response to my provisional decision from Mrs M. 
Tesco Bank responded to say it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been sent no new submissions in relation to my provisional decision. It follows that I 
have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons that I set out in my provisional 
decision and above in this decision.
It follows I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman