DRN-3637930
The complaint
Mr H has complained that his mortgage payment for July 2020 has not been reflected in his 
mortgage account by Barclays Bank UK PLC. As a result, Mr H says his mortgage balance 
is higher than it should be and that he is being charged additional interest. To settle the 
complaint Mr H wants Barclays to correct the mortgage so it shows the July 2020 payment 
and remove any additional interest charged. To regain his trust, Mr H says Barclays must 
also pay compensation for the significant distress he has been caused.
What happened
Mr H has a mortgage with Barclays. His mortgage instalments are paid by direct debit which 
are usually taken in the middle of the month, two or three days before the instalment is due.
On 18 August 2020 Mr H contacted Barclays to say that his mortgage balance had not 
reduced after his payment made on 13 July 2020. In its final response letter, Barclays 
explained that the payment had been taken into account and applied to the account balance. 
For any distress Mr H might have been caused, Barclays offered him compensation of £200.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. He explained hed carried out his own calculations which showed the 
July 2020 payment hadnt been applied to the account, as a result of which he was paying 
more interest.
An investigator looked at the case but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. He 
provided Mr H with screenshots showing the payment made on 13 July 2020, three days 
before the payment was due on 16 July 2020. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He didnt think the investigation had been 
thorough enough and that the investigator hadnt considered the spreadsheet which clearly 
shows the discrepancy between what my mortgage should be if Barclays had factored in all 
my payments, which to date they still havent. Mr H said that Barclays screenshots said 
nothing at all, and that we should look at the metadata, including the log of any user 
interactions regarding his mortgage account and payments. Mr H said that more than two 
years after raising this issue, nothing had been done.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted that Mr H would like us to analyse Barclays 
metadata on his mortgage account, I wont be doing that, as I dont think its necessary to 
reach a fair outcome.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr H says his July 2020 mortgage payment has never been 
factored into his mortgage account. However, I am satisfied that the payment shows on both 
the screenshots for the account and in the 2020 annual mortgage statement. 
I believe Mr H has a copy of the annual statement, but if not, we can supply it to him if he 
would like us to. The rate of interest on the account fluctuates as it is calculated on a daily 
basis. There is therefore less interest charged in February (29 days), April and June (each 
30 days) than January, March, May, July and August (all 31 days).  Because this is a capital 
repayment mortgage, as a result of amortisation, each month a small amount of the capital is 
also repaid, which also results in slightly less interest being charged each month. 
Interest is calculated on a daily basis. What this means is that each day the account balance 
fluctuates, because interest is added daily. Therefore, if Mr H looked at his account balance 
online in mid-August, it would show daily interest accrued since his previous payment, not a 
static balance from month-to-month that reduced only with each payment. Ive looked at 
Mr Hs spreadsheet but Im not persuaded this is an accurate record of how the daily interest 
on the account is calculated or applied. Mr H appears to have applied interest on a monthly, 
rather than a daily, basis.
Therefore, on balance, Im persuaded Barclays records are the more accurate. In the 
circumstances, the evidence doesnt lead me to conclude that Barclays has made an error.
Barclays offered Mr H £200 compensation which Barclays says was credited to Mr Hs 
current account. I have to say that if Barclays had not offered any compensation, I would not 
be ordering it to do so, because Im unable to find that Barclays has done anything wrong.
That doesnt mean Mr H has to take either my word or Barclays that nothing has gone wrong 
if he doesnt want to. We dont provide an account-checking or auditing service. Mr H always 
has the option of arranging for the mortgage account to be audited by a suitably-qualified 
and independent third party, such as a forensic accountant or actuary. If that revealed any 
errors, the evidence of the audit could be used as the basis for a new complaint  but not as 
the basis for this one to be re-opened. I make this point because Barclays would need to be 
presented with the finalised audit first and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it.
Mr H would have to meet the cost of the audit, but if errors were found that were to his 
detriment, we would expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well 
as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
available evidence doesnt allow me to find in Mr Hs favour, however much Mr H thinks I 
should.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman