DRN-1651165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled poorly a claim they made 
on their motor insurance policy with UKI.
What happened
Mrs W insured her car on a policy with UKI. Her husband, Mr W, was a named driver on that 
policy. In March 2019 Mr W was involved in an accident when driving Mrs Ws car, which he 
said wasnt his fault. He was able to provide dashcam evidence to support this, and in April 
2019 the third partys insurer (TPI) accepted liability on behalf of the third party. In May 
2019, repairs to the car were completed, and the car was returned to Mr and Mrs W.
Mr Ws insurance on his own car was due for renewal on 8 September 2019. In August 
2019, when seeking quotes for this renewal, he became aware that the accident involving 
his wifes car was still recorded as an open claim, and so was showing as a fault claim on his 
insurance record. This meant some insurers wouldnt offer him insurance, and others would 
only offer insurance at an increased premium.
On 15 August 2019, Mr W told UKI that the claim was still unresolved, and the effect this 
was having on his own insurance renewal. It seems TPI hadnt paid UKIs costs for the 
accident because UKI hadnt collected and sent it all the invoices for these costs.
Once UKI was reminded the claim hadnt been resolved:
UKI collected the one invoice that was outstanding and forwarded all the invoices to 
TPI on 16 August 2019;
on 19 August 2019 UKI paid Mr W compensation of £150 for its failure to properly 
conclude the claim;
TPI sent UKI a cheque for the outstanding costs which UKI received on 23 August 
2019;
the claim was closed on 29 August 2019; and
UKI issued Mr W with a letter confirming it had recovered all its costs on the claim 
and closed its file, with Mr Ws no claims discount being unaffected by the claim, 
which he could show to any potential insurer if necessary.
The result was Mr W was able to get his insurance record corrected before his own policy 
renewal date, and was able to obtain a satisfactory policy at an appropriate premium. 
However, he didnt think the £150 UKI had paid him was enough in view of the trouble and 
time hed had to spend on the matter. So he complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said UKI was at 
fault for not chasing up an invoice for car hire costs until Mr W got in touch with it on 15 
August 2019. After that UKI did what was needed to close the claim.
Mr W had estimated he spent about 20 hours on the phone to UKI trying to sort the matter 
out. The investigator had asked UKI if this estimate was accurate, but it hadnt responded. 
However, he could see from UKIs records that Mr W had called UKI at least five times.
Mr W had said he was greatly inconvenienced by the delays in renewing his own car 
insurance. However, once this claim was closed he was able to obtain insurance with which 
he was satisfied with another insurer.
The investigator accepted that the issue had caused Mr W great stress and worry at the 
time, but thought the £150 UKI had paid him was sufficient compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience he had experienced.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that:
he had spent about thirteen hours on the phone to UKI, and had made more calls 
than its records suggested;
the open claim affected his ability to renew his own policy, and the cost of this;
his wife, Mrs W, was pregnant at the time which added to the stress; and
the investigator hadnt properly taken into consideration the time it took him to get the 
issue sorted out, and the stress he went through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has acknowledged that it should have done more to chase up the outstanding invoice so 
that it could close off the claim. It has paid Mr W £150 as compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused him, but he doesnt think this is enough.
It isnt our role to fine or punish a business for its behaviour. That is for the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA) as its regulator to consider. But we will consider whether, and if 
so how, a consumer should be compensated for any loss they have suffered, and any 
distress and inconvenience a businesss behaviour has caused them.
In this case UKI acted promptly when Mr W contacted it on 15 August 2019, and he was 
able to obtain new insurance that was satisfactory before his renewal date. So he didnt 
suffer any financial loss on the renewal.
I accept he had to spend some time contacting UKI in August 2019 to make sure the claim 
was going to be closed. Mr Ws estimates of this time have varied between five and twenty 
hours, and he now says he spent about thirteen hours doing this. UKIs records dont 
suggest he spent as much time as this, and Mr W hasnt produced any phone records to 
back this up. 
I also accept that the open claim caused Mr W worry as he tried to deal with the renewal of 
his own insurance, and that with his wife being pregnant at the time it was a particularly 
stressful time.
All in all, like the investigator, I think the £150 compensation UKI has paid Mr W was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him, and I dont 
require UKI to do anything more.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against UK Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman