DRN-3047714
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd restricted his accounts. Mr S says this caused him 
severe financial distress and not able to pay other bills which resulted in defaults being 
applied to his credit file. Mr S would like compensation.  
What happened
 Mr S held an account with Monzo. In January 2020, Monzo blocked Mr Ss account which 
meant he couldnt use it. Mr S raised a complaint.
Mr S tried to get in touch with Monzo through their online chat facility  but he didnt receive 
any replies. Monzo confirmed they would respond to Mr Ss complaint by 16 June 2020  but 
then let him know they would need until 14 July 2020 to issue a full response.
In June 2020, Monzo unblocked Mr Ss accounts so he could access it fully. They also 
issued Mr S with a response to his complaint. In their response, Monzo explained that the 
account was frozen due to their routine account reviews  but they regretted the time it took. 
So, they offered £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Mr S wasnt happy with Monzos settlement offer. He explained hed faced defaults and rent 
arrears due to the account block so wanted an increased level of compensation. Mr S 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator who reviewed Mr Ss complaint thought Monzo should do more to put things 
right. He recognised the impact the overall situation had on Mr S  and while he agreed 
Monzo blocking the account was fair, he thinks they should have removed the block sooner 
which would have reduced the impact on Mr S. So, he asked Monzo to do the following;
write a letter confirming the dates of the unnecessary block which Mr S could show 
his creditors to confirm the reason he missed payments;
pay 8% simple interest on the full balance of the account from March 2020 (when our 
investigator thought Monzo could have removed the block) until June 2020 (when 
Monzo did remove the block);
pay Mr S £1,000 for the trouble and upset.
Monzo accepted the investigators recommendations. Mr S didnt  he thinks the impact the 
overall situation had on him is more than the compensation offered.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the significant impact this situation has had on Mr S. But having considered 
everything, I agree with our investigators opinion on how to put things right. Ive explained 
further below.
The account block
Monzo are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Mr Ss account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Monzos actions were appropriate in the circumstances, 
Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions they took during 
the review. 
Monzo has shared information with us that we consider should be kept confidential. I 
appreciate this isnt helpful for Mr S as this means some of the information weve received 
we wont be able to share with him. But our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information.
While Im sorry I cant go into more detail with Mr S, based on the evidence received from 
Monzo, Im satisfied the account block was reasonable. So Im not going to ask Monzo to do 
anything to put things right in relation to the initial block in January 2020.
Ive then gone on to consider the time the account was blocked. Monzo didnt remove the 
block until June 2020 but having reviewed the full circumstances of this complaint, I think 
they could have been more proactive in their review. I think its reasonable that Monzo could 
have taken the necessary action sooner than they did  and at around one month after the 
initial block. This means Mr Ss account block could have been removed around the end of 
February 2020 and no later than the beginning of March 2020. Because of that, I think 
Monzo should pay Mr S compensation to recognise the unnecessary delays in their review.
The impact the block had on Mr S
Mr S held around £12,000 in his Monzo account  so I appreciate the inconvenience and 
distress this would have caused by not having access to it. Mr S has supplied evidence to 
our service to show he couldnt pay certain bills because of his account block and the impact 
this has had on his credit file. I recognise Mr S didnt have any direct debits set up on his 
Monzo account, but I dont consider this means the impact is any less.
Mr Ss account statements show regular transfers from his Monzo account to accounts held 
with different banks in his name. So, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr S used money 
from his Monzo account to regularly service other personal finances. And not having access 
to the money in his Monzo account would have severely disrupted this financial support.
Mr S not being able to make certain payments on time resulted in a number of arrears and 
defaults applied to Mr Ss credit file. Im aware Mr S had other accounts which were also 
blocked, and while the circumstances of those arent entirely relevant to this complaint, I 
have had to consider that I cant place full responsibility of the arrears and defaults on 
Monzo. But Monzo blocked Mr Ss account for a period of six months and Im satisfied the 
block should have only been in place for around one month. Therefore, I do agree Monzo 
has played a part in some of the arrears and defaults and so, should do something to put 
things right.Putting things right
 I recognise Mr S now has access to his money and therefore I hope he has been able to 
reduce some of the arrears and any further lasting impact. However, defaults are placed on 
a credit file for six years  so, this situation could affect his financial future for a significant 
period of time.
Our investigator asked Monzo to provide a letter confirming Mr Ss account was 
unnecessarily blocked between early March 2020 up until June 2020. I can see Monzo has 
already supplied this letter and it confirms the block may have caused Mr S to miss 
payments incorrectly and asks the creditors to review matters. While I think this letter could 
be helpful, I cant safely say all of Mr Ss creditors will accept it and remove any defaults, so 
Ive had to consider the lasting impact on Mr S when deciding on the amount of 
compensation. Overall, Mr S suffered an unnecessary account block for around five months 
and his credit file has severely suffered  and so I consider £1,000 compensation is a fair 
reflection.
I also consider 8% simple interest should be added to the full balance of Mr Ss account from 
the time it could have reasonably been unblocked (early March 2020) up until the time it was 
unblocked. I think this fairly reflects the loss of use of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should do 
the following to put things right:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the money they withheld from Mr S. They 
should calculate this from the date they reasonably could have unblocked Mr Ss 
account  2 March 2020  to the date they did unblock it.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo Bank Ltd to withhold income tax from the 
aforementioned interest. Monzo should give Mr S a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr S asks for one.
Pay Mr S a total of £1,000 compensation.
Im aware Monzo Bank Ltd has already made a payment of approximately £600 to Mr S. So, 
I consider the above redress should take into account the amount already paid and be offset 
against any remaining amount due to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman