DRN-3060975
The complaint
A claims management company complains on behalf of the estate of Mrs P that a life 
assurance policy sold to Mrs P in 1985 was unsuitable. Responsibility for the sale of the 
policy now sits with Zurich Assurance Ltd.
To keep things simple, Ill use Zurich to mean Zurich Assurance Ltd, and all their 
predecessors. And Ill use the CMC to mean the claims management company thats 
brought this complaint to us. 
What happened
Mrs P took her policy out in 1985. The policy was set up in trust, with the policy set to benefit 
two of Mrs Ps adult children. Mrs Ps monthly premium was used to pay for life assurance, 
and contributed to an investment fund.
Zurich say that in 1996, Mrs P stopped paying the premium. The policy continued using the 
money in the linked investment. That ran out in 2010, so the life assurance ended at that 
point. Mrs P then died in 2015. 
The CMC complain the policy sold to Mrs P was unsuitable. They say she had no 
dependents at the time, so she didnt need the policy. Zurich have noted there are few 
documents from 1985, but thats in keeping with the requirements back then. But they feel 
the policy was fairly sold to Mrs P. 
Our investigator looked into things and explained why he felt Zurich had done what was 
required of them at the time when selling the policy to Mrs P. The CMC disagreed, and 
asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. 
So the case has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Zurich have provided a fair and reasonable service in this 
case. 
The main issue is that in 1985, there was no requirement for companies selling life 
assurance policies to make sure they were suitable for their customers. The standard 
expected under common law was:
Not to make negligent mis-statements;
Where information was given, to disclose all material information, and
Where advice was given, to advise with reasonable care and skill.
The limited documents we have in this case show the premium, the sum assured, and what 
events would lead to the policy making a payment. No one seems to be saying those details 
were inaccurate, so I conclude Zurich did a reasonable job of accurately explaining the 
policys key points to Mrs P at the time. 
I note the CMC have said about Mrs P not having dependents in 1985. That may legally be 
the case true, but that doesnt necessarily mean there werent people she wanted to provide 
for, if she died. The setting up of a trust shows me Mrs P had thought about who she wanted 
to benefit from the policy. If shed felt the beneficiaries didnt need the money, Id question 
why she went ahead with the policy, given it was clear that was where the benefit of it was 
going to go. 
So, on balance, I find the advice was given with reasonable care and skill and policy was 
sold reasonably to Mrs P, as the process used met the requirements at the time. 
My final decision
Given the above, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman