DRN-3611499
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Citibank UK Limited Citi mis-sold him a packaged bank account. 
He also says that he asked for his account to be closed and this was not actioned. He says 
this caused him to have account fees debited from his account.
What happened
In 2006 Mr W took out a fee-free Sterling account with Citi. At some point prior to March 
2007, this account was changed to a Citi Plus account. This account came with associated 
benefits such as travel insurance, in return for a monthly fee.
Mr W recently complained to Citi about this account, as he believed that he was not given 
the option of having a fee-free account. And that Citi had not actioned his request to close 
his account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into this matter already and he did not think that Citi did 
anything wrong. Mr W did not agree with this and therefore this complain was passed to me 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used that approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that Citi has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
 
The first thing that I will address is whether or not Mr W was given a fair choice as to change 
his account to the Citi Plus account. 
I think that Mr W wouldve known that fee-free accounts were an option for him as he held 
one with Citi prior to this change. I also think that Mr W was aware that the change was 
optional. I say this because in April 2007, Mr W signed a form stating that he wished to 
continue with the insurance benefits and ticked a box choosing this option rather than 
changing back to the standard fee-free Citi account.
 
Had he not wanted the insurance benefits and not been aware previously that they were 
optional, I think at this point he would chosen to change his account back to the fee-free 
option and wouldve queried why he was not made aware prior to this point that the Citi Plus 
account was optional.
I also note that he had not actually paid an account fee for the Citi Plus account until after 
April 2007. So even if he was not aware prior to this point that the account was optional and 
fee-free accounts were available, (although I dont think that this was the case) I think he 
was made aware of this prior to him actually paying an account fee.
I dont think that the Citi Plus account was sold on an advised basis. So Citi did not need to 
ensure that the account benefits were suitable for Mr W. That said, it did need to give Mr W 
enough information to enable him to do this for himself. 
I am satisfied, albeit on balance, that Mr W wouldve have had the main benefits highlighted 
to him prior to his account changing, as this wouldve made the account seem attractive. I 
cant say that Mr W was told about all the information about all of the account benefits, but I 
cant see anything specific that Mr W says he was not told that I believe wouldve altered his 
decision to take out the account.
In relation to the downgrade request, Citi says that it has no records of a request being 
received. However, I cant see from Mr Ws bank statements that he was actually charged 
any account fees after this point, though I understand that initially there was some confusion 
in relation to this. So even if Citi failed to action Mr Ws request, although I cant see that this 
was the case, I dont think that this caused Mr W an actual financial loss.
Overall, taking everything into consideration I do not think that Citi has done anything wrong 
and I dont think it needs to pay Mr W compensation.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman