DRN-1635379
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she opened a store credit card in December 2003. 
What happened
Mrs F took out her store card and the PPI policy in December 2003 whilst she was in store. 
Mrs F has complained that the PPI was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld her complaint. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with AXAs response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the PPI was mis-sold and recommended Mrs Fs 
complaint should be upheld.
AXA didnt agree with that recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mrs F took out her credit card and the PPI in store. AXA has provided a copy of the 
application form that Mrs F completed. 
I can see there is a section on the form with the heading Protecting Your Account. This 
indicates that the box should be signed only if the Account Cover is required. It also 
indicates a premium will be charged to the account for the cover.
Whilst this wording suggests the PPI is optional, I note that a cross has been put against the 
section, the same as the cross that is next to the signature line at the end of the agreement. 
This would suggest the form was filled in by the customer assistant in store for Mrs F, which 
the writing also suggests, and that crosses were put on the form where Mrs F needed to 
sign. 
I do not know what was said to Mrs F by the customer assistant and if Mrs F was specifically 
asked if she wanted the PPI cover. It is possible that Mrs F said she wanted the card 
account and when the personal details were completed by the store assistant it was 
indicated to Mrs F she should sign where the crosses had been placed without specific 
confirmation the PPI was required. So, I think there may be a little doubt in the 
circumstances of this particular case as to whether it was made fully clear the PPI was 
optional. 
I also cannot be certain what, if any, additional information would have been provided at the 
time, in store, to Mrs F about the PPI. I think it unlikely the store assistant would have 
provided any detail about it.
Looking at the form and the information provided there, I am not persuaded that Mrs F was 
given adequate information, in a clear way, about the policy to make an informed decision 
about whether it was suitable for her. 
At the very top of the application form there are two sections. One deals with very basic 
eligibility criteria for the card account relating to age, residence in the UK and employment 
and in the way this is set out it isnt totally clear how this applies to the PPI. Next to this at 
the top of the form, is section headed Remember to Add Account Cover to your 
Application. Underneath this heading are four bullet points which indicate the cover is for 
purchase, price and payment protection and the last bullet point states the cost is just 1.5p 
for every £100 on your monthly outstanding balance. 
It isnt totally clear from this information exactly what is covered for the 1.5p per £100 charge 
and so Im not sure this made it totally clear to Mrs F what cover she was being provided 
with. No information of the benefits, terms and conditions are provided, merely a reference to 
the customer copy of the Credit Agreement.
I dont think Mrs F was made aware clearly of the costs and benefits of the policy. This was 
quite an expensive policy when considering the cost against the benefit that was possible to 
be claimed. 
Also, Mrs F had only just started her job and may have been restricted on when she may 
have been able to make a claim on the policy if she hadnt been working for six months or 
more. She did receive some sick pay from her employer for up to six months if she was 
unable to work.  
In addition, Mrs F has told us she had some pre-existing medical conditions. Two of these, 
high blood pressure and diabetes had started just a few years before the card account was 
applied for and Mrs F was receiving ongoing treatment for them.
I have noted AXAs response indicating the conditions were being controlled and so it was 
unlikely she would have needed to make a claim in connection with them. But they were 
conditions that would have been excluded as Mrs F was under medical care for them. I think 
in those circumstances, for her the exclusion of claims for these existing conditions is likely 
to have affected her decision to take out the policy, particularly taking into account Mrs Fs 
other circumstances.
Taking her employment benefits into account and the costs of the policy, plus the nature of 
this credit account which was for a store card with a limited credit limit, I think if the full 
restrictions that affected Mrs F and the costs and benefits had been made clear to her she 
would not have taken out this PPI policy.
In summary, I think clarity about the optionality of the policy may be an issue here. But in any 
event, if better information about the restrictions on claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions, and clear information on the PPI costs and benefits had been provided, I think 
this would have put Mrs F off taking out the cover, so I think the PPI policy in the particular 
circumstances of Mrs F was mis-sold. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaints that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
So, AXA needs to put Mrs F as far as possible in the position she would be in if she had not 
been sold any PPI. From the information provided, the total amount of premiums charged for 
the PPI whilst it was active on the account was £399.73.
Mrs F borrowed extra on her card in the months when the PPI premium was added to her 
account, and she paid interest on those premiums if the account wasnt cleared. Mrs F 
needs to get back all the extra shes paid for the PPI, so the total premiums plus any interest 
paid on them at the card rate. 
AXA should work out what Mrs F actually paid for the cost of the PPI, including any interest 
or charges caused by the premiums and it must pay back to Mrs F everything she paid for 
the PPI policy. 
AXA must also work out some compensatory interest for the time Mrs F didnt have use of 
the money that was paid for the PPI. This is worked out on each amount paid for the PPI 
from the date Mrs F paid the PPI cost until the date she gets it back. The rate of interest is 
8% a year simple.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and AXA must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for 
one.
AXA has already offered to refund some compensation of £235.73 for unfair commission 
paid as part of the PPI premiums. If this has already been paid it can be removed from the 
total compensation that AXA now works out for the compensation for the mis-sold PPI. If this 
unfair commission hasnt been paid, it will be included in the compensation now calculated 
for the refund of the PPI premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
to Mrs F by AXA France IARD. Compensation should be calculated and paid to Mrs F as I 
have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman