DRN-4501967
The complaint
Mr K and Ms T complain that a timeshare product was misrepresented to them. The 
purchase was partly financed with credit provided by Vacation Finance Limited  (VFL). 
Because of that, Mr K and Ms T say they have a claim against VFL in the same way they 
have a claim against the timeshare company. 
Mr K and Ms T have been represented in this complaint by a claims management business, 
which Ill call C. Any reference to their submissions and arguments, therefore, includes 
those made on their behalf. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr K and Ms T were on a promotional holiday in Malta. While there, they 
attended a sales presentation, at the end of which they bought a points based timeshare 
product from Azure XP Limited, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands. They 
bought 6,000 XP points and Level 1 club membership at a total cost of £18,360. XP points 
could be exchanged for holiday accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, 
motor home hire, and driving experiences The purchase was financed by a 10-year loan 
from VFL, brokered by Azure Services Limited. The loan was in their joint names. 
In 2020 Azure XP Limited and Azure Services Limited were placed into liquidation.
In January 2021 Mr K and Ms T complained to VFL through C. They said: they had been 
pressured into buying the XPs; the product had been misrepresented to them; the points had 
been sold as an investment; the lending had been irresponsible; the loan created an unfair 
relationship; and commission had not been disclosed as it should have been.    
VFL did not accept the complaint, and Mr K and Ms T referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K and Ms T did not accept 
that recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that the loan was not affordable for Mr K and Ms T. 
On the contrary, I note that the contractual payments of £167.01 were paid in full until 
January 2019, after which they were increased significantly, to over £1,500. The result was 
that Mr K and Ms T were able to repay the loan in full by October 2019  little more than a 
year into its 10-year term. Mr K does not appear to have indicated at any time that he was 
having difficulty making payments, even when he was discussing increasing them and 
paying the loan off early. That does not suggest that the loan was unaffordable. 
The fact that a borrower has not missed any payments or fallen into arrears does not 
necessarily show that the lender did carry out appropriate checks before agreeing the loan. 
They do indicate however that Mr K and Ms T suffered no loss as a result of taking the loan 
out. They also indicate that, even if more detailed checks had been made, its likely the loan 
would have been granted in very similar terms in any event.   
Authorisation
C has suggested that the credit intermediary in this case did not have the necessary 
authorisation at the time to arrange the loan. The intermediary named in the loan documents 
was Azure Services Limited. Our records show that it was an authorised representative of 
VFL in August 2018 and that VFL was itself authorised by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. I am satisfied therefore that there is no merit in this element of the 
complaint. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied that the links among Axure XP Limited (as seller), Azure Services Limited (as 
intermediary) and VFL (as lender) were such that those conditions were met in this case. I 
have therefore considered what has been said about the sale in August 2018.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr K and Ms Ts statements about what they were told at the sales presentation are generic, 
lack detail, and are largely unsupported by any documentation. They have said that they 
were told the XPs would be an investment which could be sold for a guaranteed profit. 
The Application for Membership recorded that Mr K and Ms T had received the Standard 
Information Document, the Rules of Membership, the Reservation Rules, and the Deed of 
Trust. That is relevant to the question of whether they were misled about what they were 
buying.  
I am not persuaded that the XPs were sold as an investment that Mr K and Ms T could sell. 
They were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation and experiences. I note as 
well that the contractual documents made it clear that XPs could only be sold through Azure 
and once they had been held for five years. I understand  the resale programme was opened 
in 2022, after this complaint was first brought. I have however seen no evidence that Mr K 
and Ms T have sought to sell their XPs.       
I am not persuaded that Mr K and Ms T were misled.    But in any event, the Membership Application included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
And clause 20 included:
This Agreement is irrevocable and legally binding upon all parties and cannot be cancelled 
or rescinded at any time after the expiry of the statutory withdrawal period stated In this 
Agreement and will supersede any and all understandings and agreements between the 
parties hereto whether written or oral and it is mutually understood and agreed that this 
Agreement and the Standard Information Document and ancillary documents represent the 
entire agreement between the parties hereto and no representation or inducements made 
prior hereto which are not included in and embodied In this Agreement, or the documents 
referred to, will have any force or effect.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr K and Ms T sought to 
rely was included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that they were misled, 
but, if I were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of those 
provisions.
Breach of contract
C says that the liquidation of Azure companies means that there is a breach of contract. I 
dont believe that is the case. Club properties were held in a trust. On 8 July 2020 the trustee 
wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
The services linked to Mr K and Ms Ts purchase of XPs therefore remain available to them 
and are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
C also said that the XPs provided no benefit to its clients and were effectively worthless. VFL 
noted however that its clients had had the benefit of a short yacht charter and had used their 
membership to take a holiday in Singapore in August 2019. Mr K and Ms T have not 
challenged those statements. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
Because the loan was made under pre-existing arrangements between VFL and a company 
closely linked to the seller, the timeshare agreement was a linked transaction within the 
meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act.   
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce the balance of a loan. I am 
not persuaded however that I should do so here. 
There were links between VFL and the Azure companies. I do not believe however that this 
led to a conflict of interest in respect of their relationship with Mr K and Ms T. Azure XP was 
selling club membership and XP points, and Azure Services was acting as intermediary (and 
VFLs agent). Whilst it introduced finance options, it was not acting as Mr K and Ms Ts 
financial adviser or agent and was under no obligation to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation or to give advice or information on that basis.    
C says that VFL did not disclose the commission paid to Azure. VFL says it did not pay any. 
It noted that, before alleging that an unfair commission had been paid, C took no steps to 
ask whether any commission had been paid or, if so, what it was. That does not suggest that 
the issue of commission was a real concern to Mr K and Ms T, either at the point of sale or 
subsequently. 
Mr K and Ms T say too that the sale was pressured. They have not really elaborated on that, 
but I note that Azures standard documents included a statement from the buyer to say they 
had not been put under pressure. Its significant too in my view that Mr K and Ms T had 14 
days in which to review the documents and withdraw from both the sale and the loan 
agreements. If they thought they had agreed to any of those agreements as a result of 
undue pressure, it is not clear to me why they didnt take advantage of the option to 
withdraw.  
It is not for me to decide whether Mr K and Ms T have a claim against Azure XP, or whether 
they might therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor 
can I make orders under sections 140A and 140B of the same Act. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr K and Ms 
Ts complaint. In the circumstances of this case, however, I think that VFLs response to the 
claims was fair and reasonable.    
I gave the parties until 22 November 2023 to provide any further evidence or arguments that 
they wanted me to consider. I have not received anything more.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I have not been provided with any further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision. I stress that I have 
nevertheless considered the case in full before reaching that conclusion.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and do not require Vacation Finance 
Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman