DRN-3571283
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly turned down a 
claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr T was called by someone who told him that he could make a claim in respect of holiday 
club memberships hed purchased previously. But the company that deal with the claim was 
based in Tenerife, so he would need to travel there to make the claim.
In January 2016, Mr T went to Tenerife and spoke with a representative of a company called 
Slonce (S). He was told that he could take out holiday credits from a company called Travel 
Home & Adventure SL (THA) that offered holidays and travel benefits, but also he was 
given five free worldwide holidays. Mr T also says he was told a claim would be made on 
his behalf in relation to his holiday club membership. For these services, Mr T made two 
payments on his Nationwide credit card - £1,971.40 to THA and £1,972.17 to a company 
called Luxury Leisure Group (LLG).1
In August 2017, Mr T, using the help of a professional representative (PR), made a claim to 
Nationwide under s.75 CCA. PR said that the claim made was in relation to the payment 
made to THA for £1,971.40, arguing that the payment was taken on the day of the sale 
which was a breach of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations). PR pointed out that the Timeshare 
Regulations say that no payment can be taken in a fourteen day withdrawal period, but here 
payment was taken on the same day. PR also said that Mr T returned the day after the sale 
to cancel the agreements taken out. Despite that, Mr T didnt receive a refund and he never 
used any of the services purchased.
Nationwide responded in September 2017 to say it didnt accept the claim as it said there 
wasnt the right evidence to show that what Mr T said was right. Unhappy with what was 
said, PR referred a complaint to our service that Nationwide hadnt properly considered 
Mr Ts claim.2 After then, Nationwide responded to say it still didnt accept it was liable. It 
said that the evidence suggested that any attempt to cancel the agreements took place 
outside of any fourteen day cancellation period and there was no evidence to suggest that 
any of the agreement had been breached or there was any other valid claim under s.75 
CCA.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Nationwide needed to pay 
compensation to Mr T. She didnt think there was enough evidence to show there had been 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract. Further, she thought the evidence showed that 
Mr T tried to cancel the agreements more than fourteen days after they were taken out, so 
1 Mr T entered into agreements relating to these payments alongside his wife, however as the credit 
card was in his name, only he is able to make the complaint he has about Nationwide. So I will refer to 
only Mr T throughout.
2 It appears that Mr T may have complained to Nationwide earlier in December 2016, possibly without 
the assistance of PR, as Ive seen a letter to Mr T dated 14 February 2017. But in this decision, Im 
only considering the complaint referred by PR, albeit it appears to cover the same ground.
outside of any of the time limits PR argued applied.
PR responded to say Mr T disagreed with our investigator. In response, it said the sales 
meeting took place over several hours on a hot day, so the sale was under duress. PR said 
Mr T went back the second day after the sale to cancel the agreements. Also that Mr T was 
told the payments made on the card were on hold and payment wouldnt be taken at the 
time. Finally, PR argued that Mr T was told that the businesses were ABTA and ATOL 
protected, which wasnt true. As Mr T didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The only evidence there is from the time of sale is from Mr T. He has provided all of the 
documentation he has, along with his memories. So when considering this claim, that is the 
only evidence there is available. Im mindful that his memories may not be an accurate 
representation of the precise sales process as memories are imperfect. So Ive had to weigh 
all of that up when deciding what I think most likely happened. I dont think its unfair to 
Nationwide for me to do this  ultimately I must decide the complaint in front of me based on 
the evidence available.
When considering this complaint, I think it is important to set out what I find Mr T agreed to 
and with which business. Ill then consider any legal claims that Nationwide needed to 
consider, given the legal relationships between the parties. Finally, Ill consider whether 
Nationwide needs to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
The available documents
Much of the documentation comes from the sale that took place on 30 January 2016 (the 
Date of Sale). Ive seen a number of different documents, each signed separately by Mr T. 
Its not entirely clear what they relate to, so Ive set them out in some length before I can say 
what I think happened.
There are a number of documents provided on Ss headed paper. They include confirmation 
that S would instigate two claims on Mr Ts behalf totalling £38,172. It was explained that 
once these claims were paid, Mr T would be expected to pay a percentage to S and that the 
claims would take sixty days to be paid.
There is a document titled SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF [S] TRAVEL 
that shows Mr T agreed to pay £4,000 by bank transfer by 1 March 2016. It appears that this 
was an agreement lasting one year offering a form of travel agency services by S to Mr T. 
Attached to that document is a set of terms that include:
10. The Purchaser understands that the Product is not a long term holiday product 
(LTHP) or Timeshare, and as such does NOT fall under any part of the 2011 EU 
Timeshare Directive, with regards to a statutory requirement of a COOLING OFF 
PERIOD.Ss bank details were also provided, but the transfer value was given as £3,960. Mr S also 
signed to say he received £40 from S for services provided.
There is a document on THA headed paper that is called a Subscription Application. It 
says:
[THA], referred to as the Vendor, a registered Spanish Company and authorised to 
represent and market in Europe, , are established under Law to allow members to 
access and participate in [THA] Entertainment, Home and Leisure Reservation 
System based on the appropriate subscription.
The Applicant(s) hereby apply for the subscription of [THA] and agree to use the 
services provided applicable. The Applicant(s) hereby agree to pay the subscription 
fee specified and agree to be bound by the usage of [THA]. This agreement is 
subject to the Terms and Conditions on the second page and the Applicant(s) 
acknowledge they have read and understood in full.
Your subscription fees are non-refundable and this agreement cannot be cancelled 
after commencement of the attached terms and conditions. Commencement of your 
agreement begins upon agreeing and authorising payment
It says that £2,000 was paid for this and was received on the Date of Sale. The subscription 
is described as a One Time Only Subscription. 
Two of the attached terms read:
4. The duration of this application is for a period of 364 days from the date of 
registration for no additional cost and this facility is repeated at the end of each 364 
day period. The Purchaser understands that the Product is not a long term holiday 
product (LTHP) or Timeshare, and as such does NOT fall under any part of the 2011 
EU Timeshare Directive , with regards to a statutory legal requirement offer of a 
"COOLING OFF PERIOD"
10. Partners consistently change, update and evolve the range of partners and 
destinations with whom it works. All travel arrangements are booked through ABTA 
and ATOL bonded agents. Credits have a start date from the "initial Payment" date, 
credits have no expiry date but end once all credits are spent.
Mr T has also signed a document to say that he used 92 THA credits for a dinner for two 
people, leaving 708 credits.
Mr T has also provided a document stating that he was receiving five free holidays, but its 
not clear which business was providing this.
Finally, Mr T has provided a copy of a credit card receipt showing that €2,577 was paid to 
THA.
What payments were made?
It is recorded on Mr Ts Nationwide credit card statement that he made two payments 1 
February 2016. One was for £1,971.40 (being €2,577) to THA and one for £1,972.17 (being 
€2,679) to LLG.
Ive not been shown any evidence of a bank transfer being made to S.What were the agreements?
I find that Mr T purchased something from S as detailed in the document titled Subscription 
for the exclusive use of [S] travel. Its not clear to me what this was for, Mr T says it was for 
travel and holiday services, which would fit with the other agreements he entered into on the 
Date of Sale. The contract price was £4,000. I cant say whether the payment toward this 
was the payment made by bank transfer of £4,730 on 28 June 2016
I also think S agreed to make a claim on Mr Ts behalf in relation to existing timeshare  
memberships he held. It is not clear what that claim was actually for, but S said Mr T would 
get a pay out within sixty days of the Date of Sale. In exchange, Mr T agreed to pay a 
percentage of what was recovered to S.
Mr T also purchased services of some kind from THA. I find this was arranged by S, most 
likely acting as agents for THA, as Mr T only recalls one meeting on the Date of Sale when 
he agreed to go ahead with the agreements. I think this was paid for by the credit card 
payment made to THA, even though the payment was recorded on the statement as having 
taken place two days after the Date of Sale.
These agreements were entered into at the same time and at the same meeting, so to some 
extent they are linked in that there is nothing to suggest Mr T was offered these parts of the 
deal individually. But I cant see that the businesses involved were all linked or trading 
names of the same company.
Was Nationwide jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the 
creditor. So here, Mr T (the debtor) was asking Nationwide (the creditor) to answer his 
claims about what he said had gone wrong.
But this doesnt apply to every claim Mr T may have. Nationwide is only responsible for 
claims when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This is set out 
more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be arrangements in place 
so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit card. In Mr Ts case, he paid 
LLG sand THA directly with his credit card. I dont think it is in dispute that Nationwide could 
be held jointly responsible for any claim of a breach of the contract with THA that arose from 
the THA agreement or of a misrepresentation that led Mr T into entering into agreement with 
THA. Its not clear whether the payment to LLG was used to fund that agreement with S, but 
I dont need to make a finding on that as, for the reasons Ill come on to, I dont think Mr Ts 
complaint succeeds even if Nationwide were also responsible for a breach of the S 
agreement too.
Did Nationwide properly consider the claims?
Nationwide has said there was no evidence that there was a misrepresentation made or a 
breach of contract that it could be responsible to answer and our investigator agreed. So Ive 
considered what Mr T said went wrong and whether any of that was something Nationwide 
was also responsible to answer under s.75 CCA.
Mr T has said that S breached its agreement with him as it failed to cancel the agreements 
when he asked it to and, under the Timeshare Regulations, he had fourteen days to cancel 
it, during which S shouldnt have taken payment.
Im not sure that the Timeshare Regulations applied to Mr Ts purchases. I say that as he bought these things overseas, but the Timeshare Regulations are UK legislation and I cant 
see that UK law applied to any of Mr Ts agreements. The Timeshare Regulations are also 
based on a 2009 EU Directive, which came into effect in 2011. I noted that both the S and 
THA agreements Ive detailed above say the 2011 EU Directive doesnt apply and I assume 
this is in reference to the Directive published in 2009. But, even if it did and there was a 
fourteen day cooling off period, I dont think it means Nationwide needs to do anything 
further.
Mr T has provided a copy of a letter that was sent to cancel the agreements dated 22 
February 2016. It noted that the agreements were taken out on 30 January and said this 
letter was confirmation that Mr T wished to cancel the agreements with immediate effect. 
The letter states that Mr T was told the money paid would be put into a holding account for 
thirty days, but actually the payment was taken from the credit card, which hadnt been 
agreed on the Date of Sale. 
The cancellation letter was sent more that fourteen days after the Date of Sale and nowhere 
in the letter does it say that Mr T tried to cancel the agreements earlier. Further, what PR 
has said about when Mr T tried to cancel has been inconsistent  when the complaint was 
first made, it was said Mr T tried to cancel the following day, but in response to our 
investigators view, it said it was two days after. Based on everything Ive seen, I think Mr T 
tried to cancel the agreements outside of any fourteen day cancellation period. It also follows 
that, even if payment was taken improperly within that period, S and THA would be entitled 
to take it before Mr T tried to cancel twenty three days later, so I cant see hes lost out as a 
result of anything he said went wrong. Further, the fact that Mr T has provided a receipt 
showing he made a payment to THA on the Date of Sale doesnt fit with his memory that no 
such payment would have been taken at the time.
In response to the view, Mr T said the sale took place on a hot day and was pressured. But I 
cant see how that could amount to either a misrepresentation or breach of contract, which 
were the things he could make a claim for against Nationwide under s.75 CCA. Further, Mr T 
being told that S or THA were ABTA or ATOL registered could amount to a 
misrepresentation if it was an untrue statement of fact, which induced him to enter an 
agreement, thereby causing him loss. But Mr T only mentioned this after hed received our 
investigators view  it wasnt part of his initial claim and he didnt mention it to us sooner, so 
I cant say that the status of the seller was something that was important to him or something 
he relied upon when taking out the agreements. 
Mr T has said that he didnt get any of the benefits he expected to receive under the 
agreements, however hes not said that was because they werent offered to him, rather it 
was because he tried to cancel the agreements. So I cant say, on the evidence presented, 
that there was any breach of the agreements. Nor has Mr T pointed to any misrepresentation 
that induced him into entering the agreements. So I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to 
decline his claim under s.75 CCA based on the evidence provided and arguments made.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman