DRN-3144043
The complaint
Mr A complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Mr A as follows: 
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount repayable 
including interestDate repaid
27/02/2020 £1,000 24
months£73.00 £1,752 30/05/2020
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr A with the loan and he asked Everyday Loans to pay redress for this. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that Mr A had 
taken a loan (from another lender) to consolidate some of his debts prior to this loan which 
wasnt reflected on the credit file but reduced his outstanding balance. As a result Everyday 
Loans had excluded those consolidated debts when doing its affordability checks.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr A 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out an affordability check. The checks had 
to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the loan 
sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr A would be able repay his loan sustainably. 
There was no set list of checks that Everyday Loans had to do, but it could consider a 
number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan term, the 
repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. 
Everyday Loans gathered information that showed Mr As take home pay would be around 
£2,847 and verified his employment and pay by looking at a payslip and checking his bank 
statements. It carried out credit checks to see what he was paying to service his existing 
debts and noted his creditor repayments were around £1,966. Everyday Loans relied on 
statistical information to assess what someone in Mr As particular situation would be likely 
to spend each month and allowed a figure of £835 for his spending on general living costs 
 which seems reasonable to me. And I think these checks were broadly proportionate in the 
circumstances.
Everyday Loans allowed for the fact that Mr A had recently taken out a £10,000 loan with 
another lender and that this was for the purpose of debt consolidation - in other words, it was 
to pay other debts that Everyday Loans saw on the credit report it obtained. Everyday Loans 
worked out that the debt Mr A was consolidating had been costing him £220 per month  so 
it didnt include this amount when doing its own affordability calculations. On this basis, 
Everyday Loans calculated that Mr A would most likely have around £193 spare cash each 
month after taking out the loan with Everyday Loans. 
I think the checks that Everyday Loans did were reasonable and proportionate. But, whilst 
I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that Everyday Loans 
made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
As far as I can see, Everyday Loans doesnt seem to have allowed for Mr As monthly 
mortgage repayments when it assessed affordability. Mr A paid £843 each month for his 
mortgage. So, if this is factored in to Everyday Loans affordability assessment, it looks like 
Mr As actual monthly expenditure would likely have (quite significantly) exceeded his 
monthly income. And I think thats borne out by his bank statements that show he was 
regularly and substantially overdrawn and paying monthly overdraft fees. 
Given that the purpose of this loan was for a holiday, Everyday Loans would have been 
aware that the loan would be adding to Mr As overall indebtedness. So I think, as a 
responsible lender, this should have prompted Everyday Loans to decline his loan 
application.Looking at the information Everyday Loans had gathered when assessing Mr As loan 
application, Im not sure that it properly took into account the cost of the £10,000 loan Mr A 
had taken out just a few weeks earlier. The monthly repayments on that loan were typically 
going to be around £255. So this would mean that in reality Mr A would now be spending 
more each month on credit even after consolidating other debts that had been costing him 
around £220 per month. Given that he was already in an unsustainable financial situation, 
this additional cost would clearly be more than Mr A could realistically expect to pay.
And, looking at things another way, excluding from its affordability assessment the accounts 
that Mr A was going to consolidate with the £10,000 loan, this reduced his monthly credit 
spend to £1,746 according to Everyday Loans figures. But add on the new monthly 
repayments of £255 for the £10,000 loan (which doesnt appear to be correctly shown in the 
information Everyday Loans gathered as it appears with just a £1 balance) this means 
Mr As new monthly spending on credit would be £2,001.
By my reckoning, this meant Mr A needed to spend around 70% of his take home pay just 
servicing that debt. 
So given his new loan with Everyday Loans would cost him another £73 per month, 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mr As monthly income Everyday 
Loans couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that Mr A would be able to repay its 
loan in a sustainable way  especially bearing in mind the two year loan term. 
As well as this, I think Everyday Loans was able to see that Mr As credit report showed that 
he had an established track record of extensive reliance on expensive credit. I think 
Everyday Loans couldve seen that Mr A was living beyond his means and supplementing 
his income with credit to fund his day to day spending. The fact that Mr A was able to repay 
this loan early doesnt mean I can assume that he was able to do so in a way that was 
sustainable for him. 
So, for all these reasons, to my mind, it was reasonably foreseeable that its loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for Mr A and Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware 
that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr A and serve only to increase his 
indebtedness over the longer term. 
And I am planning on upholding Mr As complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably some other way. So Im not planning to award any additional redress over and 
above what I've set out below. But as Mr A has been further indebted with an expensive loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong. So, as things stand, I think Everyday Loans needs to put 
things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Everyday Loans has acknowledged safe receipt of my provisional decision but neither Mr A 
nor Everyday Loans has commented further on what I've said. As the deadline for responses 
has now passed I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, and as 
no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr A shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. Everyday Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to 
take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman