DRN-4350046
The complaint
Ms F complains, with the help of a representative, that James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd (James Hay) failed in its duties in the establishment of her SIPP and in permitting the 
purchase of Elysian Fuels shares within her newly established SIPP. 
What happened
Ms F says that she was approached by an unregulated individual, Mr B, and advised to 
transfer her pensions to a SIPP and to invest in Elysian Fuels. She says that he made all of 
the arrangements, including for the financing of the original purchase of the Elysian Fuels 
shares in her personal capacity. 
A SIPP application form signed on 13 November 2013, listed Ms Fs occupation as director 
and her annual income as £50,000. Ms F confirmed she waived her cancellation rights. 
An internal anti-money laundering check was completed by James Hay on 22 November 
2013, this contains a handwritten note saying: need to call for nature of business and there 
is a tick next to this note. Elsewhere its noted that Ms F confirmed she was a nursery 
practitioner when called about the nature of her business. 
Monies were transferred from Ms Fs personal pension plan and her group pension plan into 
her newly established SIPP in December 2013 and January 2014 respectively. 
After the SIPP had been established Ms F sent James Hay instructions to purchase 
£112,000 Elysian Fuels shares, along with some other paperwork. Including: 
A self-certified sophisticated investor form 
An unquoted share questionnaire 
Elysian Fuels risk warnings (for an earlier tranche of Elysian Fuels shares)
A share certificate 
A stock transfer form 
A deed of adherence 
James Hay has told us that it received this correspondence on 31 March 2014. 
The share certificate was for 112,000 shares and certified that Ms F was the registered 
holder(s) of the above number of Class A Preference Shares of £1 each fully paid in Elysian 
Fuels No. [number of tranche of shares] subject to the Articles of Association of the 
Company. Given under the Securities Seal of the Company on this the 6th March 2014.
On the self-certified sophisticated investor form Ms F confirmed that: 
I am a self-certified sophisticated investor because at least one of the following 
applies: 
(b) I have made more than one investment in an unlisted company in the two years 
prior to the date below (please provide details of all the investments made)
The form was signed on 16 March 2014. In connection with the self-certified sophisticated 
investor form, Ms F provided evidence of investments she had made on a peer-to-peer 
lending platform. All of the transactions shown were placed on 5 March 2014 and amounted 
to a total of £60. 
The unquoted share questionnaire listed the required documentation for all applications and 
the additional documentation required depending on the status of the company: 
ALL APPLICATIONS 
1) Company Prospectus or Company Brochure 
2) A copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association 
3) Independent Share Valuation 
4) Directors Statement 
5) Shareholders Agreement 
6) Subscription Agreement (if applicable)
7) Ancillary Documentation (if applicable, such as Deed of Adherence, Stock 
Transfer Form, Shareholder Resolutions, Board minutes relating to the 
investment)
ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED
Company trading more than 2 years old 
Copies of last 2 years company accounts 
Copy of Financial Adviser recommendation if via a Financial Adviser 
Accountants Letter  see below.
Company trading less than 2 years but not a start up 
Copies of all company accounts produced  if no company account available a 
copy of the Company Business Plan
Copy of Financial Adviser recommendation if via a Financial Adviser 
Accountants Letter  see below. 
Start up Company 
A copy of the Company Business Plan 
Copy of Financial Adviser recommendation or confirmation that the individual is a 
Financial Adviser registered with the FCA (Direct applications are NOT 
accepted.)
Accountants letter  see below.
In line with the above in all cases the companys accountant had to reproduce and sign the 
following statement on the companys headed paper: 
I confirm: 
1. That the business is currently trading or has been established solely for the 
purpose of a legitimate commercial trading activity 
2. That the business has to the best of my knowledge never been involved in, or 
has not been established for, the purpose of pension liberation 3. That to the best of my knowledge there is nothing about the companys business 
activities that could conflict with the shares being held within a SIPP 
4. That to the best of my knowledge none of the company directors is involved in 
any activity that could result in either the SIPP member or James Hay 
Partnership being subject to an unauthorised payment tax charge under the 
Finance Act 2004.
The nature of the companys business was described as: 
member of a trading partnership which provides services on the design & build of a 
Bioethanol Facility in the UK 
It was confirmed that there was a connection between vendor and the SIPP member, in that 
the vendor was the SIPP member, Ms F. Where there is such a connection/it isnt an 
unconnected sale, details of the valuer who will provide a valuation of the shares being 
purchased by the pension scheme needed to be provided. Ms Fs form lists Hillier Hopkins 
LLP and states they are chartered accountants. 
Then the form requests Vendors bank details to which purchase funds should be 
transferred Here, details of a bank account in the name of Wannops LLP, a UK based law 
firm, are listed. 
Amongst other things, the form also confirms the class of share to be purchased as 
ordinary. And, that the approximate percentage of Ms Fs total pension savings that the 
investment would represent was 97%. Much of the form appears to have been prepopulated 
in type with only a handful of questions answered in handwriting. The form lists a prior 
Elysian Fuels company, which has been corrected to the one in which Ms F invested. 
The risk warning declaration also lists the prior Elysian Fuels company as opposed to the 
proposed investment. This form was signed on 16 March 2014. 
A Hillier Hopkins LLP report dated 13 November 2013 is addressed to Future Capital 
Partners (FCP), the promoters of the investment. In the introductory paragraphs set out the 
purpose and parameters of the report: 
In accordance with your instructions, we set out below our opinion on the 
appropriate accounting treatments which would be afforded to entities within the 
Elysian Structure. This opinion is based entirely upon our understanding of 
information and explanations you have given us in connection with the business and 
activities of the entities concerned as you have described them to us and as set out 
in this letter. 
We understand that you have requested this letter in order to obtain a better and 
independent understanding of the financial and reporting effects of the activities of 
the entities and to obtain confirmation of the current rules. Our opinion is specific to 
the circumstances connected with the contracts and transactions as explained to us 
and described below and does not necessarily have general application. 
This letter is prepared subject to the limitations set out at the end of the letter, and in 
accordance with our invariable practice, we accept no liability whatsoever to any 
person who is not our client in respect of the matters which we set out below, or 
otherwise, to the fullest extent permitted by law. Where we refer to the Elysian Structure, this is not a term which carries meaning 
other than a description of the arrangements you have described to us for the funding 
of a project (in this case, the Elysian bio-ethanol project).
The report, amongst other things, goes on to say: 
The Company will treat its investment in the LLP as a fixed asset investment. It is a 
long-term investment in an unlisted entity. As stated above, it is a high risk 
investment whose outcome is uncertain, but in respect of which there is no material 
difference in the circumstances now compared to those at the date of the investment. 
Assuming that the Company reports under UK GAAP, as a fixed asset investment, 
UK GAAP requires that it is stated at its market value, which, in the case of an 
investment in a private entity with no ready market for its shares, would normally be 
at cost, less any necessary provision for impairment of the investment. At each 
balance sheet date, the Company should review analytically, whether or not there 
has been any impairment to the value of its asset. 
At the point of investment in the LLP, the purpose and application of the investment 
is known to the Company and perceived by it to be worth the value paid. Impairment 
will occur if and only if circumstances or information arise that would change 
perception of the prospects and likelihood of a successful outcome. It is therefore 
logical that at the date of investment, the company considered the value of the 
investment to be worth not less than the amount it paid. 

Limitations on this report
This opinion does not apply to any Company that may seek a listing on a Stock 
Exchange. We have not, except where explicitly mentioned in this report, considered 
the effect of any regulations for financial reporting that may apply if UK GAAP were 
not adopted, and we are advised that there is currently no intention to report under 
any other accounting standard. 
We base all of our understanding of the transactions and intentions of the of the 
parties on the information provided to us by the partnership consultants or you, as 
their agents. 
We are not expert valuers of Bio Ethanol or other energy projects and we cannot 
comment on the value of the project nor the level of proceeds which might actually be 
achieved by any entity once the plant has been completed. 
This report is not a valuation of the project, the business, the members capital of the 
LLP, not of the shares in the Company. It may not be used for any purpose other 
than that stated at the beginning of this letter. It is an explanation of the accounting 
treatment that we consider will be most appropriate under current accounting 
standards on the basis of the information and explanations given to us for the 
purpose of this report.
A copy of the certificate of incorporation for the relevant Elysian Fuels scheme confirms that 
it was incorporated on 6 August 2013. 
On 2 April 2014, Ms F wrote to the James Hay contact team saying: I confirm that the money from the iSIPP is being used for the LLP. Please can you 
confirm that everything is ahead. [sic]
On 3 April 2014, James Hay wrote to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) enclosing the stock 
transfer form and a check for £560 for stamp duty. The transfer form was duly stamped and 
returned. 
A loan agreement dated 4 April 2014, signed by Ms F (although her signature isnt dated), 
amongst other things, set out that: 
I hereby confirm by this letter loan agreement (Agreement) that I owe £18,592.00 to 
you (Debt). I further confirm that I will pay the Debt to you on receipt of a written demand 
from you together with any interest accrued on the principle amount of the Debt as at the 
date of repayment. 
1. FACILITY 
Loan Facility  to be drawn on request giving not less than 7 working days notice. 
2. PURPOSE
To finance the purchase of 112,000 shares by me in Elysian Fuels No. [number 
of this Elysian Fuels tranche] plc. 
3. TERM
The loan shall be available from the 5 April 2014 for a period of up to 2 months 
(Term).
4. INTEREST AND ARRANGEMENT
Interest and arrangement costs will be charged at £83,402.25. [my 
emphasis]
And it confirmed the lenders legal costs: 
The lenders legal costs and disbursements of £1,000 plus VAT and £90 
disbursements totalling £1,290, will be paid by me on repayment added to the loan 
facility. 
The conditions that had to be met: 
i) The duplicate of the letter duly executed.
ii) Due Diligence requested by the Lender from the borrower to comply with all anti 
money laundering procedures, to comprise confirmation of identity (passport or 
driving license) and normal residential abode (current utility bill or bank 
statement).
iii) Official confirmation from Future Capital Partners Limited, the Registrar and 
Promoter of Elysian Fuels, that the purchase transaction for which this loan 
facility is being provided has been successfully executed and that the ownership 
of the shares in question has been amended accordingly on their records. 
The applicable law: 
This agreement (and any dispute controversy, proceedings or claim of whatever 
nature arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement or any act performed or claimed to be performed under it) shall be governed by and in accordance with the 
laws of the British Virgin Islands. The Borrower and Lender irrevocably submit to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the British Virgin Islands
The agreement was addressed to International Financial Placement Limited, who were 
based in Gibraltar. 
On 16 April 2014, James Hay wrote to FCP with the relevant documentation to transfer 
112,000 Elysian Fuels shares to the SIPP. Including a Deed of Adherence dated the same 
date. 
The Elysian Fuels Class A Preference Shares were purchased on 29 April 2014. 
James Hay wrote to Ms F on the same date confirming that £112,000 had been paid from 
Ms Fs SIPP to a bank account held by Wannops LLP for the purchase of the Elysian Fuels 
shares. Of this, £27,307.75 was paid to Ms F. It isnt clear what ultimately happened to the 
remaining £84,692.25 paid from Ms Fs SIPP, I note that this is the sum total of the interest 
and arrangement and legal costs listed in the loan agreement above. Ms F has provided us 
with a copy of her bank statement, which shows receipt of £27,307.75 from Wannops LLP 
on 30 April 2014. Wannops LLP has recently confirmed that the balance less its fees were 
paid on the same date to Exceptional Management Limited its client as lender.
The transaction has since been investigated by HMRC. In a letter to Ms F HMRC said: 
Elysian Fuels No. [number for this tranche of Elysian Fuels] PLC
HMRC also considers that the shares disposed of to the Pension Scheme were 
worthless. As a result of this the payment your client received from the Pension 
Scheme is regarded as an unauthorised payment from the scheme. Unauthorised 
payments from Pension Schemes attract a tax charge of 40% under S208 Finance 
Act (FA) 2004. In addition to this the unauthorised payment may attract a surcharge 
of 15% under S209 FA2004.
HMRC made a without prejudice offer to Ms F to settle the unauthorised payment charge of 
just under £60,000. Ms F hasnt been able to settle the unauthorised payment charge. 
Background to the complaint 
Ms F complained to James Hay. Unhappy with James Hays response Ms F referred her 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded 
that it should be upheld  in that James Hay shouldnt have accepted the Elysian Fuels 
investment. But he thought that it should only be liable for the tax consequences of this, 
given that the investment was initially made without James Hays knowledge or involvement. 
Both parties to the complaint disagreed with the investigators assessment. They have both 
made numerous and substantial submissions to us in support of their respective positions. 
These submissions have been shared as appropriate with the parties to this complaint. Ive 
considered these submissions in their entirety, but I dont think its necessary to include a 
detailed summary of the submissions here. Ive included brief summaries of the overall 
submissions made by the respective parties below. As mentioned above, Ms F has a 
representative operating on her behalf, Ive referred to the submissions as being made by 
Ms F whether these were made by her or by her representative on her behalf. 
Ms Fs submissionsOur narrow interpretation of the complaint and the impact of James Hays failings is 
incorrect. 
Whilst the assessment acknowledges much of how the scheme operated and what 
went wrong, it doesnt go far enough to put things right. 
James Hay didnt treat Ms F fairly and reasonably in numerous ways. 
Its James Hays failings that made the wider scheme possible, but for its acceptance 
of the Elysian Fuels investment, the liberation scheme couldnt operate and, in turn, 
Ms F would never have entered into the arrangement. 
The proposed redress doesnt account for a number of costs/losses Ms F has 
incurred such as costs associated with the SIPP, which was only established for the 
purpose of holding the Elysian Fuels investment. 
The proposed redress isnt in line with awards made in recent decisions against 
advisers and doesnt account for the stress that Ms F has suffered. 
Ms F wasnt a higher rate taxpayer  in fact with an income of around £11,000 she 
was hardly paying any tax at all  and would have been entitled to 25% of funds 
withdrawn from her pension tax-free, and this wasnt accounted for in the 
recommended award in this case. 
Ms F says that James Hays failings included: 
oAccepting the shares at a value of £1.
oFailure to recognise the regular involvement of Wannops LLP in their clients 
SIPP arrangements. 
oFailure to identify the beneficial recipient of the payment of Ms Fs pension 
funds. 
oFailure to recognise the discrepancy between the owner of the Elysian Fuels 
shares and the party that was being paid to purchase the shares. 
oThe incorrect categorisation of Ms F as a sophisticated investor. 
oPermitting Ms F to invest in a start up company despite her being a direct 
client  which was prohibited by James Hay. 
oPermitting the purchase of Elysian Fuels shares without an accountants letter 
or directors statement  which are internal control requirements when dealing 
with unquoted shares. 
oFailure to obtain an independent valuation of the Elysian Fuels shares. 
The timing and method of payment of compensation shouldnt be at James Hays 
discretion. This doesnt provide adequate closure. Ms F has never been in a financial 
position to settle the unauthorised payment charge with HMRC.
James Hay should provide an indemnity against being required to reimburse it for 
any scheme sanction charge levied. Or, pass this cost onto Ms F by other means. 
Ms F says that but for James Hays failings: 
oMs Fs pension funds couldnt have been used to acquire Elysian Fuels 
shares. 
oNone of her pension funds would have been paid to Wannops LLP in 
consideration for the shares. 
oShe wouldnt be being pursued by HMRC for additional tax and penalties. 
oShe would have a pension to draw throughout her retirement, 25% of which 
she could draw as a tax-free lump sum. 
oShe wouldnt have incurred fees for the establishment and ongoing 
administration of her SIPP. 
oShe wouldnt have had to engage the services of a professional 
representative. 
oShe wouldnt have had the stress of not only losing her pension but also 
being pursued by HMRC for around £60,000.Compensation in this case must account for all of the above in order to fairly put 
things right for Ms F. 
James Hays behaviour throughout the course of its defence of this complaint has 
been in breach of its duties, including under the dispute resolution rules (DISP). 
James Hay confirmed Ms Fs employment as a nursery practitioner as part of the 
application process. 
It did issue risk warnings and disclaimers, but this didnt absolve it from complying 
with its regulatory obligations. 
It is inconceivable that James Hay wasnt aware of the limited recourse financing. For 
example, as part of its process where a consumer is acquiring unquoted shares 
James Hay required sight of the recommendation letters for advised clients. 
The Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options makes it clear that a SIPP 
provider may carry responsibility for activities undertaken by unregulated third parties 
who induced individuals to take out SIPPs with them as direct clients, and that this 
was the case even where the SIPP provider wasnt aware of the activities of the 
unregulated third party. Here, an unauthorised party was advising Ms F and making 
arrangements. This should have been clear to James Hay given the number of direct 
clients looking to sell Elysian Fuels shares to their newly established SIPPs and 
asking for the proceeds to be paid to Wannops LLP. 
Ms F entered into the James Hay SIPP contract as a result of things said and done 
by Mr B acting in breach of the general prohibition, so section 27 is triggered. 
In determining what is fair and reasonable the ombudsman must take into account 
relevant law, including Adams v Options and Berkeley Burke. 
HMRC has issued a scheme sanction charge to James Hay, in its unquoted share 
questionnaire James Hay provides that clients such as Ms F will be required to 
reimburse it on demand in such circumstances. James Hay must indemnify Ms F 
against any such claim. 
Ms F wasnt seeking to withdraw funds from her pension, she was only three years 
away from pensionable age at which stage she would have been able to withdraw 
funds from her pension without the risk of penalty. And, but for this scheme, Ms F 
wouldnt have drawn down her pension as a lump sum. 
James Hay submissions
Jurisdiction and regulatory obligations: 
This complaint should be dealt with by the Pension Ombudsman. The complaint is 
about pension liberation. 
The complaint doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of our service. 
It doesnt relate to regulated activities or activities undertaken by a regulated entity 
and so doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. The shares were purchased by James Hay 
Pension Trustees Limited  which isnt a regulated entity and wasnt subject to any 
regulatory obligations. 
It isnt clear what the nature of the alleged regulatory obligations referenced in the 
investigators view are or how they apply in the context of the transaction complained 
about. 
It didnt provide Ms F with any advice, nor was it authorised to do so. 
James Hays responsibility and knowledge
Ms F purchased the shares without James Hays knowledge, it only became aware of 
this when she instructed it to purchase the shares at the same price she had paid for 
them. James Hay is in no way responsible for investment losses suffered by Ms F. 
There are two approaches to establishing the losses Ms F has suffered in respect of 
tax 1) to compare the tax which may fall due as a result of the alleged liberation as 
opposed to the tax that would have fallen due had she withdrawn the funds from her 
pension after age 55 2) to consider the tax relief Ms F would be entitled to if she were 
to seek to put herself in the position she would have been in had she not allegedly 
liberated £112,000 from her SIPP.
It acted fairly and reasonably in paying monies to Wannops LLP and cant be held 
responsible for Wannops LLP failure to pay the funds on to Ms F. 
It isnt clear whether the investigators conclusion that James Hay should have been 
aware that the Elysian Fuels shares were not appropriate to accept in Ms Fs SIPP 
relates to the decision to accept Elysian Fuels shares or the value at which they were 
purchased or both. And, it isnt clear if our conclusion is that James Hay should have 
rejected the instruction to purchase Elysian Fuels shares or if it was permitted to 
purchase the shares at a different price. 
It doesnt accept that it erred in respect of any of these interpretations, it fully 
discharged its duties and complied with its regulatory obligations in respect of due 
diligence. The due diligence it undertook indicated that the face value of £1 per share 
was a reasonable price to pay for the shares and it was James Hays understanding 
that this is what the customers had paid for the shares. 
Whilst the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Dear CEO letter post-dates Ms Fs 
investment, it complied with the guidelines set out in that letter. James Hay undertook 
sufficient due diligence and understood the nature of the investment. 
The promotional material highlighted the risks and it concluded that the investment 
had been properly and fairly promoted. 
Elysian Fuels was a genuine investment, not a scam and not linked to fraudulent 
activity or money laundering. It isnt disputed that consumers obtained title to a 
genuine investment via share certificates. HMRCs assessment is that it was pension 
liberation, but this wasnt apparent at the time. 
The mechanism by which pension liberation has (allegedly) occurred is from 
investors purchasing Elysian Fuels shares at considerably less than their face value 
(for example, £0.16 rather than £1.00), funding the balance of the initial subscription 
price with a limited recourse loan which was not disclosed to James Hay, and then 
quickly selling the shares to their SIPPs at face value of £1.00, thereby liberating 
funds from their SIPPs. 
James Hay relied on letters/reports from Hillier Hopkins LLP as a source for 
determining the value of the shares; Hillier Hopkins LLP was an independent source 
and a reputable entity registered with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales (ICAEW). Its unclear what else James Hay could have done as 
the shares were unquoted shares in a start up company. The price of the shares was 
confirmed by the company secretary and was the same as that listed on recognised 
stock exchanges for other tranches of Elysian Fuels shares. The investigators view 
doesnt make it clear why James Hay couldnt reasonably rely on this information. 
The disclaimer wording is standard for this type of report. The report states that 
under the circumstances unquoted shares are valued at cost.
Its also unclear how we have reached the conclusion that the shares are valueless. 
The basis for determining the shares had nil value is HMRCs opinion, which hasnt 
been tested or upheld in a court or tribunal. In without prejudice offers HMRC has 
ascribed value to the shares. 
Unquoted shares were (and continue to be) a permissible investment for a SIPP and 
it fulfilled its duties in respect of the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares. It is unfair 
and unreasonable that James Hay be penalised for the complainants personal tax 
consequences. Numerous investors, including Ms F, made misrepresentations to James Hay as to 
their high-net-worth investor status. This was an important control that it had put in 
place due to the high-risk non-standard nature of the investment. 
James Hay reasonably accepted the face-value £1 cost of the share, the limited 
recourse loan used to facilitate the purchase wasnt disclosed to it and it was 
reasonable to assume that a high-net-worth individual may have access to sufficient 
funds to purchase the shares at full cost. So, it was reasonable for James Hay to 
purchase the shares at £1 and not to realise there was the underlying potential for 
pension liberation. 
Some tranches of Elysian Fuels shares were registered on recognised stock 
exchanges. 
Taking into account HMRCs current view and the incurrence of unauthorised 
payment charges is looking at what happened with the benefit of hindsight. We need 
to consider what James Hay should have known and concluded at the time. 
The Future Capital Project Finance Ltd unaudited directors report and financial 
statements for the period ending 29 April 2013 referenced in the investigators view 
only became available from Companies House, signed off by auditors and the Board, 
from 29 April 2014, after the events about which Ms F complains. 
In its letter to this service dated 29 October 2019, James Hay set out in detail the 
actions it took in June 2013 when it suspended investments into Elysian Fuels after 
becoming aware of the financing available to investors leading to concerns that 
shares were being acquired at a discount. It also set out the information it received in 
response to its enquiries and how this reassured it that the third-party funding didnt 
amount to a discount. The letter set out that the circularity of the flow of funds wasnt 
apparent at that time, and so the suspension was lifted in July 2013. 
Even if James Hay had made further enquiries with Ms F, it believes that this 
wouldnt have revealed the borrowing mechanisms behind the transaction  given the 
misleading information she provided and under the likely guidance of Mr B  Ms F 
would have denied that any loans were involved. 
To test this point fairly and reasonably, there should be a hearing of Ms Fs evidence. 
Indeed, Ms F has asserted that Mr B dealt with everything, he probably got a 
woman on the phone and say it was me [sic]. The fact that Ms F is saying that 
Mr B would do anything to ensure the investment was made is a critical point. 
Redress and further information sought: 
James Hay accepts that the calculation of redress must be limited to additional tax 
if the complaint is upheld. 
Ms F hasnt paid any tax on the sale of Elysian Fuel shares to her SIPP, it isnt clear 
that she is under any obligation to make a payment for any tax now sought given the 
amount of time thats lapsed. 
James Hay agrees that it shouldnt have to make any redress payment to a 
complainant, such as Ms F, who hasnt made any payment to HMRC. It also 
considers that it shouldnt have to make any payment where the complainant has no 
obligation to pay HMRC or where the complainant hasnt paid any properly due and 
owing tax in full to HMRC. 
Our investigator explained that he wasnt minded to change his position based on the 
submissions made and explained why. Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case 
was passed to me for review. 
I sent my provisional decision to the parties to the complaint explaining why I thought Ms Fs 
complaint should be upheld. The parties to the complaint entered into settlement negotiations but were ultimately unable to reach an agreement. Both parties made further 
submissions in response to my provisional decision. 
James Hays submissions
James Hay has made a number of submissions in response to my provisional decision. Ive 
read and considered these in full in conjunction with its previous submissions. Here Ive 
included a high-level summary of what I consider to be the key points. 
Monies paid to Wannops
The findings reached holding James Hay responsible for the funds paid to Wannops 
LLP are wrong in fact and at law. 
The monies which werent paid to Ms F were used to repay the loan she had entered 
into to fund the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares in her personal capacity. The 
cause of this loss therefore was said loan agreement entered into before James 
Hays involvement. And, the monies were used in any event for the benefit of Ms F, 
to award capital and investment losses would overcompensate her. 
More information needs to be gathered about the arrangements made at the time 
and why Ms F instructed monies be paid to Wannops LLP, and if she expected to 
receive more money than she did, why was this not raised at the time. 
If James Hay had refused to make the payment Ms F would have been in breach of 
her obligations under the loan agreement (of which it was unaware) and it would 
have been in breach of a formal written instruction. 
The correct analysis of the situation is that the monies wouldnt had been transferred 
to Wannops LLP but for the loan agreement. The connection between the loan and 
transfer to Wannops LLP is key as this is what lead to Ms F giving an amount from 
her pension. This is the causally relevant event and not James Hay payment to 
Wannops LLP.
Any loss of monies that its claimed should have been paid to Ms F and not to 
Wannops LLP or another third party is too far removed from the acts or omissions of 
James Hay  the act of paying Wannops LLP in accordance with Ms Fs instruction in 
the course of her investment in Elysian Fuels. 
Manchester Building Society v Grant Thornton UK LLP [2021] UKSC 20 (MBS) is 
relevant caselaw in light of which it considers it cant be fair and reasonable to say 
that it fell to James Hay to ensure Wannops LLPs appropriate dealing with money 
held within its client account. And, set out the test in relation to the scope of a 
professionals duty of care and held that it should be determined by the purpose of 
the duty of care.
The provisional findings fail to comply with DISP 3.6.4R having not taken into 
account all relevant law and further, having gone beyond our services own rules in 
purporting to extend the scope of Berkeley Burke and omitting to explain why I 
departed from the relevant law and Berkeley Burke. 
Breach of trust
More information should be obtained and shared with it about what happened with 
Wannops LLP and what happened with the monies paid to it from Ms Fs SIPP.
If it were to transpire that there was a relationship between Wannops LLP and Ms F, 
and Wannops LLP did not use the funds in the client account in accordance with 
instructions or for the benefit of the Complainant, then Wannops LLP may have acted 
in breach of trust. 
Due Diligence ObligationsIts wrong that Berkeley Burke has been relied on and little to weight has been placed 
on High Court and Court of Appeal judgments in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP 
[[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch)] and Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [[2021] 
EWCA Civ 474] (Adams).
The provisional decision further extends the obligations on SIPP providers as 
contained within the Berkeley Burke judgment. In that it suggests it was incumbent 
upon James Hay to examine where Ms Fs money would be invested. 
James Hay obligations didnt and couldnt have included ensuring any aspect of how 
the investment operated. 
Common law does not impose obligations to ensure an outcome (in the absence of a 
specific agreement to that effect). Common law obligations, particularly in relation to 
matters which involve or depend on third parties, are to take reasonable care to 
secure an outcome, which James Hay did (including through the due diligence it 
conducted).
Some tranches of Elysian Fuels shares were listed on recognised stock exchanges 
with a valuation of £1 per share which matched the price paid by investors upon their 
personal share purchase. Reliance was reasonably placed on all of those factors in 
determining that a valuation of £1 per share for the purchase by investors'
SIPPs was reasonable and that there were no compelling reasons to have attributed 
any other valuation to the shares or to have refused to purchase at the same. There 
were no material differences between tranches of Elysian Fuels shares such that the 
valuation of the listed shares was reasonably relevant to all Elysian Fuels shares.
Calculation of redress 
The benchmark used doesnt reflect the circumstances in this complaint  given what 
Ms F has said about how she spent the money it is highly unlikely she would have 
considered an investment opportunity that would have provided her a return in line 
with the index. 
A fair and reasonable comparator to calculate Ms F's loss would be the lower 
discount rates, as detailed in Final Guidance GF17/9. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service has previously adopted this position.
Its not reasonable for the redress methodology to be based on the assumption that 
Ms F will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. Accurate information must be 
obtained about this. 
An interest rate of 8% is too high, the applicable interest rate should at most be 2.5% 
above base rate. 
What Wannops LLP has told us: 
Wannops received £112,000 from a James Hay Santander bank account on 30 April 
2014. Wannops acted for its client Exceptional Management Limited as lender. I 
have asked for the client file to be retrieved from storage and will contact you again 
regarding any correspondence with James Hay...
On 30 April 2014, Wannops sent to Ms F £27,307.75. The records do not record the 
bank account details to which the funds were transferred. The balance less Wannops 
fees of £1,290 of £83,402.25 was sent on the same date to Exceptional Management 
Limited.
And Wannops LLP recently told James Hay:"Wannops did not act for any of your clients named in [James Hays] letter nor, of 
course, for the avoidance of doubt, did it act for James Hay. Wannops was instructed 
in relation to the drafting of loan agreements for the lender Exceptional Management 
Limited. Wannops received funds from a Santander account from James Hay on the 
instructions of the borrowers to facilitate the repayment of the loans" 
Ms Fs submissions
Ms F agrees with the decision in principle. She has provided some additional comments in 
relation to the redress methodology set out in the decision and James Hays submissions. In 
summary, she said that: 
Given everything thats happened, she feels very strongly that no element of the 
compensation should be left at the discretion of James Hay. Specifically, the 
undertaking shouldnt allow it to decide whether payment is made to Ms F or HMRC 
direct. 
The decision should clarify if interest on the unauthorised payment charge forms part 
of the compensation due. 
James Hay should be directed to provide an indemnity against it pursuing Ms F in 
relation to the scheme sanction charge it paid in relation to Elysian Fuels. 
Ms F also made submissions in response to James Hays submissions refuting its position. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed back to me for a further 
decision. 
What Ive found  and why jurisdiction
We cant consider all complaints brought to this service. Before we can consider something, 
we need to check, by reference to the FCA DISP Rules and the legislation from which those 
rules are derived, whether the complaint is one we have the power to look at and whether its 
a complaint we should consider.
Our jurisdiction to consider this complaint 
This complaint relates to the due diligence undertaken by James Hay as administrator of 
Ms Fs SIPP. James Hay (the respondent firm) is a regulated business, and the complaint 
relates to the regulated activity of establishing and operating a personal pension scheme. 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 at Section 
52 provides that: 
Establishing etc. a pension scheme
52.  The following are specified kinds of activity
(a) establishing, operating or winding up a stakeholder pension scheme;
(b) establishing, operating or winding up a personal pension scheme.
Having concluded that this complaint is one we can consider, Ive gone on to consider 
whether this is a complaint we should consider. 
James Hay has also argued that this complaint should be dealt with by the Pension 
Ombudsman. Where a complaint falls within our jurisdiction its at our discretion whether or 
not were best placed to deal with the complaint. We have been dealing with complaints about due diligence undertaken by SIPP providers 
and SIPP providers duties in establishing SIPPs and accepting/permitting particular 
investments for a number of years. We have significant experience in dealing with such 
complaints and I think were well placed to deal with Ms Fs complaint. And, in any case, this 
complaint falls within our compulsory jurisdiction and Ms F has asked our service to look into 
her complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied that this is a complaint we can and should consider, so Ive gone on to 
consider the merits of Ms Fs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, including all of the submissions I 
received in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, my findings remain as set 
out in my provisional decision, so Ive largely repeated these below, expanding on some 
points in response to the more recent submissions made.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the parties to this complaint have provided detailed 
submissions to support their position and now in response to my provisional decision. Im 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in their 
entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I 
consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the 
main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Relevant considerations
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that the relevant 
considerations in this case are those that I previously set out in my provisional decision. As 
such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely 
repeated what I said about this point in my provisional decision.
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  as at the 
relevant date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 are of particular relevance here, in my view.
Ouseley J in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a 
complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application 
of the Principles in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878). Im therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint. 
The Berkeley Burke judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive described 
above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as 
relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both of 
these judgments when making this decision on Ms Fs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Ms Fs case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R.  
In my view there are also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R 
alleged by Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and 
the issues in Ms Fs complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Ms Fs case, including James Hays role in the transaction.  
I think it is important to emphasise here that I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing 
that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that James Hay was under any obligation to 
advise Ms F on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application or not permitting an investment isnt the same thing as advising Ms F on the 
merits of investing in/using her pension to purchase Elysian Fuels shares and/or transferring 
to the SIPP. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and I 
am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider James 
Hays actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were 
the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, 
what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Ms Fs SIPP 
application and permitting her subsequent investment in Elysian Fuels shares via her SIPP, 
James Hay complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with 
due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the rules 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what James Hay could have 
done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for James Hay to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to consider whether to accept or reject particular applications for investments, in this case Elysian Fuels, with its regulatory obligations in 
mind.
I also want to reemphasise here that I do not say that James Hay was under any obligation 
to advise Ms F on the SIPP and/or the underlying investment in Elysian Fuels. Refusing to 
accept an application or permit an investment is not the same thing as advising Ms F on the 
merits of investing and/or switching to the SIPP. 
The due diligence carried out by James Hay on the Elysian Fuels  and what it should 
have done
James Hay did undertake some due diligence in relation to the Elysian Fuels scheme more 
broadly and the individual tranches of the Elysian Fuels shares. It also had bespoke 
processes in place for the purchase of unquoted shares via its SIPPs. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that it should  as a minimum  have:
Identified the Elysian Fuels investment as a high-risk, speculative and non-standard 
investment, so it shouldve carried out thorough due diligence on it.
Examined where Ms Fs money would be invested.
Considered whether the investment was suitable for a personal pension scheme.
Made sure the investment was genuine  in other words, not a scam or linked to 
fraudulent activity.
Made sure the investment worked as claimed.
Ensured that the investment could be independently valued, both at the point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensured Ms Fs SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment.
On a general note, I think James Hay should have been alive to the fact that the purpose of 
Ms Fs pension was to provide her with an income in retirement and that there was no clear 
secondary market for the shares.
Some preliminary issues 
Elysian Fuels presented as a complex investment proposition, much of this was however, in 
my view, surface level and I dont think it would have taken a lot to see past this. In other 
words, I think its most likely that due diligence in line with James Hays regulatory 
obligations would have unearthed significant concerns, some of which Ive set out in more 
detail below. 
The promotional material and reports provided go into a high level of detail about the 
bioethanol market, regulations and policies and include some detail about the business 
plans of Vireol. But they provide very little detail on how funds raised through the 
partnerships would be used and the services that would be provided by them. 
I think there were numerous concerning elements to the Elysian Fuels scheme, within this 
decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. Within the anomalous features section, I briefly consider some of the other concerning features of these investments/this 
scheme, which I think would have been discoverable to James Hay. To be clear, I havent 
interrogated every aspect of or anomalous feature of Elysian Fuels or the application 
process followed in this instance. 
HMRCs findings 
HMRC has found that Elysian Fuels operated as a tax avoidance scheme and that the 
shares were likely worthless. It also found that monies released from pension schemes for 
the purchase of Elysian Fuels shares amounted to unauthorised payments and has pursued 
the individuals who released monies from their pensions in this manner for unauthorised 
payment charges. 
Weve been provided with redacted correspondence from HMRC in which it said: 
Elysian Fuels is an undisclosed mass marketed multi use tax avoidance scheme 
which HMRC considers one of the main purposes of the arrangements was to secure 
a tax advantage. You have entered into a scheme where the tax benefit exceeds the 
potential return from the underlying business plan. You did not pay a cash 
contribution of the purported £1 per share and the loan finance was provided on 
uncommercial terms in addition the loan finance was never in your control being paid 
directly to the special purpose vehicle. The funding of the whole scheme is of a 
circular nature and the funds were never available for the underlying purpose. 
The promoter of the scheme has recently confirmed that no formal valuation of the 
shares was carried out and did not consider any third parties had sufficient 
information or access to documentation to carry independent valuations. There was a 
valuation of the underlying business assets which were owned by another entity but 
neither the Elysian Fuels LLP nor the Special Purpose Vehicle funding company 
owned any tangible assets. This is a complex valuation issue and HMRC initial view 
is the shares had no value when the transaction took place.
In a letter to Ms F HMRC said: 
HMRC also considers that the shares disposed of to the Pension Scheme were 
worthless. As a result of this the payment your client received from the Pension 
Scheme is regarded as an unauthorised payment from the scheme. Unauthorised 
payments from Pension Schemes attract a tax charge of 40% under S208 Finance 
Act (FA) 2004. In addition to this the unauthorised payment may attract a surcharge 
of 15% under S209 FA2004.
HMRC made a without prejudice offer to Ms F to settle the unauthorised payment charge of 
just under £60,000. Its my understanding that Ms F hasnt been in a position to settle this. 
The share price
Theres no evidence that an independent valuation was ever obtained in relation to any of 
the tranches of Elysian Fuels shares. James Hays own internal processes indicate that this 
was a requirement for the purchase of unquoted shares, particularly where the sale was a 
connected one, as in this case. 
The shares were sold to the SIPP at the same price that Ms F purportedly bought them a 
short time beforehand. Some weight was placed on Hillier Hopkins LLPs report commissioned by FCP. This was 
report was clear that: 
In accordance with your instructions, we set out below our opinion on the 
appropriate accounting treatments which would be afforded to entities within the 
Elysian Structure. This opinion is based entirely upon our understanding of 
information and explanations you have given us in connection with the business and 
activities of the entities concerned as you have described them to us and as set out 
in this letter. 
We understand that you have requested this letter in order to obtain a better and 
independent understanding of the financial and reporting effects of the activities of 
the entities and to obtain confirmation of the current rules. Our opinion is specific to 
the circumstances connected with the contracts and transactions as explained to us 
and described below, and does not necessarily have general application. 
This letter is prepared subject to the limitations set out at the end of the letter, and in 
accordance with our invariable practice, we accept no liability whatsoever to any 
person who is not our client in respect of the matters which we set out below, or 
otherwise, to the fullest extent permitted by law. 
And
We base all of our understanding of the transactions and intentions of the of the 
parties on the information provided to us by the partnership consultants or you, as 
their agents. 
We are not expert valuers of Bio Ethanol or other energy projects and we cannot 
comment on the value of the project nor the level of proceeds which might actually be 
achieved by any entity once the plant has been completed. 
This report is not a valuation of the project, the business, the members capital 
of the LLP, nor of the shares in the Company. It may not be used for any purpose 
other than that stated at the beginning of this letter. It is an explanation of the 
accounting treatment that we consider will be most appropriate under current 
accounting standards on the basis of the information and explanations given to us for 
the purpose of this report. [my emphasis]
I dont think it was reasonable to rely on this as an independent valuation of the shares. The 
report was commissioned by the promoters of the investment (was only for their use), was 
based solely on information provided by them or the partnership consultants and was very 
clear that it was not a valuation of the shares.
James Hay also appears to have been satisfied with purchasing the shares on the basis that 
they were being purchased at cost. In accordance with Ms Fs submissions, she didnt put 
any money towards the purchase of the shares, nor did she have the funds to purchase 
them. 
I think that insisting on the provision of an independent valuation prior to permitting the 
purchase of the shares, would have been a reasonable step for James Hay to take under the 
circumstances. Thus, ensuring that the price at which the shares were being purchased was 
fair and that the shares could in fact be independently valued, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. If an independent valuation had been obtained via a reputable and experienced 
party, I think this most likely would have led to the discovery that the value at which the 
shares were being sold, wasnt a true reflection of the actual value of the shares. Whilst I acknowledge that it may have been challenging to obtain an independent valuation 
under the circumstances, I dont think this meant that it was fair and reasonable to accept 
lesser evidence instead. Indeed, if an independent valuation couldnt be obtained then I think 
that James Hay ought to have concluded that it wasnt safe to permit the purchase of these 
shares via its SIPPs, particularly in light of what I think it should have been aware of in 
respect of the financing arrangements, which Ive discussed below. 
The financing arrangements 
James Hay became aware of the financing arrangements available in connection with the 
purchase of Elysian Fuels shares by mid-2013 at the latest. A significant amount of time 
before Ms Fs business was accepted and the subsequent purchase of the shares went 
ahead. 
Its clear that James Hay did have some concerns when it initially became aware of the 
financing arrangements, as it briefly suspended its acceptance of Elysian Fuels shares. It 
subsequently lifted the suspension. 
I havent seen any evidence that Ms F was asked how she purchased the Elysian Fuels 
shares or, otherwise, if she had utilised financing to purchase the shares in her personal 
capacity. I think this would have been a reasonable step for James Hay to take under the 
circumstances and given what it knew or ought reasonably to have known about the 
financing arrangements. 
We know that consumers could utilise financing to fund 86% of the purchase price of the 
shares. It appears that Ms F took advantage of such funding. As I understand it the 
remaining 14% was typically self-funded. In this case, we have seen loan documentation 
signed by Ms F for the purchase of £112,000 Elysian Fuels shares. I think this was for the 
14% not funded by the FCP financing, albeit that it seems to have post-dated the purchase 
of the shares. The amount due for arrangement and interest and legal costs on the loan was 
the same as the amount Ms F didnt receive from the monies released from her pension. 
It seems likely that the FCP financing was in effect illusory. With no funds actually changing 
hands. 
James Hay has suggested that Ms F may not have provided accurate information if queried, 
given that some of the forms she signed appear to have included inaccurate information. I 
think there is a significant difference between signing forms which included details which 
werent accurate and lying when questioned about something. I think its most likely that 
Ms F would have told the truth if questioned about how the shares were purchased. I think 
this is supported by the fact that when asked about her profession, Ms F appears to have 
given accurate information. I note that James Hay didnt query the apparent discrepancy 
between the details on the form submitted to it and the information provided by Ms F over 
the phone in relation to her occupation and this should have been a concern under the 
circumstances. 
So, I think its more likely than not that if James Hay had made appropriate enquiries about 
the purchase of the shares, Ms F would have, to the best of her ability, told the truth. I say 
this because its clear from Ms Fs submissions that she is unclear about some of the details. 
However, I dont think this impacts the conclusion that James Hay ought reasonably to have 
reached. Whether through a conversation or correspondence with Ms F, if James Hay 
established how the purchase came about  including the lending involved  or, instead, if 
Ms F was simply unable to provide an adequate explanation as to how she purchased the 
shares, acting in line with its regulatory obligations and Ms Fs best interests, James Hays conclusion should have been the same. That it should not proceed with the purchase of the 
shares. 
More generally, if James Hay had concerns about pension liberation being a potential factor 
with these investments it should have stopped accepting the investments. It should also 
have reasonably identified that non-disclosure and a degree of misinformation were likely to 
be factors in the event of pension liberation being undertaken. So, simply asking for 
reassurance that pension liberation wasnt taking place wasnt sufficient. Or as seems to 
have been the case in practice, relying on pro-active disclosure of any lending arrangements 
in place. If James Hay chose to continue to accept the investment (which Im not persuaded 
it should have done), one step that could have been available to it, would be to insist on the 
provision of evidence of how the shares were purchased. 
To be clear, I dont think that James Hay had to be certain that pension liberation was taking 
place. I think it becoming aware that there was a significant risk that pension liberation was 
taking place and, in turn, that there was a substantial risk of consumer detriment should 
have been sufficient for it to conclude that it shouldnt fairly and reasonably be accepting this 
investment.  
Also, I think it is important to highlight here that our consideration of whether James Hay 
acted fairly and reasonably in permitting investments via its SIPPs in Elysian Fuels shares is 
not limited to assessing whether James Hay should have been aware of the risk of pension 
liberation and/or breach of HMRC rules.
I think that what James Hay should have discovered in relation to the share price  whether 
that be that the share value was inaccurate or that it could not be independently valued  
and the financing arrangements in place was sufficient for it to conclude that it would not be 
safe or in its customers (and in this case Ms Fs) best interests to proceed with the purchase 
of Elysian Fuels shares. Had it reached this conclusion, I think this would have put a stop to 
the transaction and that Ms Fs pension would have remained intact. 
Anomalous features
Volumes of business 
By the time Ms F applied to sell her Elysian Fuels shares to her SIPP it is my understanding 
that James Hay had accepted hundreds of investments via its SIPPs in Elysian Fuels 
shares. From what we know about this business, this involved individuals investing the vast 
majority of their pensions in unquoted shares in a single entity. This is highly unusual 
business. 
Whilst I accept that this wasnt a high proportion of James Hays overall business, I think this 
should reasonably have been viewed as high volumes of business of this nature. 
James Hay did not and could not provide financial advice and wasnt responsible for 
assessing the suitability of SIPPs or the underlying investments for individuals. It was 
however, responsible for the quality of the business it was accepting. 
Investing the majority of ones pension in unquoted shares, is highly unlikely to be suitable 
for the vast majority of retail consumers. Therefore, given the volumes of introductions, 
James Hay should have been alert to the fact that there was a significant risk that it was 
facilitating unsuitable business  and, in turn, that there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment. 
Circulatory nature of the fundingJames Hay should have identified Elysian Fuels as a very high-risk investment proposition  
and it appears to have done so  making it important for it to take care to meet its obligations 
in undertaking due diligence on the investment itself. I think this reasonably included 
ensuring that the investment operated as claimed. 
In response to our investigators view James Hay said that: 
The Future Capital Project Finance Ltd unaudited directors report and financial 
statements for the period ending 29 April 2013 referenced in the investigators view 
only became available from Companies House signed off by auditors and the Board 
from 29 April 2014 after the events about which Ms F complains. 
Whilst it may be the case that this information wasnt available in the public forum at the 
time, this doesnt mean that that information couldnt have been obtained from the business. 
And I think its more likely than not that a proper interrogation of how the business operated 
would have uncovered that the funds invested werent being utilised as intended in line with 
the promotional material. 
Incomplete internal processes in relation to Ms Fs connected sale of the unquoted shares
I think James Hay correctly identified that permitting investment in unquoted shares carried 
significant risks. And, in connection with this, it put in place internal processes that had to be 
followed based on the paperwork weve seen, in particular the unquoted share 
questionnaire. In the normal course of things James Hay expected: 
Depending on stage of the business: 
Company trading more than 2 years old 
Copies of last 2 years company accounts 
Copy of Financial Adviser recommendation if via a Financial Adviser 
Accountants Letter  see below.
Company trading less than 2 years but not a start up 
Copies of all company accounts produced  if no company account available 
a copy of the Company Business Plan
Copy of Financial Adviser recommendation if via a Financial Adviser 
Accountants Letter  see below. 
Start up Company 
A copy of the Company Business Plan 
Copy of Financial Adviser recommendation or confirmation that the individual 
is a Financial Adviser registered with the FCA (Direct applications are NOT 
accepted.)
Accountants letter  see below.
An independent share valuation. 
A signed declaration from an accountant stating that:
I confirm: 1. That the business is currently trading or has been established solely for the 
purpose of a legitimate commercial trading activity 
2. That the business has to the best of my knowledge never been involved in, or 
has not been established for, the purpose of pension liberation 
3. That to the best of my knowledge there is nothing about the companys business 
activities that could conflict with the shares being held within a SIPP 
4. That to the best of my knowledge none of the company directors is involved in 
any activity that could result in either the SIPP member or James Hay 
Partnership being subject to an unauthorised payment tax charge under the 
Finance Act 2004.
The above highlights that one of the risks James Hay identified in relation to such 
transactions was the risk of pension liberation. 
I think that the above were sensible measures for James Hay to have in place. 
Much of the information that it appears James Hay typically required to proceed with a 
transaction of this type wasnt provided in this case. It isnt clear why the transaction was 
allowed to go ahead under the circumstances. Or, why the failure to provide this information 
wasnt queried.
Ms Fs classification as a sophisticated investor and the evidence provided in support of this 
One of the internal checklists completed by James Hay for direct clients, where a high net 
worth or sophisticated investor form had been completed, asks if evidence had been 
provided to support the information in the form before proceeding. This is ticked on the form 
for Ms F, along with a handwritten note saying this had been approved. 
The evidence provided in support of Ms Fs sophisticated investor form was three £20 loans 
made via a peer-to-peer lending site. I think an objective assessment of this should have led 
to the conclusion that this was insufficient at best. And, at worst, given the timing of the 
loans, an attempt to get Ms Fs application to meet the minimum criteria. In either event this 
should have led to further interrogation/investigation on this point. 
Common Directorships
Companies House entries show the same directors involved in not only FCP, Elysian Fuels 
Ltd and the numerous Elysian Fuels partnerships but also Vireol and Ebury Engineering. 
Most notably Mr L was a director of every entity involved. Mr L had not long before been 
questioned by a government select committee in connection with running tax avoidance 
schemes for a report called tax avoidance: tackling marketed avoidance schemes. At that 
point Mr L had run a very significant number of investment schemes many of which had 
been investigated by HMRC. 
The involvement of the same individuals in connected businesses involved in a joint venture 
isnt necessarily a sign of wrongdoing but, again, I think it should have led James Hay to 
understand the importance of properly understanding how the investment would operate. 
Particularly in light of the individuals involved in this instance. 
TWM Pension Trust/Dalriada Trustees Limited (Dalriada)Dalriada was appointed by the Pensions Regulator as independent trustee of the TWM 
Pension Trust on 13 June 2013. Dalriada was appointed because the Pensions Regulator 
was concerned that the Scheme was being used for pension liberation. 
The vast majority of the Schemes funds, approximately £2,700,000, were paid to Castle 
Trust, a company registered in Gibraltar. Dalriada has said that its understanding is that 
these funds were then invested in Elysian Fuels No 27 PLC.  
The announcement of the appointment of Dalriada was around nine months before Ms Fs 
investment in Elysian Fuels. This isnt something that James Hay would necessarily have 
become aware of as matter of course, however, it is something that may have come to its 
attention if it had regularly been reviewing whether there was any adverse information in the 
public domain about Elysian Fuels. Which is one of a number of actions that it could 
reasonably have undertaken to ensure that it was meeting its regulatory obligations. 
As previously mentioned, in this decision Ive focused on the concerns that I think James 
Hay should have had and the conclusions it should have reached in relation to the share 
price and financing arrangements in place. Ive briefly set out the above anomalous features 
to highlight some of the other concerning features with this investment/the processes 
followed and, in turn, the importance of James Hay undertaking sufficient due diligence in 
respect of the Elysian Fuels shares. 
What should James Hay have concluded, had it undertaken sufficient due diligence?
James Hay may consider that carrying out the kind of assessment that would be required to 
establish and interrogate such factors as Ive discussed and carry out appropriate due 
diligence, imposes on to it requirements over and above its responsibilities as a SIPP 
provider. But Im satisfied these are the kind of things James Hay needed to do when 
accepting Ms Fs proposed investment to meet its regulatory obligations and was in line with 
good practice at the time under the circumstances. And, I dont think that this amounts to a 
conclusion that James Hay should have assessed the suitability of the Elysian Fuels 
investment for Ms Fs SIPP in light of her individual circumstances.
James Hay does appear to have understood the importance of due diligence and I accept 
that James Hay, as Ive mentioned, did do some due diligence in relation to Elysian Fuels. 
But that due diligence didnt adequately address the points Ive set out above. So, based on 
the evidence Ive seen to date, Im satisfied that James Hay didnt carry out sufficient due 
diligence to satisfy its reasonable responsibilities as a SIPP provider.
James Hay had also put in place processes for the purchase of unquoted shares, 
unfortunately these appear not to have been followed in this instance. 
To be clear, I reiterate, Im not making a finding that James Hay should have assessed the 
suitability of the Elysian Fuels investment for Ms Fs SIPP. I accept James Hay had no 
obligation to  nor was it permitted to  give advice to Ms F, or to ensure otherwise the 
suitability of an investment for her.
At the point the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares was arranged James Hay would have 
been aware that Ms F was investing the vast majority of her pension fund with it in an 
unregulated, esoteric and high-risk investment which might be difficult to sell. I acknowledge 
that James Hay wouldnt be aware whether that was the entirety of Ms Fs pension savings 
because she may have had other benefits elsewhere (although I note that within the 
paperwork Ms F completed at point of sale, she confirmed that the approximate percentage 
of her total pension savings that the investment would represent was 97%). But it was an 
indicator of the kind of risk to which Ms F was being exposed. These were red flags, so to speak, which should have caused James Hay significant concern as to whether or not to 
allow Ms F to purchase the investment via her SIPP.
Im satisfied James Hay could have identified the concerns Ive mentioned, and ought to 
have drawn the conclusions Ive set out, based on what was known and could have been 
discovered at the time. 
James Hay ought to have identified significant concerns in relation to the investment, and 
this ought to have led it to conclude it shouldnt accept the Elysian Fuels investment. It ought 
to have realised there was a high risk of detriment to Ms F.
In conclusion
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that 
James Hay acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Ms F fairly by permitting the 
purchase of the shares in Elysian Fuels. James Hay didnt meet its regulatory obligations or 
the standards of good practice at the time, and it allowed Ms Fs pension fund to be put at 
significant risk as a result.
Did James Hay act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Ms Fs instructions?
 
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Having identified some of the significant concerns in relation to the 
investment that Ive detailed above, its my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do 
would have been for James Hay to refuse to permit the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares 
via Ms Fs SIPP. On balance, I think this most likely would have put a stop to the transaction.
I think James Hay refusing to permit the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares would have 
likely meant that Ms F would have acted very differently. And I dont believe it would be fair 
or reasonable to assume that another SIPP operator would have allowed the purchase of the 
shares, had James Hay not permitted it. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
say that James Hay shouldnt compensate Ms F for her loss on the basis of speculation that 
another SIPP operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found James Hay did. I 
think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore would not have allowed the 
investment/purchase of the shares.
Its possible that it could be argued that other parties have contributed to Ms Fs losses and 
so its not fair to hold James Hay fully responsible. However, the complaint against James 
Hay is the complaint Im considering here. And for the reasons Ive set out earlier in this 
decision, I consider that James Hay has failed to comply with its own distinct regulatory 
obligations under the Principles. In my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case to hold James Hay accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant 
regulatory obligations and to treat Ms F fairly. 
Ive concluded Ms F wouldnt have purchased the shares via her SIPP but for James Hays 
failure to carry out sufficient due diligence. So, in these circumstances, Im satisfied its fair to 
hold it responsible for the losses suffered by Ms F as a result of its failings in so far as they 
stem from the purchase of the shares by the SIPP. Im not asking James Hay to account for 
losses that go beyond the consequences of its failings.
Im satisfied that James Hay should have put a stop to the transaction and that the purchase 
of the shares via Ms Fs SIPP wouldnt have gone ahead if it had treated Ms F fairly and 
reasonably. Ive carefully considered causation, contributory negligence, and apportionment of damages. 
And in the circumstances here, Im still satisfied its fair for James Hay to compensate Ms F 
for the full measure of her losses that stem from the purchase of the shares via her SIPP. In 
addition to the financial losses Ms F has suffered I think the loss of her pension, which had 
been of a significant value, as well as being pursued for an unauthorised payment charge 
which she says she cant pay, will have caused her a very significant amount of worry and 
distress and I think that James Hay should compensate her for this as well. 
Having reached these conclusions, Ive gone on to consider the impact of what Ive found to 
be James Hays failings, taking into account the sequence of events set out below. 
The sequence of events
Based on what weve been told, Ms F was initially introduced to the idea of investing in 
Elysian Fuels by an unregulated individual, Mr B, who advised her to transfer her pensions 
to a SIPP and invest in Elysian Fuels. Ms F has told us that Mr B made all of the 
arrangements for her. 
Theres no indication that James Hay was aware of Mr Bs involvement or of the plan of 
action that had been put in motion. 
Ms F established a SIPP and transferred her existing pensions into it. She then initially 
purchased the shares in her personal capacity and then subsequently purchased them via 
her SIPP.
The impact of James Hays failings
Overall, Im satisfied for the reasons set out above that James Hay acting fairly and 
reasonably and in line with its obligations and good practice shouldnt have permitted the 
purchase of Elysian Fuels shares by Ms Fs SIPP in this instance. 
I think that James Hay is responsible for the impact of the purchase of the shares and needs 
to put right the losses that Ms F has suffered as a result. I dont think that James Hay had 
any reason to decline Ms Fs application for a SIPP or the transfer of funds from her then 
existing pension schemes. And, I dont think that James Hay should fairly and reasonably be 
held responsible for the events that pre-dated its purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares in this 
instance. 
I accept that, for example, Mr Bs actions may have been predicated on the sale of shares to 
a SIPP being possible  but, I dont think that James Hay guaranteed to purchase the shares 
in advance in this case. And, in any event, it would have been open to James Hay to put a 
stop to the transaction at any point up until the purchase of the shares went ahead. 
Because the release of the funds from Ms Fs pension has been treated as an unauthorised 
payment, she is being pursued by HMRC for an unauthorised payment charge on the 
£112,000. The release of the funds was only made possible as a result of the purchase of 
the shares, which I dont think should have gone ahead. So, I think James Hay should 
compensate Ms F for this. Had these funds been withdrawn from the pension as an income, 
Ms F would have had to have paid income tax at her marginal rate (which is assumed to be 
basic rate) on 75% of it. James Hay should pay any amount in excess of what Ive found she 
would likely otherwise have paid which Ms F pays to HMRC. To be clear, this includes any 
interest on the unauthorised payment charge and surcharge which Ms F is required to pay. 
I understand that Ms F thinks that we should direct James Hay to pay to her the 
unauthorised payment charge and any other applicable fees/interest and that it should then be for her to settle matters with HMRC. I can appreciate that Ms F wants to draw a line 
under this and doesnt want to be reliant on an undertaking from James Hay. However, Im 
still not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to require James Hay to compensate 
Ms F for monies that she hasnt yet paid to HMRC and may not be required to pay 
depending on any negotiations she enters into with HMRC. Im satisfied that an undertaking 
remains appropriate in the circumstances. 
James Hay paid the £112,000 from Ms Fs SIPP to Wannops LLP, a UK based regulated law 
firm. Ms F says that she only received a portion (£27,307.75) of these funds and has 
provided evidence of receipt of those funds. If James Hay had not permitted the purchase of 
the Elysian Fuels shares, those funds would have remained in Ms Fs pension. So, I think 
that this loss is as a result of James Hays failures, but I still need to consider if it would be 
fair and reasonable for it to compensate Ms F for this. 
The relevant form asked for the vendors bank details for payment of the monies for the 
shares. In this case, the vendor was Ms F not Wannops LLP. Whilst the involvement of a 
solicitor may not be particularly unusual in such transactions in principle. I think James Hay 
should have checked why the funds were being paid to a party other than the vendor, Ms F. 
The importance of it making such checks was enhanced by what I think James Hay should 
have understood about the Elysian Fuels investment and Ms Fs transaction in particular by 
this stage, and the concerns it ought to have had, which Ive set out in some detail earlier in 
this decision. 
James Hay has said that we should ask Ms F for more information about what happened in 
relation to the payment to Wannops LLP. Ms F has been clear in her submissions that she 
didnt have a good understanding of what happened at the time, that everything was sorted 
by Mr B and that it was not until her representative told her that shed lost a significant 
portion of her pension, that she understood what had happened in relation to the monies 
released from her pension. And, in any event, Im satisfied that I have sufficient information 
to fairly and reasonably decide this aspect of Ms Fs complaint. So, Im not persuaded that 
asking additional questions at this stage is necessary or, indeed, would prove helpful. 
Since I issued my provisional decision, weve received some further information from 
Wannops LLP, it has confirmed that the only amount paid to Ms F by it was £27,307.75. 
Separately, it also confirmed: 
Wannops received £112,000 from a James Hay Santander bank account on 30 April 
2014. Wannops acted for its client Exceptional Management Limited as lender
On 30 April 2014, Wannops sent to Ms F £27,307.75. The records do not record the 
bank account details to which the funds were transferred. The balance less Wannops 
fees of £1,290 of £83,402.25 was sent on the same date to Exceptional Management 
Limited.
And 
"Wannops did not act for any of [James Hays] clients named in [James Hays] 
letter nor, of course, for the avoidance of doubt, did it act for James Hay. Wannops 
was instructed in relation to the drafting of loan agreements for the lender 
Exceptional Management Limited. Wannops received funds from a Santander 
account from James Hay on the instructions of the borrowers to facilitate the 
repayment of the loans"
This information was shared with the parties to the complaint, and they were given the 
opportunity to respond to this. James Hay, amongst other things, said: 
The monies which werent paid to Ms F were used to repay the loan she had entered 
into to fund the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares in her personal capacity. The 
cause of this loss therefore was said loan agreement entered into before James 
Hays involvement. And, the monies were used in any event for the benefit of Ms F, 
to award capital and investment losses would overcompensate her. 
If James Hay had refused to make the payment Ms F would have been in breach of 
her obligations under the loan agreement (of which it was unaware) and it would 
have been in breach of a formal written instruction. 
The correct analysis of the situation is that the monies wouldnt had been transferred 
to Wannops LLP but for the loan agreement. The connection between the loan and 
transfer to Wannops LLP is key as this is what lead to Ms F giving an amount from 
her pension. This is the causally relevant event and not James Hay payment to 
Wannops LLP.
The agreement is dated around a month after Ms F purchased the Elysian Fuels shares in 
her personal capacity. I do however accept that that is the stated purpose of the loan. Under 
the circumstances it seems unlikely that monies were actually paid to Ms F under the loan 
agreement, which she then used to purchase the shares. Under the arrangement Ms F 
borrowed £18,592 and had to pay £83,402.25 in interest and arrangement costs alone. 
These terms are quite extraordinary. 
I set out the above simply to highlight the unusual nature and timing of the loan, I accept that 
James Hay is in no way responsible for the terms of the loan. 
James Hay may seek to argue that if it hadnt released the funds to Wannops LLP, this could 
have resulted in Ms F being pursued for £84,692.25 under the loan agreement she signed. I 
think this is unlikely taking everything into account. For example, Ms F, based on what weve 
been told, has never paid back the capital borrowed and hasnt been pursued for this. I also 
think it may have proven difficult for anyone to seek to enforce the loan agreement under the 
circumstances. 
Ms F has provided bank statements showing the amount she received from Wannops LLP 
and this aligns with what weve now been told by Wannops LLP, James Hay may wish to 
see some additional evidence in relation to this. If it does, it should make clear what 
evidence it requires, and I would expect Ms F to take reasonable steps to comply with any 
such request. 
James Hay has questioned proximity or link between what Ive found to be its failings in this 
instance and the losses for which Ive found it fair and reasonable for James Hay to 
compensate Ms F for. Ive identified a number of what I consider to be failings on James 
Hays part in relation to the transaction about which Ms F complains. Amongst other things, 
these include: 
James Hays decision to permit the purchase of Elysian Fuels shares via Ms Fs 
SIPP. 
Its failure to ask additional questions about Ms Fs purchase of the Elysian Fuels 
shares, given what it knew  or ought to have known  about the financing 
arrangements associated with this scheme.
Its failure to follow its own internal procedures at the point of purchase of these 
unquoted shares.Its failure to identify and interrogate inconsistencies in the information provided to it at 
point of sale, such as Ms Fs profession and the evidence provided in support of the 
sophisticated investor form. 
Its failure to identify and investigate why the monies for the purchase of the shares 
were not being paid to Ms F and instead to an apparently unconnected third party. 
Ultimately, I think this loss was suffered as a result of James Hays failings and that it 
wouldnt have been incurred but for those failings and, additionally, that it is fair and 
reasonable for James Hay to compensate Ms F for these losses in the particular 
circumstances of this case. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold 
James Hay accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory obligations 
and to treat Ms F fairly. 
The starting point, therefore, is that it would be fair to require James Hay to pay Ms F 
compensation for the loss shes suffered as a result of James Hays failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask James Hay to compensate Ms F for 
her losses which I consider to be resultant from the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares by 
her SIPP. And Im satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for James Hay to 
compensate Ms F to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered that I consider to 
stem from its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Mr B and FCP, in advising Ms F to enter into a SIPP, 
arranging the financing and promoting the investment, are responsible for initiating the 
course of action that led to Ms Fs loss. And, that those and other parties have contributed to 
the subsequent loss of £84,692.25 of the funds released from Ms Fs SIPP. However, its 
also the case that if James Hay had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a 
SIPP operator, the purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares via Ms Fs SIPP wouldnt have 
gone ahead, and the loss she suffered as a result could have been avoided.
If it wishes, James Hay can have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action 
Ms F has against any of the other parties involved in this transaction in respect of the events 
this complaint concerns before compensation is paid. And the compensation can be made 
contingent upon Ms Fs acceptance of this term. This assignment would need to be limited to 
the amount by which James Hay compensates Ms F. James Hay would need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the assignment.
I want to make it clear that Ive carefully taken everything James Hay has said into 
consideration. And Im of the view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
James Hay to compensate Ms F to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due 
to James Hays failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out 
above, Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce 
the compensation amount that James Hay is liable to pay to Ms F.    
And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say James 
Hay should compensate Ms F for the loss shes suffered as a result of it allowing the 
purchase of the Elysian Fuels shares. I dont think it would be fair to say in the 
circumstances that Ms F should suffer the loss because she ultimately instructed the 
purchase of the shares and the payment of the funds to Wannops LLP.Putting things right
I consider that James Hay failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations by permitting 
the purchase of Elysian Fuels shares by Ms Fs SIPP. My aim in awarding fair compensation 
is to put Ms F back into the position she would likely have been in had it not been for James 
Hays failings. Had James Hay acted appropriately, I think its most likely that Ms F wouldnt 
have invested her SIPP in the manner she did.
I take the view that Ms F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances.
In light of the above, James Hay should:
Calculate the notional transfer value of Ms Fs SIPP. Allowing for the £27,307.75, 
which Ms F received from her SIPP.
Obtain the actual transfer value of Ms Fs SIPP, including any outstanding c h a r g e s .  
Pay a commercial value to buy any illiquid investments (or treat them 
as having a zero value).
Pay an amount into Ms Fs SIPP so as to increase the transfer value to equal 
the notional value established. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief and the effect of charges. 
If the SIPP needs to be kept open only because of the illiquid investment/s and is 
used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be 
waived until the SIPP can be closed.
If Ms F has paid any fees or charges from funds outside of her pension 
arrangements, James Hay should also refund these to Ms F. Interest at a rate of 8% 
simple per year from date of payment to date of refund should be added to this. 
Undertake to pay any amount Ms F has to pay to HMRC in relation to the £112,000 
released from her pension, which is in excess of the basic rate of tax she would have 
incurred on 75% of £27,307.75 had the funds been withdrawn as a pension income 
in retirement. 
Pay to Ms F £1,500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused. 
Provide an indemnity not to pursue Ms F in relation to the scheme sanction 
charge its had to pay. James Hay has confirmed that it will not pursue her for 
this however its clear from her submissions that this remains a significant 
concern for her. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for James Hay to 
set this out formally. 
Ive set out how James  Hay should  go about  calculating  compensation  in more  detail  
below.  
Treatment  of the illiquid  assets  held within  the SIPPI think it would be best if any illiquid assets held could be removed from the SIPP. Ms F 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if she wishes. That would then allow her to stop 
paying the fees for the SIPP. The valuation of the illiquid investment may prove difficult, as 
there is no market for it. For calculating compensation, James Hay should establish an 
amount its willing to accept for the investment as a commercial value. It should then pay the 
sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the investment.
If James Hay is able to purchase the illiquid investment, then the price paid to purchase the 
holdings will be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid into 
the SIPP to secure the holding).
If James Hay is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying Ms F's illiquid investment/s, it 
should give the holding/s a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. In this 
instance James Hay may ask Ms F to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding/s. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Ms F may receive from the 
investment and any eventual sums she would be able to access from the SIPP. James Hay 
will have to meet the cost of drawing up any such undertaking. 
Calculate the loss Ms F has suffered as a result of making the investment
James Hay should arrive at a notional valuation by assuming the monies would have 
enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index from 
the date the Elysian Fuels shares were purchased by the SIPP and up until the date of 
calculation. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved 
over the period in question if Ms Fs pension had remained intact and no funds had been 
released. 
Any contributions or withdrawals Ms F has made will need to be taken into account. 
Any withdrawal out of the SIPP should be deducted at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. We know that Ms F 
received £27,307.75 from her pension, this should be treated as a notional withdrawal as at 
the date this payment was made for the purposes of this calculation. The same applies for 
any contributions made, these should be added to the notional calculation from the date they 
were actually paid, so any growth they would have enjoyed is allowed for. 
The notional value of Ms Fs pension plan less the current value of the SIPP (as at date of 
calculation) is Ms Fs loss in respect of her pension. 
Pay an amount into Ms Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated above. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.If either party disagrees with the presumed income tax rate, theyll need to let us know as 
soon as possible and, if agreement cant be reached at this stage, certainly before a final 
decision is issued after which the redress cant be amended. 
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and because of this it cant be closed 
after compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Ms F to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. So, if the SIPP needs to be kept open only 
because of the illiquid investment/s and is used only or substantially to hold that asset, then 
any future SIPP fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.
Undertaking to pay the monies owed to HMRC
Ive given careful consideration to what Ms F has said about this, I understand that she 
would like to draw a line under this situation and that payment should be made to her without 
delay. Under the circumstances, I remain of the view that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable. 
James Hay must undertake to pay any amount Ms F has to pay to HMRC in relation to the 
£112,000 released from her pension, which is in excess of the basic rate of tax she would 
have incurred on 75% of £27,307.75 had the funds been withdrawn as a pension income in 
retirement. To be clear, this includes any interest Ms F has to pay. 
Im directing James Hay to only reduce the amount it pays of the settlement with HMRC by 
the amount Ms F would have incurred on 75% of £27,307.75 had the funds been withdrawn 
as a pension income in retirement because the rest is otherwise taken into account by way 
of how James Hay will need to pay redress as set out above. And, Ms F shouldnt have to 
have this tax taken into account twice. 
The undertaking should allow for payment of these funds direct to Ms F if she settles with 
HMRC, subject to evidence of this being provided. I understand that Ms F hasnt been able 
to do this so far but upon receipt of compensation as set out above, this may become a 
possibility. 
The undertaking should also allow for payment to be made payable to HMRC, if thats the 
preferred course of action of the parties to the complaint. James Hay may also require, 
within the undertaking, that Ms F take reasonable steps to negotiate any settlement such as 
providing HMRC with evidence of the amount she actually received from her pension and/or 
how the arrangement came about. These steps must: 
Be set out in advance.
Be clear and proportionate.
Not result in a significant protraction in reaching a settlement.
James Hay will have to meet the cost of drawing up this undertaking. I understand Ms F 
would like to draw a line under this situation and does not want to have any further dealings 
with James Hay. However, as above, I remain of the view that what Ive set out above is fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Distress & inconvenience
I think the loss of the pension provision that is the subject of this complaint caused Ms F 
significant distress, and this is clear from her submissions to this service, and James Hay should pay her £1,500 to compensate her for this. Not only did Ms F lose her pension 
provision, but she was also found to owe an HMRC bill of around £60,000 which she says 
she has had no means of paying. 
The scheme sanction charge
Provide an indemnity not to pursue Ms F in relation to the scheme sanction charge its had to 
pay. James Hay has confirmed that it will not pursue her for this, and I dont doubt its 
submissions to this effect however its clear from Ms Fs submissions that this remains a 
significant concern for her. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for James Hay to set 
this out formally.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint against James Hay 
Administration Company Ltd. And I require James Hay Administration Company Ltd to pay 
Ms F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
James Hay Administration Company Ltd pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that James Hay Administration 
Company Ltd should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that 
amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that James Hay Administration Company Ltd pays Ms F 
the balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. James Hay Administration 
Company Ltd doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Ms F could accept a 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance and Ms F may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman