DRN-4025281
The complaint
Miss R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as 
Very, irresponsibly granted her a catalogue shopping account she says she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In May 2014 Miss R entered into an agreement with Shop Direct to have access to credit by 
way of a Very catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of £750. The credit 
limit was increased eight times between February 2015 and December 2021.  
Miss R stopped making payments to her account in November 2021. By June 2022 she had 
gone over the maximum credit limit of £5,000 that had been granted to her in December 
2021. She was issued with a default notice in September 2022 and the account was passed 
on to a third party in October 2022. 
Miss R says that Shop Direct didnt complete adequate affordability checks and the opening 
credit limit, followed by the subsequent credit limit increases, were too high. 
Shop Direct agreed that it shouldnt have given Miss R a further credit limit increase in 
August 2020 from £3,200 to £3,700. So it made an offer to settle her complaint for all interest 
and fees she was charged when her level of credit usage went above £3,200. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought Shop Directs offer was fair. 
Miss R wasnt happy with this outcome and requested that her complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing the credit for Miss R, Shop Direct says it carried out a check using a 
credit reference agency, in addition to the information Miss R provided in her application. 
Ive seen from the results of that check that Miss Rs recent credit history didnt raise any 
concerns. It had been almost two years since Miss R had had arrears on any of her 
existing credit and there were no adverse records on her credit file. 
It is of course possible that Shop Directs checks at the time of the account opening 
werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have been. So I also need to consider the 
information that Shop Direct would likely have seen at the time. 
Having done so, I dont think Shop Direct has acted unfairly in making an offer to 
compensate Miss R based for all interest and charges added to her account from when 
her credit limit was increased from £3,200 to £3,700 in August 2020. I say this having 
already seen that Miss R stopped making payments to her account in December 2021 
when the credit limit had been increased to £5,000 and went into a period of sustained 
arrears from January 2022 onwards. 
Miss R hasnt given us details of her financial situation at the relevant time  for example 
by providing us with bank statements. So I cant say that  proportionate checks would 
have likely revealed any other concerns about affordability. I therefore dont think 
Shop Direct has acted unfairly in making its offer to compensate Miss R for the usage of 
credit on her account over a balance level of £3,200. But having seen that her financial 
position appeared to be notably deteriorating from the end of 2021, the offer does not 
appear to be unreasonable.
It follows that I think Shop Directs offer is fair. Shop Direct is aware of how we expect 
businesses to compensate consumers in these cases. I have seen Shop Directs figures for 
the sum due to be refunded to Miss R by way of a credit to her account. This includes a 
refund of standard interest, deferred interest and administration charges. No further interest 
is payable as Miss Rs account is still in arrears. My understanding is that the redress 
amount has already been credited to Miss Rs account. If thats not right then Shop Direct 
must do this without any further delay. 
If Miss R has any specific concerns about Shop Directs calculation of redress, or requires a 
breakdown calculation of its offer, she should raise this with Shop Direct. 
I therefore dont make any award as I dont think Miss R has been caused any additional 
loss or material distress or inconvenience as a result of Shop Directs actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman