DRN-3077756
The complaint
Ms L and Mr M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt advise them on time of the interest 
rates that would be available when they next took out a mortgage product and as a result, 
they lost out on a better fixed rate than they accepted. Ms L and Mr M would like to be 
compensated for the extra interest they will pay during the fixed rate period.
What happened
Ms L and Mr M had a mortgage with HSBC and a fixed rate product that ended on 30 
November 2020. On 1 September 2020 HSBC sent a letter to Ms L and Mr M advising them 
that term of the fixed rate product was ending on 30 November and inviting them to choose a 
new rate deal. The letter enclosed a list of the rates then available saying that These are 
correct as of 1 September -but they can change at any time . The letter indicated that the 
borrower could switch to a new rate up to 90 days before their current deal ends.
This letter came in the post to Ms L and Mr M although Ms L was registered for online 
banking and that was her preferred means of communication. Ms L and Mr M received the 
letter on 5 September and Ms L logged onto her account to apply for one of the advertised 
deals, but it was no longer available. Ms L and Mr M say that if they had been told on 1 
September online that they could have applied and got the 1.44% deal that was then 
available and not the 1.79% deal they accepted which meant that they will pay £26-£30 per 
month extra over the two year period of the fixed rate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as her view was that 
HSBC could communicate by letter rather than online as it had a policy to communicate this 
information by that means. Ms L and Mr M disagreed and asked for a review and want 
HSBC to offer them the rate that was available on 1 September.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L and Mr M say that they were aware of the impending end of their fixed rate and around 
August 2020 were checking HSBCs interest rates and waiting to hear from HSBC as to 
when they could apply for a new fixed rate. Ms L had an online banking facility and a 
preference for online communication and could react quickly when she became aware when 
they could apply.
HSBC provided Ms L and Mr M with a mortgage and a mortgage product. On 1 September it 
sent a letter providing Ms L and Mr M with some information about the mortgage product. 
This is described by HSBC as a courtesy letter advising them that the mortgage was about  
to end on 30 November, that if they wished they could now apply for a new mortgage 
product and provided a list of mortgage products then available but a warning that they 
mightnt be available at time of application..
It seems to me that the purpose of this letter was to act as a reminder and an invitation. It 
was a reminder of what some customers forget - the date of the ending of the current 
mortgage product - and an invitation to look at another mortgage product within the HSBC 
range and that customers could now apply for those mortgage products. But a courtesy letter 
is merely such and its significance has to be put in that context. The letter is not a regulatory 
requirement nor a requirement of the existing mortgage product. HSBC wasnt acting as Ms 
L and Mr Ms mortgage advisers. It was merely providing them with information. It didnt 
commit formally as part of any contract or agreement that it would provide information to Ms 
L and Mr M on any particular date but provided this information in good time for Ms L and Mr 
M to organise a new mortgage product in advance of 30 November 2020.
I appreciate that Ms L and Mr M are on a less favourable interest rate than was available on 
1 September because that was removed by the time they were able to look at it.  Equally, 
they might have benefited had the interest rate gone down between the 1 and 5 September. 
But either way, HSBC made no commitment to provide information to them on a particular 
date and so I cant find it at fault for the consequences of providing information on the 5th 
rather than 1 September. 
HSBC says that its policy was to provide this courtesy letter by ordinary mail rather than 
online despite Ms Ls preferences because of negative customer feedback. I assume some 
customers may not have read this information online and from my experience Ive come 
upon other customers who missed the opportunity to transfer their mortgage product by not 
reading an online message and so I can understand why they would do it this way. But Ms L 
and Mr M did receive it so did not miss out on the information even if it wasnt provided 
online. They may not have got it on the day that in the circumstances was to their best 
advantage but as I say HSBC was under no obligation and assumed no legal responsibilities 
to provide it on a particular day. For the above reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint.     
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman