DRN-1593981
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down a claim made on his private 
health insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has the benefit of a private health insurance policy which he took out with AXA in 2018. 
He says, prior to then, hed had the benefit of other health insurance policies, through his 
employer. 
In April 2019, Mr B contacted AXA to make a claim on the policy. He wanted AXA to cover 
the costs of him attending a consultation with an orthopaedic consultant as he said hed 
been experiencing pain in both of his knees.
AXA ultimately declined to cover the costs of that consultation on the basis that Mr B had 
osteoarthritis in both knees  which had been diagnosed in 2001. It said the policy doesnt 
cover pre-existing conditions for the first two years of the policy, and even then, pre-existing 
conditions are only covered if theres been a consecutive trouble-free period from the pre-
existing condition since taking out the policy.
Mr B didnt think AXA had fairly declined his claim; he said his knee conditions didnt amount 
to a pre-existing medical condition as defined by the policy. So, unhappy, he complained to 
our Service.
In the interim, Mr B says, as per the advice he received from the orthopaedic consultant he 
underwent surgery to replace his right knee at the end of May 2019 which he says cost him 
in excess of £13,000. He is currently waiting the resolution of this complaint before 
undergoing a left knee replacement. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. He found that AXA hadnt acted fairly and 
reasonably when turning down Mr Bs claim. Based on the medical evidence, and what Mr B 
had told us, he didnt think AXA had fairly concluded that his knee conditions amounted to a 
pre-existing medical condition. 
He recommended that AXA reconsider the claim in light of the remaining terms of the policy 
and later confirmed that if, having done so, AXA  concluded that Mr Bs claim should be 
covered it should pay for the orthopaedic consultants fees including the cost of knee 
replacement together with simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date on which 
Mr B paid each invoice, to the date on which hes reimbursed. 
AXA disagreed with our investigators view and raised several points in reply. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold it.
Before I explain why, I acknowledge that AXA has raised several points which Ive 
considered in full. But Ive limited my decision to what I consider to be most relevant in this 
complaint and by doing so I mean no disrespect by not commenting on each point raised.
AXA has an obligation to handle claims made on an insurance policy fairly and promptly. 
And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy says AXA:
will provide cover for treatment of medical conditions that arise after you join. However, in 
the first two years of cover there is no cover for the treatment of pre-existing conditions
A pre-existing condition is defined under the policy as:
Any disease, illness or injury which:
You have received medication, advice or treatment; or 
You have experienced symptoms;
Whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three years before the start of 
your cover.
Treatment is defined as: surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are 
needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
The policy doesnt contain definitions for medication, advice or symptoms.
Looking at the information Mr Bs GP provided, Im satisfied that AXA has fairly concluded 
that Mr B was diagnosed with osteoarthritis in both knees in 2001. Mr B didnt undergo any 
treatment for that condition then (the surgery he had was to trim cartilage in one knee). But 
his GP says in a letter to AXA dated 30 May 2019 (the GP letter) that hed visited a knee 
clinic at the time and: it was noted that during the arthroscopy he did have extensive 
degenerative changes. X-rays supported a degree of tri-compartmental arthritis. His left knee 
was significantly worse than his right. He had consulted [Mr X] to see whether or not he 
warranted a knee replacement at this time but decided as his symptoms were quite mild 
following his arthroscopy that he would not pursue this.
I also accept that Mr B contacted AXA about the pain he was experiencing in both knees 
within the first two years of taking out the policy. So, under the policy, if the osteoarthritis in 
his knees amounted to a pre-existing condition, treatment for that condition wouldnt have 
been covered at that time.
So, the crux of the issue I have to decide is whether AXA fairly and reasonably concluded 
that the osteoarthritis that had been diagnosed in Mr Bs knees in 2001 amounted to a pre-
existing medical condition under the policy. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont think it did:
Mr Bs GP explains in the GP letter that theyd looked at Mr Bs medical history and 
hed not attended any consultation regarding arthritis since 2001. Nor had he consulted his G.P, Physiotherapist or another Orthopaedic Consultant in relation to 
knee pain since 2001. So, for the three years immediately prior to taking out the 
policy, the medical evidence doesnt support that Mr B had received any advice or 
treatment regarding the osteoarthritis in his knees, or knee pain generally.
Im not persuaded that the evidence supports that Mr B had taken any medication 
(prescription or otherwise) for knee pain within the three years immediately preceding 
taking out the policy.  Medication isnt defined under the policy. However, AXA says 
medication doesnt need to be prescribed, it also covers taking over the counter-
medication to help manage a condition. The medical information form completed by 
Mr Bs GP (the medical information form), reflects that Mr B was managing his 
condition conservatively since 2001 and taking analgesia (painkillers). But the GP 
doesnt say when, or how, frequently Mr B had taken painkillers. 
Further, Mr B has consistently said that his GP wasnt right to suggest that hed been 
suffering with his knees since 2001 in the medical information form, and that he 
hadnt seen anyone about his knees since 2001. He also says he hadnt taken any 
medication for that condition. Im persuaded by what Mr B says on this issue, and its 
somewhat supported by the GP letter which confirms that Mr B hadnt consulted 
anyone about knee pain since 2001. So, its not clear how Mr Bs GP became aware 
that hed been taking painkillers - or that hed been managing his condition 
conservatively since 2001 as hed previously set out in the medical information form. 
And AXA didnt make any further enquiries of the GP after receiving the GP letter. 
Im not satisfied that AXA has fairly concluded that Mr B experienced symptoms of 
osteoarthritis in his knees within the three years prior to taking out the policy. 
symptoms arent defined under the policy, but Im persuaded that a reasonable 
person would interpret this to mean that there were signs that Mr Bs osteoarthritis 
was affecting him in some way during that three-year period. The NHS website 
describes common symptoms as joint pain, stiffness, swelling around the joints. Im 
not persuaded that the totality of the evidence supports that Mr B was experiencing 
any such symptoms during the relevant period.
Ive listened to the recording of a call Mr B had with AXAs representatives in mid-
April 2019. Hes asked how long he has had the pain. He replies: a couple of 
months getting worse. Hes also asked when he first went to his GP about his 
knee pain. He replies: Ive had intermittent pain for many years and that he hadnt 
been to his GP about seeing an orthopaedic consultant before contacting AXA 
because Mr B felt it was fairly obvious that its arthritic knees. In a call which took 
place on 11 May 2019 he also says, unprompted, he does get twinges in his knee but 
I get them everywhere, Im old.   I understand why AXA says these statements 
support Mr B having symptoms of osteoarthritis before taking out the policy. But Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence that he experienced knee pain (or other 
symptoms relating to osteoarthritis in his knees) within the three years immediately 
before taking out the policy. Or that the twinges Mr B says he occasionally gets in his 
knees are not the same as the other twinges he feels in different parts of his body 
from time to time due to his age. 
Ive also taken into account that the medical information form reflects that hed been 
managing conservatively with pain but over the six months before hed claimed it had 
worsened - and AXAs point that this suggests the pain was there previously but has 
worsened more recently. As Mr B hadnt been seen anyone for over 17 years about 
knee pain that he had in 2001, Ive already explained why this might not be an 
accurate reflection of what happened. Particularly given the GP letter which subsequently describes Mr Bs symptoms in 2001 as being isolated and that they 
improved following the arthroscopy. Theres also a question in the medical 
information form asking Mr Bs GP how long has the patient been aware that 
something wrong? and the GP replies: 6 months. Thats around a year after Mr B 
took out the policy. Mr B has told us  and I have no reason to doubt  this was 
around the time his wife became unwell and caring for her became physically 
strenuous. And he believes this is what has brought on his knee pain. 
Since receiving our investigators view, AXA has also said that osteoarthritis is a 
chronic degenerative condition which will cause symptoms unless the patient has 
treatment or takes pain-killing medication. However, it hasnt put forward any medical 
evidence in support of that view. And looking at how the NHS describes osteoarthritis 
on its website, Im not persuaded by AXA has said. The NHS website says that whilst 
osteoarthritis is a long-term condition it doesnt necessarily get worse over time and it 
can sometimes improve; for some people the symptoms of osteoarthritis can be mild 
and may come and go.  Thats also consistent with whats said by a leading arthritis 
charity on its website which explains that the pain of osteoarthritis can come and go 
and wont inevitably get worse. It also says sometimes the pain goes away 
completely. Its website also says that osteoarthritis is often wrongly called wear and 
tear or degenerative arthritis but that degeneration is a misleading way of 
describing it, as in osteoarthritis the body is attempting to repair itself and can often 
cause no pain at all. It goes on to say that some people with osteoarthritis can have 
no pain at all, yet their X-rays can look very abnormal, and some people with normal 
x-rays can have a lot of pain. So, all in all, Im not persuaded by what AXA has said; 
that because Mr B was diagnosed with osteoarthritis in his knees in 2001, with 
extensive degenerative changes, it automatically follows that he was showing 
symptoms of that condition thereafter, unless he was taking medication (or receiving 
other treatment) to manage those symptoms. 
In summary, Im not satisfied that AXA fairly and reasonably declined Mr Bs claim to cover 
the costs of a consultation with an orthopaedic consultant on the basis that he had a pre-
existing condition.
Putting things right
I direct AXA to reconsider the claim in light of the remaining terms of the policy. And if, 
having done so, AXA concludes that it ought to have covered Mr Bs consultation with an 
orthopaedic consultant, and wouldve then covered the subsequent right knee replacement, 
it should:
A. Within 28 days from the date on which it receives documentary evidence of the 
amounts paid by Mr B in connection with the consultation and subsequent knee 
operation, reimburse Mr B for the costs he incurred; and
B.  Pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year* on the amount it pays back to Mr B 
covering the period between the date on which Mr B made the payments, to the date 
on which AXA reimburses him.
*If AXA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a
certificate showing this if asked for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs, if appropriate.
My final decisionI uphold Mr Bs complaint. I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman