DRN-3011643
The complaint
Mr B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr B took out a 36-month loan from ELL for £4,000 in July 2016. The monthly repayment 
was £251.73 and the total repayable was £9062.28. I understand a balance remains 
outstanding. 
Mr B said the loan was unaffordable based on his income and expenditure at the time and 
his financial history showed he wasnt creditworthy. 
Our investigator concluded that ELL was wrong to lend to Mr B. She said, in summary, the 
information the lender had gathered showed Mr Bs finances were under significant strain. 
So it ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr B would be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
  
ELL disagreed saying Mr B was taking out the loan to repay his payday loans and so it 
would leave him in a better financial position and allow him to end his reliance on high-cost 
short-term credit. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending is set out on our website and I have 
followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr B required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr B to understand his disposable income
before it approved the loan. It asked for his monthly income and checked this with a payslip, 
and it asked for recent bank statements. It used a percentage of income to estimate his 
monthly expenses. It checked Mr Bs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit
commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt
consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded the loan was affordable for 
Mr B. 
Like our investigator, I think ELL gathered the information it needed but didnt go on to use 
the information appropriately. And so I dont think it made the right lending decision. Mr B 
was borrowing a significant amount of money and ELL needed to be sure he would be able 
to sustainably make his monthly repayments for three years.
 
From its credit check and analysis of Mr Bs bank statements ELL was aware Mr B was 
reliant on payday loans at the time of his application. Our investigator said, in summary, this 
was a sign Mr B was struggling to manage his existing credit commitments and living costs 
from his income and so ELL should not have lent to him.  
ELL disagreed saying the loan was to allow Mr B to repay his outstanding payday loans and 
so break his dependence on them. It would leave him in a better position. I accept that in 
some circumstances this can make financial sense for a borrower, but I am not persuaded 
this is the case here. I also note Mr B only evidenced to ELL that he had settled three of his 
payday loans after receiving the loan.
ELL supplied its Go Live Audit document that shows even if Mr B settled all of his 
outstanding payday loans he still had monthly credit commitments of around £460 (across a 
loan, hire purchase agreement and credit card).  Adding the monthly repayment of this loan 
to this meant Mr B would be repaying around 45% of his net monthly income to service his 
debt. This a significant amount and I dont think ELL ought to have concluded this would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr B over the long term  as indeed it wasnt. It also knew from his bank statements that Mr B had an active line of high-cost running credit further increasing 
the risk that this lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable.
ELL argues that Mr Bs living costs were likely to be less than the 35% of income it assumed 
as he lived with his parents. But it had copies of Mr Bs bank statements and given the term 
and value of this loan and the results of Mr Bs credit check, I would have expected it to 
check Mr Bs actual living costs if its checks were to be proportionate. But even if this was 
the case it does not change my conclusion that the lending was irresponsible for the reason 
set out above. 
It follows I dont think ELL should have given Mr B this loan.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr B made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in there being a capital balance outstanding,
then ELL should work with Mr B to agree a suitable payment plan, keeping in mind its
obligation to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr B a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, 
must out things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman