DRN-1711600
The complaint
Miss B and Ms M complain that One Insurance Limited avoided Miss Bs motor insurance 
policy, didnt deal with her claim and didnt return her car. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was stolen in May 2018. She told One Insurance that Ms M had a finance 
agreement on the car. During the next few months, One Insurance made many unsuccessful 
attempts to contact Miss B to establish what financial interest Miss B had in the car (which 
was recovered and taken to a garage in June 2018).
In August 2018, given the lack of response from Miss B - and the fact that storage charges 
were accruing - One Insurance sent a disposal notice for the car to Miss B by recorded 
delivery. As there was no response, One Insurance sent a local representative to her 
address, but she no longer lived there. Meanwhile, One Insurance had established that there 
was no finance agreement relating to the car.
Miss B finally contacted One Insurance in October 2018 and said she hadnt done so 
before then due to personal reasons. She said again that the car was on finance, although 
it emerged later that Ms M had taken out a personal loan to buy it. One insurance realised 
that Ms M was the cars owner and registered keeper  although she had at some point 
completed the form to allow Miss B to register as the cars new registered keeper. 
In September 2018 One Insurance told Miss B that shed given it incorrect details when she 
took the policy out, by saying she was the cars owner and registered keeper. It said had it 
known the true facts, it wouldnt have offered her cover. So it avoided the policy and didnt 
deal with the theft claim. As Miss B wasnt happy with that she complained to this service.
One of our investigators considered Miss Bs complaint. He noted that she hadnt sent the 
document Ms M had sent to her to the DVLA to record herself as the cars registered keeper. 
He said as shed told One Insurance she was the cars owner and registered keeper, Miss B 
had misrepresented the facts to it under the provisions of the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
The investigator said as One Insurance had shown it wouldnt have offered Miss B cover had 
it known the facts, the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. One Insurance didnt say 
Miss B had misrepresented the facts deliberately or carelessly. As it thought shed only 
acted carelessly, he said One Insurance had the right to avoid the policy and not pay the 
claim, but it should return her premiums. So he upheld her complaint in part.   
The investigator thought Miss B and One Insurance  were both at fault for the poor 
communication between them. He said he couldnt look at the effect of One Insurances 
actions on Ms M, as she wasnt an eligible complainant under the rules that govern our 
service. Miss B accepted the investigators view. Ms M said One Insurance knew she had an 
insurable interest in the car, and it should have returned it to her or compensated her for it. 
She noted that the car was back on the road. One Insurance acknowledged the investigators 
view but didnt comment on it. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already said, the relevant law in this case is CIDRA, which requires a 
consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the representation is 
a qualifying one under CIDRA. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must 
show it would only have offered the policy on different terms  or not at all  if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of them is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless, or just careless. If it was deliberate or reckless  and the insurer 
can show it would at least have only offered the policy on different terms  its entitled to 
avoid the policy . In that case, it wont have to deal with any claims made on it. But if the 
misrepresentation was only careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all, but for the misrepresentation.
In this case the policy was set up in 2016 and was renewed in 2017 and 2018. One 
Insurance doesnt have the initial sales call, but in 2016 when Miss B called to change the 
car insured on the policy, she was asked to confirm that she was its owner and registered 
keeper. I think that shows the information shed provided to One Insurance prior to that date. 
The renewal documents in 2017 and 2018 show Miss B as the cars owner and registered 
keeper. On each document she was asked to confirm that shed read the questions posed 
by One Insurance and that the information shed supplied had been recorded accurately. 
Each form required her to agree that she hadnt withheld any details that might affect the risk 
on the policy, and that failure to disclose relevant facts may mean a claim wasnt paid. 
I think One Insurance asked clear and specific questions about who was the cars owner and 
who its registered keeper was. I dont think Miss B took reasonable care in responding to the 
questions, so she misrepresented the facts to One Insurance. I think it has shown that it 
wouldnt have offered her a policy had it known the facts, so the misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one. I think it was reasonable for One Insurance to decide that Miss B had only 
acted carelessly in making a misrepresentation to it. So although it had the right to avoid the 
policy and not deal with any claim made on it, One Insurance should have returned Miss Bs 
premiums. 
As Ms M isnt an eligible complainant under the rules that govern this service, we cant look 
at the impact of One Insurances actions on her. But we asked it recently about the proceeds 
of the sale of the car. It says it will raise a payment of £1,600 to Ms M, so she should contact 
it directly about that.    
I think Miss B was responsible for a long gap in the claims handling process in 2018 as she 
didnt respond to One Insurances attempts to contact her. There was an even longer gap in 
2019, when it appears that there was no contact between Miss B and One Insurance for 
several months. We asked One Insurance about that, but it didnt explain what had happened. Miss B finally chased One Insurance in August 2019. As I think both parties were 
at fault in terms of poor communication, I dont propose to require One Insurance to pay 
Miss B compensation for this issue.  
I think the complaint can be resolved fairly and reasonably by One Insurance refunding the 
premiums Miss B paid from the policys inception onwards, plus interest. Ms M can contact it 
directly about the proceeds of the cars sale.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require One Insurance Limited to 
refund Miss Bs premiums from inception onwards. It should add interest at the simple rate of 
8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
If One Insurance thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman