DRN-3828566
The complaint
Ms D complains about the service provided by AWP P&C SA (AWP) when making a travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ms D took out a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by AWP. In June, a few days 
before her departure date, she contracted Covid, which meant she had to cancel her holiday 
plans and make a claim through her insurance policy.
Ms D said that she made numerous calls to log her claim over a two-day period to several 
different numbers and each time the call disconnected after an hour of waiting. She also 
attempted to submit the claim online, however, this wasnt successful and instead she was 
directed to call on a different telephone number which wasnt answered. As a result, Ms D 
sent a complaint by email to AWP. She didnt receive a response until nearly two months 
later and the reply asked if she still needed assistance. Ms D said she responded but has 
not received a reply.
Unhappy with the situation, Ms D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and found that the service provided to Ms D by AWP was poor. She 
didnt think it was reasonable that Ms D was unable to get through to make her claim despite 
waiting on calls for several hours. And she didnt think that it was fair for Ms D to have to wait 
over eight weeks for a response to her email. As a result of this poor service, our investigator 
recommended AWP pay £150 to Ms D as compensation.
Ms D replied and accepted our investigators view. No response was received from AWP. As 
no agreement was reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a complaint is made to this service, we invite both parties to submit any information or 
documentation they think will assist us when considering the matter. It is important to point 
out at this stage that AWP has not provided any information to this service, despite several 
requests. So, I have considered this matter based on the details supplied by Ms D in support 
of her complaint. 
Ms D has explained how she spent nearly seven hours waiting on the telephone over a 
period of two days to try to speak to AWP to start the process of making her claim. Each 
time she called the line was disconnected after an hour of waiting. 
I can appreciate just how frustrating this must have been for Ms D. While it is accepted that 
there may be certain times when phone lines may be busy, I dont think it is reasonable that 
she was subjected to such lengthy call wait times, especially taking into consideration the 
call was then disconnected on each occasion without being answered. 
Im also aware that Ms D tried other options to submit her claim, including using an online 
service, however, this didnt seem to work and simply directed her to call another number, 
which also wasnt answered. Even when Ms D emailed AWP to complain about the situation 
and ask for help, it took nearly two months for AWP to reply  and the response didnt 
provide any meaningful assistance to help her submit her claim. I understand that it has 
taken a further two months for Ms D to contact AWP and initiate her claim.
It is clear that Ms D has been subjected to great inconvenience when simply trying to submit 
her insurance claim. Im aware that the claim is not for an insignificant sum and so Im sure 
that it would have been quite stressful for Ms D to not be able to start this process in order to 
receive any payment due. Im not satisfied that these delays are reasonable and so AWP 
needs to compensate her for this poor customer service.
Our investigator recommended that AWP pay a sum of £150 to Ms D as compensation. 
Considering Ms D has encountered a delay of approximately four months I think this is fair 
compensation. AWP has not responded to provide any reasoning why this shouldnt be 
awarded and so Im satisfied that this recommendation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
AWP needs to pay Ms D the sum of £150 in compensation for poor customer service during 
its claims handling process.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
AWP P&C SA needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman