DRN-1328089
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, didnt follow his instructions to 
change a standing order, and cancelled it instead.
What happened
Mr S has a current account with Halifax, and he contacted it as he wanted to change the 
amount of one of his standing orders. But the representative he spoke with cancelled it by 
mistake, and then wasnt able to retrieve the details to set it up again. They asked Mr S to 
give the details for the standing order again, which would mean he would need to get the 
right reference numbers for the bill he was paying.
This caused Mr S stress, and he had a sleepless night. He contacted Halifax the following 
day to complain and it was able to retrieve the information for the standing order and 
reinstate it with the new amount and date Mr S wanted.
Halifax said its representative had mis-understood what Mr S wanted when he called, and 
had cancelled the standing order, rather than changing the amount and next payment date. 
It apologised and offered to pay Mr S £76, £60 for his inconvenience and £16 towards his 
call costs. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Halifax had agreed that a mistake had been made, and had put this right the 
following day. He was satisfied that the compensation Halifax had offered was fair.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings as he said that the situation had brought back 
the stress hed felt over a previous issue that hed complained about, so he felt he should 
receive more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Halifaxs mistake has caused Mr S such worry and upset. I appreciate 
Mr Ss reference to his previous complaint with Halifax, but my decision here cant address 
whats already been looked at by our service. So my findings relate solely to the issue of 
Halifax cancelling his standing order when Mr S simply needed to amend it.
Halifax has acknowledged that this was an error by its representative, who had initially mis-
understood what Mr S wanted to do with his standing order. By cancelling it, the 
representative then couldnt view the specific details needed to reinstate or replace that 
standing order. However, as I understand it, this information was able to be retrieved in a 
different way, and Halifax put the mistake right for Mr S the next day.
Mr S was understandably concerned about the cancelled standing order until it was 
reinstated. To recognise this, Halifax has offered to pay Mr S a total of £76 - £60 for the 
inconvenience and £16 for his call costs. Taking everything into account, including that the mistake was put right the following day, I 
think that Halifaxs apology and offer of £76 represents a fair resolution to Mr Ss complaint.
I leave it for Mr S to contact Halifax directly if he wishes to accept this offer and the payment 
hasn't already been made. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman