DRN-4110685
The complaint
Mr E has complained about his caravan insurer Ageas Insurance Limited, in respect of a 
claim made for theft of the caravan.
Ageas is the underwriter of the cover. But it uses various companies to manage claims. They 
act on a delegated authority basis from Ageas  so Ageas is responsible for their actions. 
For ease of reading, in the main, Ill refer only to Ageas.
What happened
Mr Es caravan was stolen in June 2021. In September 2021 Ageas offered settlement to 
Mr E. It said it would either replace the caravan, with Mr E needing to make a contribution 
towards current costs, or it would pay a cash settlement at a lower rate. In either case it 
proposed deducting an excess total of £500. Mr E was unhappy with the proposed 
settlements  in short, he felt the policy was unfairly written, making it unenforceable.
Ageas said it felt its proposals were fair. It said it could only provide a replacement caravan if 
Mr E contributed to the purchase because a new caravan would cost more than the sum 
insured. It said the alternative was for it to settle in cash  which Mr E may want to do 
anyway as it couldnt advise when, due to current market demands, it would be able to 
provide a replacement. And it said the policy allows it, when settling in cash, to settle based 
on the market value for the stolen vehicle, rather than on a new for old basis (which was 
the type of cover Mr E had chosen and paid for). It said there was a standard excess of £100 
and an additional excess of £400  the latter applying because the caravan was stored at a 
non-approved site and did not comprise approved safety features.
Mr E disputed Ageas position at length, referencing many laws and regulations, also 
referring various of his concerns to bodies such as the Financial Conduct Authority. He also 
made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt Ageas had offered settlement proposals in line with the policy terms. So 
he felt it had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr E did not agree with the outcome. His complaint 
was referred for consideration by an Ombudsman.
I felt that Ageas settlement proposal had been unfair and unreasonable, as well as delayed. 
I thought it should be settling the claim based on the sum insured, plus interest and that it 
should be paying Mr E £300 compensation. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my 
views to both parties. My provisional findings were:
Ill explain here that my decision does not answer or consider all of the points and 
arguments Mr E has raised about the cover. I trust hell take this as no discourtesy. It is my 
job to get to the heart of the complaint issues and consider whether, in those respects, the 
business has acted fairly and reasonably. And, if it hasnt, what needs to be done to put 
matters right. The issue at the heart of all this is really the settlement. And that is what my 
decision will focus on. I think, having considered all of the points in discussion between the 
parties, and in their submissions to this service, there are three main concerns in respect of 
the settlement:
Can Ageas rely on the sum insured to limit its liability for settlement?
Can Ageas, if settling in cash, do so based on the market value of the caravan?
Can Ageas apply the additional excess?
Sum insured
The policy schedule says the sum insured is £19,064. It says this is the sum insured for the 
new for old cover. Theres no further explanation here of what the phrases sum insured, or 
new for old mean. But I wouldnt expect to find explanatory detail like this in a summary 
document like the schedule. The policy wording sets out the definitions of key terms. The 
definition for new for old explains the cover is based on the replacement cost of the same 
type of caravan, or nearest equivalent  and that the maximum the insurer will pay for any 
claim is the sum insured. Furthermore, the cover letter sent with Mr Es renewal documents 
highlights that the new for old cover is based on the sum insured, that the sum insured must 
represent the full replacement cost of the caravan, and that the sum insured is all the insurer 
will pay in the event of a claim. In bold Mr E is directed to check the sum insured to avoid 
the risk of receiving less than you expect in the event of a claim. So I think Mr E was 
reasonably put on notice about what the sum insured was meant to reflect and what might 
happen if a non-reflective value was used.
It was always up to Mr E to ensure he gave correct information like this. It wasnt up to 
Ageas to check whether or not the information given was correct.
Im aware that the policy only came into effect around ten days before the caravan was 
stolen. And that, in the interim, Mr E had become aware that the sum insured might not be 
indicative of the replacement cost. I understand that he was still considering whether or not 
to amend the policy when the caravan was stolen. That is unfortunate. But I dont think that 
means that Ageas must fairly act as though Mr E had taken the opportunity to update the 
cover. As I understand it Mr E was concerned that the additional premium, plus security 
requirements that would be required in line with an increased sum insured, were unfair. Im 
not persuaded then that Mr E, if a little more time had been available before the theft 
occurred, would have reverted to Ageas to amend the policy in respect of the sum insured. 
So I think Ageas liability is reasonably limited to the sum insured. Which was £19,064.  
Market value
Mr E arranged a policy and selected new for old cover. He paid his premium and expected 
to receive new for old cover in return. Only within the policy wording document does it 
explain that cash settlements, even on new for old policies, will be based on the market 
value of the caravan  not its replacement or new for old cost. I dont think that is fair. This 
is quite a restrictive term as it potentially changes the nature of the cover contracted for. If 
Ageas wanted to be able to rely on a term like this, I think it would need to have been 
highlighted within its documentation. 
But, regardless, I dont think Ageas can fairly rely on that term here anyway. It isnt unusual 
in insurance policies for an insurer to add terms to the cover which seek to restrict its outlay 
for cash settlements in some way. Usually such terms dont go so far as to change the 
nature of the cover. But they all seek to protect the insurer from situations where it could 
replace an item, but the policyholder insists on being paid cash, where the cash value will 
result in an increased outlay for the insurer. The principle is sound. But it all stands on the 
premise of an insurer reasonably being able to provide a replacement. And according to Ageas own details, it was not in a position to do that here. Ageas had obtained a price for a 
replacement caravan  but the stockist or manufacturer did not have any caravans for sale, 
and Ageas wasnt given any timescale for when one might become available. I appreciate 
the market was disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But I cant say that an unknown but 
potentially long wait for an item equates to the insurer offering a reasonable replacement. In 
that scenario, I think Mr E fairly and reasonably has to be offered a cash settlement based 
on what Ageas would have paid if it had been able to provide a replacement caravan. 
Ageas said it would have paid for a replacement up to the value of the sum insured, but less 
the applicable policy excess(es). Ill deal with the excess(es) below. But, in respect of Ageas 
maximum liability being the sum insured, taking into account my view above about the sum 
insured, I think that the most Ageas would have paid for a replacement caravan was 
£19,064. 
Excess
 
Very succinctly, I dont think Ageas can fairly and reasonably apply the additional excess. 
The policy schedule is meant to contain all of the key policy information  such as applicable 
excesses. And theres also an Important Policy Information Document. It is quite normal for 
excess values to be set out in summary in these documents  I wouldnt expect a 
policyholder to have to wade through all the policy documents in their entirety to try and find 
out what the key charges are which they might face when making a claim. And here it is only 
if the policyholder should happen to read the definition of excess on page six of the 
19-page policy wording, that they are alerted to the fact that an additional excess for theft 
claims might apply. Additional that is, to the standard excess set out in the schedule.  
The IPID does not mention excess values at all. The schedule says that the standard excess 
for claims under section one (which include those for theft) is £100. That is all it says, it does 
not even, for example, say plus an additional excess, see policy wording. There is nothing 
which alerts the policyholder to any other excess being potentially or likely applicable. As 
such, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Ageas to apply the additional £400 excess.
Further, whilst Ageas can fairly and reasonably apply the £100 standard excess, this in line 
with good industry practice, should be applied to the overall claim amount. The claim 
amount, at over £20,000 exceeds the sum insured by more than £100. Which means Ageas 
is liable to Mr E for the full amount of the sum insured, £19.064. 
Delay
This was not really a complicated claim. I appreciate though that it came during the time of 
the pandemic  so some insurers were seeing additional pressures. Even then, I cant see 
why it took Ageas from June to September 2021 to make its offer of settlement. I think it was 
likely delayed by at least around two months. I dont doubt that was frustrating for Mr E. And 
when the settlement offer was made, it wasnt, as Ive found, fair or reasonable. 
Im minded to require Ageas to pay Mr E £300 compensation for the upset its delay and 
unfair settlement offer caused. Im also minded to require Ageas to add interest on to the 
settlement amount from the date of loss until settlement is made. This to make up for the fact 
that Mr Es claim was not settled in a timely manner as expected  meaning he had neither 
replacement goods nor money with which to purchase any, as the policy entitled him to. 
Mr E said he felt my decision presented an equitable outcome. He provided some further 
comment about the role of the regulator, the trade guides used to assess the market value of 
a vehicle and Ageas business practices. Ageas said it didnt agree the claim was delayed. It said a timeline from its adjuster showed 
there was constantly claim activity occurring apart from for a period of two weeks in 
mid-August 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr E for his further comments. But they dont impact on the finings I made. And I note 
he says that he views my suggested resolution as equitable. 
I note the summary timeline provided by Ageas in reply to my provisional decision. But I was 
aware when considering the complaint that activity was occurring between June to 
September 2021, I had not suggested the claim was entirely left in abeyance. I still think the 
claim activity could have been handled better, in a more compressed, efficient manner  that 
it should not have taken Ageas until September 2021 to make its offer to Mr E. And Im still 
satisfied that the offer then made was unfair and unreasonable. 
Having reviewed the complaint in light of the responses from the parties to my provisional 
decision, my view on it remains unchanged. My provisional findings, along with my 
comments here, now form the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr E:
£19,064 in settlement of his claim for the stolen caravan, plus interest* from the date of 
loss until settlement is made.
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Ageas to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman