DRN-2809886
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about an application she made to Legal & General Home Finance 
Limited (L&G) for a lifetime mortgage. Shes unhappy that the application was turned down 
and attributes that to the type of valuation that was completed. In addition, she is unhappy 
with the process she had to go through, and the timescales involved. Mrs R has said she 
found the whole process distressing and feels used and let down by L&G.
What happened
In 2020 Mrs R decided to release some equity from her home to pay off some debts and gift 
some money to her children. She contacted a part of the Legal & General group (separate 
from Legal & General Home Finance Limited) to discuss a lifetime mortgage. Shes told us 
that she felt that the adviser was encouraging her to release more money than shed 
planned, and she started thinking about doing some home improvements too. 
Mrs R was provided with a key facts document when she was speaking to the financial 
adviser. This detailed the amount she wanted to borrow, the maximum L&G would lend her 
(based on her estimate of the property value) and set out the main features of the mortgage. 
It was clearly stated at the beginning of the document that L&G wasnt obliged to provide the 
mortgage. It also confirmed that granting of the mortgage would depend on Mrs R and her 
property meeting its lending criteria. 
Mrs Rs application was made in August 2020. It was for a lump sum of money and a 
drawdown facility to allow Mrs R to take further funds against the value of the property later, 
if she wished. Whilst a physical valuation was detailed as being needed at the time, due to ill 
health on Mrs Rs part, L&G agreed to do a desktop valuation. This was agreed and 
instructed on 11 September 2020.
On 22 September 2020 L&G was told by the surveyors it had commissioned to do a desktop 
valuation, that it wasnt a suitable property to do that type of valuation. This was because of 
the amount of land attached to it. As such a physical valuation needed to be done. This was 
communicated to Mrs Rs financial adviser and the valuation was instructed on 
25 September 2020.
The valuation was done on 9 October 2020. It detailed that the property was detached and 
built in 1926. It was recorded that the property was in poor condition; inside and out. The 
surveyor confirmed that the property was timber framed without a conventional masonry 
outer leaf.
L&G received the valuation report on 15 October 2020. L&Gs lending criteria confirms that it 
doesnt lend on timber framed properties built during the period Mrs Rs home was. As such, 
the mortgage application was declined. 
Mrs R complained to L&G. She explained that she was very unhappy with the insulting, 
unprofessional behaviour of the surveyor who completed the valuation. She was concerned 
that the surveyors opinion may have jeopardised any future valuation of the property. In 
addition, she said the financial adviser had caused her immense distress by suggesting that 
she apply for more money than shed originally planned and by encouraging her to improve 
the property. She said she was horrified at the extensive and intrusive questioning about 
herself and her financial situation. She said the adviser was continually optimistic. Hed also 
encouraged her to involve her children before she had confirmation shed get the money, 
and so shed had to disappoint them.
Mrs R believed that the financial adviser was utterly incompetent, as he should have been 
able to make a judgement as to whether the property was suitable for the mortgage in the 
first in-depth conversations they had. She considered it was disgraceful that she had waited 
nearly four months to be told the mortgage wouldnt be granted. She said she dont know 
why L&G hadnt offered at least something, bearing in mind the amount of distress shed 
been caused.
In addition, Mrs R explained that shed asked for a desktop valuation because she was 
ashamed of the state of her property. She said she felt used and abused; that she was 
devastated by the gruelling process. She said she didnt think L&G should be able to 
seductively offer so much to people like her and then just drop and abandon them, especially 
when so much money is made.
L&G sent Mrs R two letters in response to her complaint. In the first letter it apologised that 
her property wasnt suitable for a desktop valuation, but it said it hadnt been aware of the 
amount of land associated with the property when it agreed to that type of valuation. Had it 
been, it wouldnt have agreed or made the instruction it did. However, it admitted that there 
was a delay in in providing the surveyors with information and this meant the surveyors 
didnt say no to a desktop valuation until 22 September 2020. L&G offered Mrs R £50 
compensation for the delay it caused. 
The second complaint response explained that the financial adviser worked for a different 
part of the Legal and General group and so Mrs Rs complaint about the advice shed 
received needed to be directed to his employer. However, Mrs R had told it not to do that on 
her behalf, so L&G said it would leave it to her to decide whether to raise a complaint or not. 
When doing so it pointed out that the adviser would only have been aware of the 
construction of the property if Mrs R had told him. As shed told L&G that she hadnt known 
about the construction, she couldnt have told the financial adviser and he couldnt have 
known. L&G also explained that arranging the valuation was part of the process it did, and 
the adviser couldnt have arranged for it to happen any earlier. 
In relation to the behaviour of the surveyor, L&G said that it had been told by the surveying 
firm he had arrived at the correct time for the booking it had made with Mrs R. However, the 
surveying firm apologised if its employee had come across as rude and that no offence was 
meant to have been caused. L&G went on to explain that it relies on the surveyors opinion 
about properties. As the surveyor had said the property was timber framed, it fell outside of 
its lending criteria and so it couldnt provide Mrs R with funds.
Mrs R wasnt happy with L&Gs response to her complaint. She wrote to us and explained 
her situation and what had happened. She repeated her concerns about the time it took for 
the lending decision to be made and remained unhappy that L&G wasnt willing to lend to 
her. She asked that we consider her complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained the processes for mortgage advice and the subsequent application. He 
was satisfied that Mrs R was made aware that her home had to meet with L&Gs lending 
criteria before she applied for the mortgage. As the construction of her home didnt fit with 
that lending criteria, he couldnt find that L&G had incorrectly or unfairly declined Mrs Rs 
application. Mrs R didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said she believed them to be biased 
and not impartial. She reiterated her comments about being unhappy about the financial 
adviser not having told her at the beginning of the process that her home wasnt suitable for 
lending purposes. She also repeated how she felt having had to go through the process, 
especially the information gathering exercise with the financial adviser.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As L&G highlighted to Mrs R in its second response letter, the financial adviser didnt work 
for it. As such I wont comment on her concerns about the actions of the financial adviser in 
this decision. My consideration of Mrs Rs concerns will start at the point the application was 
made and L&G took control of the process. 
After the application was, made which documented that a physical valuation was to be 
arranged, Mrs R asked that the value of the property be determined by a desktop exercise. It 
was later established that the physical valuation was needed because of the amount of land 
associated with the property. However, L&G didnt know that at the time of Mrs Rs request 
and it agreed to the type of valuation she wanted. Although this agreement might have 
added a small amount of time onto the process, I dont think L&G did anything wrong in 
trying to facilitate Mrs Rs preferences. 
Overall, the process from Mrs R submitting her application to L&G declining it, took around 
seven weeks. It isnt unusual for mortgage applications to take six weeks or more to be 
assessed, so the timescale was not unreasonable in general terms. That said, L&G has 
admitted it caused a delay of around two weeks during the time the surveyors were involved. 
It offered Mrs R £50 compensation for this delay. I think that is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
In relation to the lending decision, I dont think L&G did anything wrong. Lenders are entitled 
to decide what risks they are willing to accept in relation to any lending they agree. That 
includes the type of property it is willing to lend on. What is known as non-standard 
construction, which would include timber-framed properties, is often something lenders 
choose not to take the risk of lending on. As long as the lending criteria is fairly applied to all 
potential customers, it isnt something this service would interfere with. 
In this case L&G relied on the valuation produced by a suitably qualified expert and 
determined that the property didnt fall within its lending criteria. I dont consider it acted 
inappropriately, or treated Mrs R unfairly, when it declined her application. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 
14 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman