DRN-1094695
 
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way the Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) dealt with a chargeback 
request. 
What happened
Mrs B is elderly with mobility issues. She ordered a bed which raises and lowers itself from a 
specialist supplier, who I will refer to as O. She paid a deposit and a further payment totalling 
£1,950 using her BoS VISA debit card. 
The bed was delivered on 5 June 2019 and the old bed was taken away to be donated to 
charity as agreed. Unfortunately there were problems with the new bed as the mattress 
didnt fit properly. Mrs B contacted O who sent someone to examine it on 13 June. 
Mrs B didnt think the bed was fit for purpose and felt O was being difficult about providing a 
refund or a replacement. So she contacted BoS on 17 June to request a chargeback on her 
debit card. BoS said it needed more information in order to contact VISA to request the 
chargeback so Mrs B had to visit the branch, which was inconvenient because of her 
mobility issues. 
O then said on 26 June that they would collect the bed and refund Mrs B the amount less a 
£215 collection  fee as set out in their terms and conditions. BoS wanted more information, 
requiring another trip to the branch. And Mrs B says she had to make more phone calls to 
chase things up.
On 4 July on Mrs Bs third visit to branch BoS advised her it wasnt possible to request a 
chargeback. Mrs B says it didnt explain why. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with the way BoS had handled matters and complained to it about the 
chargeback. She also thought some BoS staff had been rude to her. BoS looked into what 
had happened and confirmed the chargeback couldnt be requested once O had agreed to a 
refund. This was the case even though the refund was subject to a collection fee because 
the fee was set out in Os terms and conditions.  
BoS said it made a mistake in not telling her this on her second trip to the branch when Mrs 
B told them O would refund her less the collection fee. Had it done so this would have saved 
further trips to the branch and it apologised. It offered £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and paid this into her account. 
Mrs B wasnt happy and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator agreed with BoS that the chargeback couldnt be requested for the reasons 
given. So she didnt think it was at fault here.
The investigator agreed BoS was wrong in not telling Mrs B that a chargeback couldnt be 
requested earlier and that this had inconvenienced her. But BoS had apologised for this and paid her £100 in compensation which she considered to be fair. She also explained that our 
service couldnt get involved with disciplinary matters for individual staff.
Mrs B didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I understand how upsetting and frustrating all this must have been for Mrs B. And by initially 
confusing matters with the chargeback BoS would have added to this. It is clear from her 
emails and calls that she is very upset with O but I can only consider BoS role in the matter. I 
think that BoS has been fair and reasonable in both apologising and compensating Mrs B for 
the problems it caused.
I think there are some things BoS could have done better than it did. It should have told Mrs 
B sooner that a chargeback couldnt be made.  But the fact is that once O offered a refund, 
despite it being subject to a fee, a chargeback couldnt be actioned under the VISA scheme 
(or if it could, it wouldnt have resulted in a different outcome). So theres nothing more BoS 
could have done to get Mrs B her money back. Whether Mrs Bs contract with O is fair in 
relation to the fee or anything else is not something our service can consider - Mrs B would 
have to pursue that through alternative means if she so wishes. 
Mrs B has raised concerns about how staff dealt with her. However, Ive not seen anything 
which leads me to think she was treated unreasonably beyond the points Ive noted above. 
BoS has apologised for the service it provided and paid Mrs B £100 compensation which I 
think is fair and reasonable considering what happened. So I wont be asking it to do any 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman