DRN-2881605
The complaint
Mr H complains that Warranty Management Services Limited (WMS) mis-sold his
mechanical breakdown insurance policy to him.  
What happened
Mr H bought a used car in February 2018, at the same time an agent of WMS sold him a 24-
month mechanical breakdown insurance policy. Just over a year later, Mr H took his car to a
garage as it needed repairing, he was told the crank pulley needed changing. Because of
this Mr H claimed on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy.
The insurer reviewed the claim and declined it as pulleys werent covered. Mr H wasnt
happy about this as hed been told all parts were covered when he bought the policy. He
said he was only sent the full policy documents which showed pulleys werent covered when
he claimed. So, he complained to WMS about the sale of his policy.
WMS reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the policy terms and conditions
were downloaded by the selling agent when he bought the warranty. So, it thought Mr H had
been given sufficient information about the warranty before it was sold to him. Mr H didnt
agree and brought his complaint here, he also provided an e-mail from the selling agent
which said all mechanical and electrical parts would be covered. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2021 where I said:
When Mr H was sold his mechanical breakdown insurance policy it was done so through a
car dealer who was an agent of WMS. This was done on a non-advised basis. Under
industry guidelines (ICOBS) WMS had a responsibility to provide Mr H with information that
was clear, fair and not misleading when it sold him the policy.
Ive reviewed the documentation which WMS said was given to Mr H at the time of the sale,
and I can see it does list which parts arent covered. However, Im not persuaded these were
explained to Mr H. I say this because the document which should be signed by Mr H to say
the main terms and conditions have been explained to me isnt signed. WMS has said its
requested these documents from the selling agent but havent received a response.
Mr H has also provided an e-mail from the selling agent at the time the policy was sold to
him which provides an overview and price for the warranty. Within the overview it says: will
cover all electrical and mechanical failure, and repair the vehicle at a local VAT registered
garage.
Mr H has also said at the time of sale he wasnt provided the details of which parts werent
covered and said he was only given leaflet about the warranty. Ive reviewed the leaflet and
it provides a list of parts which are covered and virtually all of these have a tick next to them,
but it doesnt explain what isnt covered. When Ive taken all of these things into account, Im
not persuaded Mr H was given clear, fair and not misleading information when he was sold
his policy.
Ive therefore looked at what I think Mr H would have done if he had been given clear, fair
and not misleading information about his policy. Mr H said if hed known how extensive the
list of parts which arent covered was then he would never have bought the policy. Im
persuaded by his testimony about this and therefore the fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint is to put him back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt bought the
policy. WMS therefore needs to refund Mr H the £545 he paid for the policy. It should also
add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, calculated from the date he paid it until the
date WMS makes the settlement, to compensate him for not having the money. 
Both Mr H and WMS responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr H and WMS accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Warranty Management Services Limited to refund Mr H the £545 he paid for his 
policy, plus 8% simple interest per year calculated from the date Mr H paid this to the date 
settlement is paid.  
If Warranty Management Services considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman