DRN-2062182
The complaint
Miss S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited refused her chargeback 
claim. She wants a full refund of payments made for services which were not provided and 
which were paid for through her chargecards.
What happened
Miss S has for part of this complaint been represented by solicitors. But for ease of reading 
Ill just refer to her.
Miss S tells us that she arranged a booking for a birthday function with a business Ill refer to 
as TB. She states that she made four payments totalling £20,000 using her various AMEX 
chargecards. But due to concerns about whether TBs premises would be able to 
accommodate the function  due to major building works  Miss S says she decided to 
cancel the arrangement. She says that the terms of the booking contract offered a full refund 
at the time she made the cancellation. Miss S states that her requests for the refund to TB 
have proved unsuccessful. So she turned to AMEX. 
Amex told us that it had raised a chargeback claim with TBs bank. But the claim was 
subsequently defended. And it (AMEX) considered that the information which Miss S had 
supplied was insufficient to determine the dispute in her favour.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
AMEX had followed the correct process and had acted fairly  based on the information it 
had obtained  in not refunding the disputed payments.
Miss S didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss S would be concerned about circumstances in which shes paid a 
large sum of money without apparent return.
Miss S complaint is that the £20,000 that she states was paid through her chargecards 
towards a birthday function hasnt been refunded by TB when she cancelled the booking 
within the period in which a full refund shouldve been made. She feels Amex should refund 
this sum of money to her.
TB isnt directly a party to this complaint, but in order to fully explain the context in which the 
transactions were made I need to record its response to the chargeback claim. This was to 
the effect that the £20,000 paid to it by Miss S was in relation to a non-refundable deposit 
relating to a separate business arrangement. And not payment towards the birthday function.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigator set out a timeline of events in her view. As both parties have seen this, I 
wont repeat it in detail. In summary, it sets out a history of the payments made. And it also 
refers to the separate business relationship between Miss S and a part owner of TB.
Miss S made a number of payments amounting in total to £20,000 using her AMEX 
chargecards. Ive confirmed that no payments were made via credit cards. This is an 
important issue as chargecards  unlike credit cards - do not enjoy the potential protection 
afforded by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So AMEX applied what is known 
as the chargeback process.
Its important to note that Im not determining the merits of any claim Miss S may have 
against TB.  What Im determining if AMEX followed the required process when it received 
Miss S complaint.
It may help if I set out briefly the chargeback process. This is provided by the Card Scheme - 
in this case AMEX. It allows customers to ask for transactions to be reversed if theres a 
problem with the goods or services theyve paid for.
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund. AMEX checks the nature of the problem against the possible chargeback 
reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. Here that would be under the provision 
for services being cancelled but a refund not being made. Thats what happened here. 
AMEX raised the claim which was then defended. 
Given the nature of the account provided by TB in defending the chargeback, Amex found 
itself in the position of being asked to make a judgment between two contradictory 
explanations.
To complicate matters, there were allegations that some of the documents which had been 
supplied by the parties in support of their respective positions may be either fabricated or not 
relevant to the complaint.
Chargeback isnt a process that was designed to determine complex disputes where both 
the factual basis of the payments and the authenticity of documentary information provided 
by the parties is in dispute. 
Amex explained that it had declined the chargeback request as Miss S hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence to dispute the charges. To have found otherwise AMEX would have had 
to decide on the authenticity of documentary information supplied by Miss S and which had 
been specifically challenged. I dont think that it was unreasonable that it declined to do so. 
Im aware that Miss S will be disappointed at my decision. But I again emphasise that this is 
not based on the merits of any claim she may have against TB. Ive made no finding about 
the authenticity of certain documents provided by the parties.In summary, I find that AMEX followed the correct chargeback process. Based on the 
information which it had, I find it was reasonable for it not to accept the chargeback claim.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman