DRN-3620345
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (U K Insurance) declined a claim following the 
theft of his car under his motor insurance policy. 
Mr B is represented by Ms B in his complaint. For ease I will refer to Mr B in my decision.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr Bs car was stolen. He contacted U K Insurance to make a claim under 
his policy. It declined the claim because Mr B had not fitted a tracker device to his car. U K 
Insurance says it is a requirement of its policy that a tracker be fitted in order for theft cover 
to be provided. 
Mr B says he wasnt made aware of this requirement prior to the contract with U K Insurance 
being completed. He refers to the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) (2015) and says the term the 
business relied on is unfair and wasnt adequately brought to his attention prior to agreeing 
his policy. 
U K Insurance told Mr B that he bought his policy using a comparison website. During the 
application he was asked if his vehicle had a tracker, to which he responded no. It says an 
endorsement was applied to the policy that stated a tracking device, with a current network 
subscription, must be in place for theft cover to apply. U K Insurance says this information 
was provided in three places. During the application, the policy schedule and in the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).
U K Insurance says the endorsement was added to Mr Bs policy before the application 
completed, and before he was asked for payment. It says this was made clear. It says the 
policy documents were provided three weeks prior to the policy commencing. This gave Mr 
B the opportunity to read the terms and provided a 14-day cancellation period if he wasnt 
satisfied.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
says that during the online application it was confirmed that a tracking device must be fitted. 
She says a link is provided to the IPID for Mr B to read, which also explains this requirement. 
Our investigator thought the terms were clear that a tracker must be fitted for theft cover to 
apply. Because of this she didnt think U K Insurance had treated Mr B unfairly. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr B applied for his policy using a comparison website. U K Insurance has sent us 
screenshots of the information he was presented with during his application. I can see Mr B 
was provided with the following message:
Endorsements: A tracking device must be fitted to this car and have a current network 
subscription for Theft cover to apply.
Below this message was a box containing a link to the IPID. It says the IPID is a summary to 
help Mr B decide if the policy is right for him and to show what it does and doesnt cover. It 
also explains full policy documents will be available if Mr B decides to buy the insurance. 
The IPID includes the following information on the front page under the heading, Are there 
any restrictions on cover.
We will not pay a claim if your car is stolen and any tracking device, which we insist is fitted, 
has not been set or is not in full working order. 
I can see that within the policy schedule, which sets out the important details for Mr Bs 
policy, there is a section entitled, Your endorsements. In this section it repeats the 
message that a tracking device must be fitted for theft cover to apply. 
Having considered this information I think its been shown that Mr B was given notice prior to 
completing his application that an endorsement applied to his policy. This meant he had to 
have a tracking device fitted to his car for theft cover to apply. During the application he was 
also given a link to the IPID. This repeats the message clearly, on the front page, that a 
tracking device is a requirement for theft cover to apply. The policy documents also tell Mr B 
that he should take care to check all the information. If he notices something is wrong, he 
should let U K insurance know as this could result in claims being turned down. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs reference to the CRA (2015). In particular his view that the 
endorsement was unfair as it acts to deprive him of a substantial benefit of the contract. This 
being theft cover for his vehicle. I note his view that this wasnt brought to his attention prior 
to the contract (insurance policy) being agreed. 
Our service offers a dispute resolution service that is an alternative to the courts. I must have 
regard to the law. But ultimately my role is to provide a resolution based on what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable based on all the evidence and the circumstances described. 
I have thought about Mr Bs comments on the endorsement being an unfair term. Ive also 
considered the part of the CRA that explains a term neednt be assessed for fairness if it is 
transparent and prominent. Section 64 (4) of the CRA (2015) says:
A term is prominent for the purposes of this section if it is brought to the consumers 
attention in such a way that an average consumer would be aware of the term.
For the reasons Ive already stated Im satisfied the requirement for a tracking device was 
made clear to Mr B during his application. I think an average consumer would reasonably be 
aware of this term from the information provided during the application and from the policy 
documents that were made available. 
Im sorry Mr B has suffered a significant financial loss from the theft of his car. But I think he 
was given clear information upfront to understand a tracking device must be fitted for theft 
cover to apply under his policy. He also had a 14-day cancellation period in which he 
couldve read the terms and cancelled the policy without charge. Because of this I dont think 
U K Insurance treated Mr B unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining his claim for the reason it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman