DRN-3627747
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard failed to properly 
administer his account, leading to an unauthorised transaction and the closure of his 
account, causing damage to his credit rating.
What happened
Mr C held an account with Barclaycard for some years before moving to a new address 
abroad. He explained that he suffered various lapses in customer service and wanted to 
change his account that better suited his circumstances whilst abroad. Arrangements were 
made to change his card and a new one was sent to his foreign address, but unfortunately 
this didnt arrive. 
Barclaycard sent another card to Mr C at his foreign address, but again this didnt arrive. Mr 
C noticed that an unauthorised transaction had occurred on his account and asked 
Barclaycard to investigate. It appears that this was mistakenly recorded as a dispute, rather 
than fraud.
Mr C stopped making payments against his account, which generated a series of letters sent 
to his UK address. Mr C has said he couldnt make payments against his account because 
his card was blocked. Eventually, Barclaycard defaulted the account due to the ongoing lack 
of payments against the debt and subsequently sold it to a third-party business. Mr C was 
then sent various messages about the outstanding debt. 
Barclaycard closed Mr Cs account and updated the missed payments with various credit 
reference agencies. Mr C made a complaint to Barclaycard about their management of his 
account and the way they handled the fraudulent transaction. Barclaycards response to Mr 
Cs complaint left him unhappy and he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked 
both parties for information about the complaint.
It was apparent that Barclaycards records werent as complete as they could have been and 
a number of earlier complaints had complicated the outstanding issues. One of these issues 
was the disputed transaction Mr C had earlier told Barclaycard about. After Mr C had 
provided further detail to Barclaycard, they agreed to remove the charge from his account 
and refund any interest accrued as a result of it. Our investigator concluded that Barclaycard 
hadnt acted fairly towards Mr C and recommended that Barclaycard pay him £150. But he 
also thought that it was fair for Barclays to record Mr Cs account with the missed payments, 
the default on his account and then to close it.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators outcome and argued that he wasnt able to pay any 
funds off his account because his card had been blocked. He wanted the outstanding 
amounts written off, the removal of the default and his credit file updating. Mr C also wanted 
Barclaycard to reinstate his account.
Mr Cs account has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several elements to this complaint, so Ill deal with them separately.
Disputed transaction
Whilst its apparent that Barclaycard mistakenly registered Mr Cs original claim as a dispute, 
rather than as fraud, they eventually refunded the payment back to his account. As a result, I 
dont need to address the refund any further.
Card replacements
Mr C had requested a different account that would better suit him, and he needed a different 
card which was sent to his new address abroad. Ive seen the records supplied by 
Barclaycard that show the cards were sent to this address, but it appears they never arrived. 
I realise Mr C was critical of Barclaycard for failing to safely deliver the cards, but once 
theyre sent, Barclaycard have little control over the transport of them. So, I cant find them at 
fault for the loss of them during the delivery journey, which was the responsibility of various 
third-party businesses. 
Mr C commented that Barclaycard could have sent the second one to his UK address, after 
the loss of the first one. But, hed already asked Barclaycard to send them to his foreign 
address, so I dont think its reasonable to expect Barclaycard to change the destination 
when theyd already been asked to send them to the foreign address. 
Account payments/closure/default 
Once Mr C identified the fraudulent transaction, he chose not to make further payments 
against his account. Theres some disagreement about why he stopped making them, but 
the relevant issue for me to consider here is was it reasonable for Mr C to stop making 
payments in such circumstances. 
Barclaycard have explained that if the only outstanding transactions were fraudulent ones, 
theyd write off the debt. But here, Mr C also had undisputed transactions on his card that 
required repayment. By choosing not to repay them, the account would eventually be 
defaulted, which is what happened. Barclaycard then sold on the debt, which isnt unusual in 
such cases. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to default the account, because even 
without the disputed transaction, the account held a debt that Mr C was required to repay. 
Barclaycard sent various letters to Mr C at his UK address, explaining the situation and how 
he could repay the debt. So, I dont think that Mr Cs explanation that because his card was 
blocked, he could no longer make payments against his account was reasonable. There 
were several ways to make payments to his account, none of which required an active card. 
I think Mr Cs choice to stop making payments led to the closure and default of his account. I 
wont be asking Barclaycard to re-open the account as I think it was reasonable for them to 
close it after they stopped receiving payments towards the debt. I would remind Barclaycard 
that if they havent already done so, they should ensure that the debt they sold on to the third 
party is updated with the removal of the disputed transaction and associated interest.Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think Barclaycard could have dealt with Mr Cs account 
better and investigated his claim of the dispute transaction earlier. But Mr Cs choice to stop 
paying also led to legitimate payments being missed, ultimately leading to a default and the 
closure of his account. 
Barclaycard should now pay Mr C £150 for the way they handled his account and the 
unnecessary stress they caused to him and that any reporting to the credit reference 
agencies reflects Mr Cs financial situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC  
trading as Barclaycard to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman