DRN-2979301
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the settlement value The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) have paid him for the loss of two vehicles insured under a 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
He is also unhappy he was told the vehicles would be scrapped only to later find out they 
had been re-sold. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr M, and by NFU, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr Ms policy sets out that where a vehicle is damaged, the maximum NFU will pay is 
the market value of the vehicle.
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides 
refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as 
well as any extras and the mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower 
than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value 
of the vehicle.
Having looked at the trade guides Im satisfied the amounts NFU has offered Mr M 
for his vehicles exceeds those amounts. I can see market research was also 
undertaken at the time and the values were raised in excess of the trade guides to 
recognise modifications the vehicles had, as well as advertised prices at that time.
I recognise one of the vehicles had sentimental value to Mr M however the policy, as 
set out above, will only pay the market value of that vehicle. Given the value paid is 
nearly double the value of the trade guides, Im satisfied it is a fair and reasonable 
amount. 
The values are based on the date of loss. I recognise the second-hand market has 
fluctuated recently however Im satisfied the values are reasonable for the date of 
loss. 
I understand it would have been a shock to Mr M to learn the vehicles had been sold 
on and returned to the road, when hed been told they had to be scrapped. Given the 
type of damage caused to them, I think they were correctly categorised in line with 
industry guidance. The policy sets out that if NFU settles a claim for a vehicle by 
paying its market value, the vehicle then becomes its property.
In this instance however the vehicles were reclassified as the salvage agent NFU 
sold the vehicles to, undertook extensive sanitation of them and repaired them. The 
salvage agent then took on the responsibility of the safety of those vehicles being 
returned to the road. 
Having reviewed the evidence available to me regarding the damage caused, I dont 
think NFU acted unreasonably in not returning the vehicles to Mr M given the 
rectification work needed and potential risks that remained afterwards. However, I 
recognise Mr M would have been caused distress when he learnt about the 
subsequent reclassification of the vehicles.
I think NFU should pay Mr M £300 compensation to reflect this. 
Putting things right
To put things right, NFU should do the following:
- Pay Mr M £300 compensation  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited. I direct it to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman