DRN-4115103
The complaint
Miss D has complained that her motor insurer, Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited 
(Mulsanne), unfairly cancelled her motor insurance policy.
Mulsanne is the underwriter of this policy i.e., the insurer. Throughout the claim Miss D was 
also dealing with other companies who act as Mulsannes agents. As Mulsanne has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to 
Mulsanne includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss D took out a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne through a price 
comparison website. The policy started in March 2022 and was being administered by a 
broker. The policy was a telematics or a black box policy and under its terms Miss D had to 
install the black box and ensure that it was properly working.
In November 2022 Miss D says she received text and email messages from Mulsanne 
informing her that her black box was not transmitting data and that shed have to reinstall it. 
She says she emailed and called Mulsanne during this time, but its offices were closed. Over 
the same period, she says she also received letters from Mulsanne providing her with details 
of her driving score. She says this suggested the black box was transmitting data.
On 9 January 2023 Mulsanne emailed Miss D a letter which, again, said that it wasnt 
receiving any data from the black box. The letter said if this wasnt rectified within seven 
days the policy would be cancelled. On 24 January 2023 Mulsanne wrote to Miss D again to 
say her policy had been cancelled on 16 January 2023. Mulsanne asked Miss D to return the 
box and also said there was a balance outstanding. 
Miss D complained and said that because she continued to receive letters informing her of 
her driving score, she assumed the box was working. She also said that the box light was on 
which reinforced this belief.
Mulsanne didnt uphold the complaint. It said under its policy terms it was entitled to cancel a 
policy by giving seven days notice if the box stopped transmitting data. And as it hadnt 
heard from Miss D after its 9 January 2023 letter it proceeded to cancel the policy. 
Miss D didnt agree and complained to us. She said Mulsanne had provided conflicting 
information. She said if she thought the box wasnt working, she would have rectified this. 
She said she had to take out a new policy two months before this one was due to expire and 
missed out on an additional one years no claims bonus (NCB) as a result. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said that Mulsanne 
had done enough to make Miss D aware of the fact that it wasnt receiving any driving data 
and had given her seven days notice, as per its terms and conditions, before proceeding to 
cancel the policy. 
Miss D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She reiterated that the 
information shed received from Mulsanne was contradictory and that if she thought the box 
wasnt working, she would have reinstalled it. 
The matter was then passed to me to decide. Before I proceeded to issue my decision, I 
asked for some further information from both parties including an email Miss D said shed 
sent to the broker in November 2022 and also a confirmation from Mulsanne as to whether 
this was recorded as a cancellation by Miss D rather than by Mulsanne. It confirmed this was 
recorded as a cancellation by Miss D. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment for Miss D. I explain below why I arrived at this decision.
The policy documents say that there must be an active telematics device in the car during 
the term of the policy. If that is not the case this will be treated as a cancellation request and 
seven days notice will be given in writing before the policy is cancelled. The terms also say 
that if there is a request to reset the telematics device this must be also done within seven 
days of notification. If not, this will again be treated as a cancellation request and the policy 
will be cancelled with seven days notice.
 
Miss D received letters from Mulsanne on 23 November, 23 December 2022 and 22 January 
2023 informing her of her driving score being low. She said she assumed these letters 
meant that the black box was working. She says she also received texts and emails on 25 
and 26 November 2022, informing her that Mulsanne was receiving no data from her box. 
She says she then removed and reinstalled the box. She also called Mulsanne on 26 
November, a Saturday, but its offices were closed so she emailed Mulsanne on the same 
day to say the blue light on the box was on. In her email she said she would call again on the 
Monday. Mulsanne says this email would have bounced back or sent an undeliverable 
response.
On 9 January 2023 Miss D received an email informing her that her box wasnt transmitting 
data and that she had seven days to rectify this otherwise her policy would be cancelled. 
Mulsanne said this was followed up with a text on 10 January 2023. Miss D says she 
unplugged the box and plugged it in again and the blue light came on. 
I appreciate Miss D says that Mulsanne provided conflicting information and I think it did to a 
degree. It told Miss D it wasnt receiving any data on 25 and 26 November 2022 and then on 
23 December 2022 it sent her a letter regarding her driving score, which suggested it was 
receiving data. Mulsanne said the driving score letters go out automatically, but I can see 
why this would be confusing for the policy holder. 
But, despite the confusion, in these specific circumstances, I dont think Mulsanne was 
acting outside its terms and conditions when it cancelled the policy. Mulsanne wrote to 
Miss D on 9 January 2023 to say it wasnt receiving data. The last letter Miss D had received 
at that point about her driving score was in December 2022 which predated this letter. So, 
based on the information Miss D had in early January 2023, her score was low in December 
2023 which could have led her to assume the box was working at that time, but by January 
2023 this was no longer the case. I appreciate Miss D said that Mulsanne told her that the 
box stopped working in November 2022, but she didnt find this out until she called on 30 
January 2023. I also appreciate that a further driving score letter was sent out on 22 January 2023, and though this was by no means ideal, by that point Mulsanne had already cancelled 
the policy. 
 
Even if the box stopped transmitting data in November 2022, I think the crucial date here is 9 
January 2023. At that point Miss D was given seven days to reinstall the box and thereby 
prevent the cancellation. Miss D says that her box had a blue light which was on and so she 
believed this meant that it was working. She says she pulled out the plug and plugged it in 
again and the blue light came on again. I fully understand why Miss D would think the box 
was working if the light was on, but Mulsannes letter says that in order to check whether the 
box was installed correctly or not, Miss D would have had to check on its online application 
and call Mulsanne if she had further questions. It didnt say that the light coming on was 
enough. Miss D didnt say that she checked the application or that she called over those 
seven days, and I think if those further actions had been taken, it is more likely than not that 
Mulsanne would have clarified that the box was still not transmitting data and explained to 
Miss D how to rectify this. And that way the cancellation could have been avoided. 
Mulsanne wrote to Miss D on 24 January 2023 to let her know the policy was cancelled. 
Though Miss D said she didnt open that email until 28 January, together with an email dated 
16 January (she said to us it was dated 16 February but as she read it in January, I assumed 
this was a typo) advising her of the charges, she confirmed that she had received it. So, I 
think Mulsanne did enough to make her aware of the cancellation.  
In summary, bearing in mind that Miss D said she received the 9 January 2023 letter I think 
Mulsanne did enough to make her aware there was an issue with the box, and it would 
proceed to cancel the policy. And in doing so it was acting within its terms and conditions. I 
think Mulsannes actions were, on the whole, fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman