DRN-4508549
The complaint
Mr N, who is represented by a claims management company, complains Revolut Ltd didnt 
do enough to protect him when he was the victim of a fraud.
What happened
Mr N opened a Revolut account in June 2019, around the time he came to the UK. He has 
accounts elsewhere too.
In April 2022 Mr N says he started chatting to a person he met on a dating app. He says they 
explained that theyd made money investing in cryptocurrency shortly after they started 
chatting. Mr N says he asked for more details and, as a result, set up an account on what 
hed been told was a trading platform with a view to trading cryptocurrency. Mr N says the 
trading platform appeared to be professional so he decided to go ahead believing he could 
make a lot of money. Mr N was, in fact, talking to a scammer.
Between 21 and 27 April 2022 Mr N made nineteen payments to six different beneficiaries 
totalling £18,375.48 from an account he has elsewhere in relation to this first scam. He says 
he was told he was sending money to people who sold cryptocurrency and then told to 
transfer the cryptocurrency he had bought to the trading platform where hed set up an 
account. None of these payments between 21 and 27 April were made from Mr Ns Revolut 
account, nor were they funded from his Revolut account. He says he took out a loan to help 
fund some of these transfers  and later on took borrowed money from friends and 
elsewhere  and that he was unable to buy cryptocurrency from at least one of the banks 
who he had an account with as they were very strict with cryptocurrency.
Between 10 and 14 May 2022 Mr N made seven payments from his Revolut account in 
relation to this first scam.
Mr N says he started to get worried that he might have been scammed when he couldnt 
withdraw money from the account hed set up on the trading platform. He says he was told 
hed need to pay a large fee in order to do so. He says the person hed met on the dating 
app told him that he needed a loan too  which Mr N says he helped with  and that he was 
also worried hed been scammed. Shortly after this, when all communication ceased, Mr N 
realised hed been scammed.
Mr N says he started talking to another person  a female this time  on social media who 
said that theyd made a lot of money trading after he realised hed been scammed. He says 
he started talking to them because he was down as a result of being scammed. He was, in 
fact, talking to a second scammer.
Between 18 and 30 May 2022 Mr N made nine payments totalling £12,688 from his Revolut 
account in relation to this second scam.
Mr N contacted Revolut, amongst others, to say that it hadnt done enough to protect him 
once hed realised hed been scammed. He then complained to us about Revoluts response 
and the response of one of the other businesses with whom he has an account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint and said that they didnt think that it 
should be upheld.
Revolut accepted our investigators recommendations. Mr N didnt. He said that Revolut had 
missed an opportunity to prevent him making a loss. As Mr N didnt agree, his complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision. And was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that what had and hadnt happened wasnt entirely clear when Mr N first 
reported the fact that hed been scammed to Revolut. Thats because Mr Ns report 
suggested hed been scammed once when in fact hes been scammed twice. His report, as 
a result, talked about meeting a man on a dating website and speaking to a woman on social 
media and being scammed. In fact, he fell victim to two scams  the first scammer was 
someone he met on a dating website and the second scammer was someone he was 
speaking to on social media. This complaint involves both scams. I say that because Im 
satisfied that Mr N made seven faster payments totalling £7,533 between 10 and 14 May 
2022 from his Revolut account in relation to the first scam. And nine card payments totalling 
£12,688 between 18 and 30 May 2022 from his Revolut account in relation to the second 
scam.
Im satisfied that Mr N started talking to the second scammer no later than 19 May 2022. 
Thats because Ive seen the social media messages they exchanged. And Ive seen the 
second scammer, for example, told Mr N that she could guarantee him $40,000 to $45,000 
profit on an investment of $5,500 and $1 million within a month with an investment of 
$100,000. More importantly, Im satisfied that Mr N had just discovered that hed been 
scammed when he started talking to the second scammer  he wanted to make his losses 
back  yet all he appeared to do by way of checks was ask the second scammer are you 
also a scammer?.
Im satisfied that the payments Mr N made in relation to the first scam werent sufficiently 
unusual for Revolut to have intervened. So, I agree that Revolut doesnt need to refund any 
of those payments. In other words, the faster payments.Our investigator has set out in considerable detail the numerous red flags that should have 
made Mr N realise that neither of the scams they feel for were genuine investments. Im not 
going to repeat them here, other than to say that I agree Mr N could and should have done a 
lot more to satisfy himself that this wasnt a scam. In the circumstances, I agree with our 
investigator, given that Revolut did also warn Mr N a number of times that the payments he 
was making in relation to the second scam might be scams, that it wouldnt be fair to expect 
Revolut to refund the card payments either. I agree too that a chargeback wouldnt have 
succeeded.
Given everything Ive just said, I agree that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I appreciate 
that this will be hugely disappointing for Mr N  hes lost a lot of money and has taken on a 
considerable amount of debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman