DRN-2335102
The complaint
Ms R complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt make it clear that a £20 
arrangement fee would not be refundable if the policy was cancelled.
What happened
Ms R says no information was provided about the £20 arrangement fee and felt the wording 
online had been changed since she took out the policy. She said she reads things 
thoroughly and doesnt feel that the policy documentation, or the information online, clearly 
sets out the arrangement fee. In addition, Ms R says she didnt receive the policy 
documentation in the post until around 44 days after she took out the policy, by which point it 
was too late to cancel.
Hastings says the fees it charges are disclosed at the point of sale, online and within the 
policy documents. It didnt agree that Ms R hadnt been informed of the fee and said the 
correct fees had been retained following cancellation, as per the terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the policy documentation did 
clearly mention the £20 arrangement and that it was non-refundable. And she didnt think the 
delay in receiving the policy documents meant Hastings should refund the fee.
As Ms R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R had a motor insurance policy through Hastings which was cancelled after she sold her 
vehicle. The £20 administration fee wasnt dependent on cancellation but rather an amount 
included within the premium and was non-refundable. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) require Hastings to inform Ms R with information on the nature of the remuneration 
received, which includes administration and cancellation fees.  
Hastings welcome letter sets out a summary of the cover, including fees. It states the fees 
are for its services, that each fee must be paid at the time the transaction is made and is 
non-refundable. The first fee on the list is £20, for arranging and renewing cover for each car 
on the policy. There is also information within the quote on the website detailing a £20 
arrangement fee included within the price.
Ive considered whether I think Hastings informed Ms R of the fee before she became liable 
to pay it  which wouldve been when the policy was paid for online when she took it out. 
Having done so, Im satisfied it did inform her and I wont be asking Hastings to refund this.
I accept the £20 arrangement fee is made clear as part of the pre-purchase information on 
the website, as it is listed as one of six bullet points. It states that the £20 fee is included 
within the premium and is non-refundable. Ms R says this wording has since been changed 
and wasnt available to her. On balance, weighing what both parties have sent Im satisfied 
the nature of the fee was made clear.
The welcome letter, in my view, is clear, fair and not misleading on the £20 fee. Ms R says 
this wasnt received until around a month after the policy was taken out, but I note its dated 
before the policy started. Even if, in this case, the welcome letter was delayed, the fees were 
clearly set out online at the time of purchase. 
In summary, I dont agree that Hastings treated Ms R unfairly by retaining the arrangement 
fee, as I think the fees were made clear to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman