DRN-2162457
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Nationwide Building Society won't make a payment to her under its 
"Recommend a Friend" scheme.
What happened
Nationwide runs a scheme by which existing customers can introduce new customers to 
Nationwide. Subject to certain conditions being met, each account holder receives a 
payment of £100. I'll discuss those conditions - and whether they were met - in more detail 
below.
Mrs O and her husband held a joint account with Nationwide. As an existing customer, she 
referred her husband under the scheme, and he applied successfully to open a sole account. 
At the same time, he referred her and she too applied to open a sole account, although 
that's not directly relevant to this complaint.
Mrs O accepted that her husband wouldn't qualify for a payment in his capacity as a 
recommended friend. She considered however that she met the necessary criteria as a 
"recommender" and should therefore receive a payment of £100. Nationwide said, in 
summary, that because Mrs O's husband didn't qualify for the payment, she hadn't herself 
made an eligible recommendation and so didn't qualify for a payment either.
Mrs O referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
took the view that the terms of Nationwide's offer didn't make it sufficiently clear that Mrs O 
would not be eligible as a recommender and thought that Nationwide should therefore pay 
her the £100 she was expecting from introducing her husband. Nationwide didn't accept the 
investigator's recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case. I did that 
and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from the investigator, issued a 
provisional decision. I set out below my reasons for concluding, provisionally, that 
Nationwide didnt have to make a payment under the scheme:
Nationwide's "Recommend a Friend" scheme is, like other similar schemes, intended mainly 
to encourage new customers to open accounts, not to incentivise existing customers to open 
more accounts. Mrs O and her husband were existing joint account holders who had already 
benefited from the scheme. Of itself, however, that doesn't mean that Mrs O couldn't receive 
a payment for introducing her husband as a sole account holder. That depends to a large 
extent on the terms of the offer, rather than its commercial aims.
The terms of the offer set out the qualifications and steps that the recommender and 
recommended friend needed to take in order to receive a payment.
The terms included (at sections 8 to 15) a section headed "Payment". Section 8 said that 
Nationwide would pay the recommender and recommended friend if all the conditions set out 
in sections 1 to 7 were met. They also said (at sections 2 and 10) that Nationwide would limit 
the number of payments it made to each recommender to "... the first 5 eligible 
recommendations they make in any one tax year".
Section 11 said that a recommended friend wouldn't be eligible to receive a payment if they 
had already received a payment under the offer. Mrs O's husband had received such a 
payment and so wasn't eligible to receive a further one as a recommended friend.
Nationwide said that the effect of section 10 wasn't just that Mrs O's husband couldn't 
receive a payment as a recommended friend, but that her recommendation wasn't an 
"eligible recommendation". Since section 10 said that payment would be made for the first five eligible recommendations, it followed that it wouldn't be made for recommendations that 
weren't eligible.
The terms didn't expressly define the phrase "eligible recommendations", but in my view it 
could only sensibly mean recommendations which met the qualifying criteria such that the 
recommended friend received a payment. The alternative interpretation is that any 
recommendation - even including those where the recommended friend's application was 
declined or they didn't operate the account as required - would lead to a payment to the 
recommender. Mrs O's husband was clearly not eligible to receive a payment, and in my 
view it follows that she hadn't made an eligible recommendation.
Neither Nationwide nor Mrs O responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances, Im not minded to change my conclusions from those I reached in my 
provisional decision. Since Mrs Os husband had previously received a payment as a 
recommended friend, he wasnt eligible to receive a second payment. And, since he wasnt 
eligible for a payment, it followed that she hadnt made an eligible recommendation, and so 
didnt qualify to receive a payment either.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society to take any further steps 
to resolve Mrs Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman