DRN-3701708
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid a significantly lower final bonus
on his with-profits pension than he expected.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B was quoted a transfer value of £111,820.98 which included a final
bonus of £35,738.44. Aviva received Mr Bs instructions about six weeks later in January
2020. Mr Bs funds were transferred in mid-February with a value of £98,670.51. The reason
given by Aviva was that final bonuses had been reviewed at the end of 2019 and been
recalculated once his transfer instructions had been received. This resulted in his final bonus
being reduced to £22,083.95.
Mr B raised a complaint and wanted Aviva to honour the previously quoted bonus rate.
Aviva apologised that the transfer had taken longer than their service standard of 10 working
days. They confirmed that even though the transfer was delayed, the transfer value was
based on the date on which instructions were received in January. So the value wasnt
affected by the delay. They paid Mr B £100 as an apology for the delay and calculated
interest loss of around £104 as he could have received his tax-free cash sooner.
With regards to the drop in final bonus they explained that bonuses werent guaranteed and
could change at any time. The final bonus was paid to ensure a consumer receives their full
asset share of the fund whilst its been invested. This means in some cases no final bonus is
paid or they are reduced.
The rates are not set on an individual policy basis and are the same for everyone who
commenced this investment during the same year as Mr B. If they increased Mr Bs asset
share by paying a higher bonus, this wouldnt treat other customers with the same
investment fairly.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. As
Mr B wanted a second opinion, his case was referred to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Bs complaint but made it clear that if additional 
information was provided by Aviva my decision could change.
Mr B accepted the provisional outcome. Aviva again did not respond.
Without further comments or information to consider I see no reason to depart from my 
original findings which  I set out again below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With-profits policies work differently to many other investments and based on the paperwork
Ive seen Aviva made it clear throughout that transfer values and the final bonus in particular
wouldnt be guaranteed. Aviva also informed Mr B, through his adviser, that the transfer
value would be recalculated once instructions to transfer were received.
It seems Mr B understands and accepts that values can fluctuate and bonuses werent
guaranteed, but he didnt expect the significant drop in final bonus over a matter of weeks.
The regulator requires policy providers to have and publish a document called Principles and
Practices of Financial Management (PPFM) which explains how it manages its with-profits
funds including the nature and extent of decisions it takes to manage the fund. And how it
applies discretion to treat customers fairly. Among other things, the PPFM sets out how
policy values are calculated.
The calculation and application of any bonus is a commercial decision for the product
provider. A commercial decision made by a financial business may have wider implications
and affect how the business operates and groups of customers or policyholders more
generally.
I understand it can be difficult for policyholders to satisfy themselves that they are receiving
what they are entitled to under the terms of their policies, including whether any final bonus
has been calculated correctly. The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
recognises that firms have a considerable amount of discretion about how they operate their
with-profits funds.
Aviva is accountable to the FCA for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund (in
accordance with its PPFM). Businesses are required to appoint a with-profits actuary and the
FCA provides rules and guidance on their duties. Aviva also has an independent With-
Profits Committee whose remit is to protect the interests of the with-profits policyholders and
ensure that they are treated fairly.
So I dont think a reduction in bonus means something automatically has gone wrong. And I
wouldnt expect to necessarily see detailed calculations on every case.
Having said that, the drop in bonus is nearly 40% and does seem high in this case and so
Ive asked Aviva for further information. Ive asked them when exactly the bonus rate
changed and by how much and when Mr Bs manual calculation was carried out. If the
bonus rate didnt change significantly at the review, then I asked Aviva to explain why the
bonus on Mr Bs quotes was so different to his actual bonus. I questioned how his asset
share could have changed by so much in five weeks.
I also queried whether, if the calculation at transfer was correct, whether its was possible
that the bonus rates in the quotes had been too high and if so why they couldnt have been
more accurate.
I asked Aviva to provide any evidence they could to support their answer to my questions. 
Very disappointingly, despite numerous requests, Aviva did not respond to my queries.
I appreciate its quite possible that bonus rates did significantly drop during the review or that
there are good reasons why the quoted bonus was so different to Mr Bs actual calculation.
And that the value Mr B received is correct. If this was the case I likely wouldnt uphold Mr
Bs complaint. However, based on the information I have at the minute Im not satisfied that
no mistakes were made here.
It's possible that Mr Bs bonus rates were quoted significantly too high without good reason
which unfairly raised his expectations. However, at the moment I cant even safely say thatthe new calculations were correct as no evidence to this regard has been provided. 
Aviva hasnt provided persuasive information to show Mr Bs new calculation was correct,
So I think its fair in the circumstances to ask Aviva to honour his previous bonus quote.
Putting things right
Aviva must pay Mr B the difference between his last quoted bonus (£35,738.44)
and the bonus he actually received (£22,083.95) which comes to £13,654.49.
Aviva should also pay 8% simple interest on this sum from the date Mr B funds were
transferred to the date of my final decision to compensate Mr B for being deprived of these
funds during this time.
For completion, Id like to note that Im satisfied that the compensation Aviva paid Mr B
(£100 plus £104 in interest) in relation to the transfer delays they caused is reasonable.
The compensation amount must be paid to Mr B within 28 days of the date Aviva receives 
notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 28 day period, that it takes Aviva to pay 
Mr B.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr B 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman