DRN-1585480
 
Complaint
Mr T complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc trading as M&S Bank failed to 
comply with his request not to pay any items which would cause him to exceed the credit 
limit on his card. 
Background
Mr T had a credit card account with M&S Bank. He says he contacted M&S Bank around the 
start of 2018 and told it that it must never pay any items on his account which would cause 
him to exceed the credit limit. He cant remember the exact date when he did this but he 
says M&S Bank told him it would comply with his instruction. But, it didnt do that.
He says that in June 2018 M&S Bank paid items from his account which caused the limit to 
be exceeded. He complained to M&S Bank at that time and repeated his instruction. He also 
told M&S Bank he expected it to contact him if there was any unusual activity on his account 
to check if it was authorised. But, Mr T says that in December 2018, January 2019 and 
February 2019 M&S Bank again permitted items to be paid from his account which allowed 
the credit limit to be exceeded. He says these items were wrongly applied to his account by 
an App hed given his card details to.
Mr T says he cannot understand why M&S Bank has ignored his very clear instruction. He 
says there has been a flagrant lack of care and responsibility by M&S Bank. So he stopped 
making his monthly payments to the card. He says he did this in an effort to get M&S Bank 
to listen to what he was saying and to do something about it. He also complained to M&S 
Bank.
M&S Bank investigated his complaint. It says it didnt have a record of the call he says he 
made around the start of 2018. But, it says it explained to him in June 2018 that it couldnt 
comply with his instruction to never pay items which would cause the account to exceed the 
credit limit. It says this is a business decision and it prevents customers from being 
embarrassed. Its referred to telephone conversations and letters its sent to Mr T which 
repeated this information.
When Mr T initially complained to M&S Bank it accepted that it hadnt phoned him back after 
promising to do so. It offered to pay him £75 for poor service by way of compensation.
After Mr T stopped making his monthly payments M&S Bank contacted him to discuss the 
matter further. But, it said itd already told him it couldnt comply with his instruction not to 
pay items which would take him over his credit limit. It also said that he should contact it to 
discuss his monthly payments since extra interest and charges were payable. It suggested 
he should contact its Account Support team to discuss his account. And, as a goodwill 
gesture it said it would refund £84 for charges thatd been applied to the account.
Mr T was dissatisfied with this response and so he complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. He said our service couldnt require M&S Bank to change its systems. And, the amount by which M&S Bank permitted its customers to exceed 
the agreed credit limit was a matter for its own commercial judgement. He said Mr T had 
given his card details to the App. He hadnt disputed that services had been provided for 
these payments. And, it was his responsibility to have the card details removed if he no 
longer wanted his card to be debited.
Our investigator also thought M&S Bank had treated Mr T positively and sympathetically 
when hed decided to stop making monthly payments. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues Mr T has raised. So, Ill consider each separately:
His instruction not to pay items which cause the limit to be exceeded
I can see Mr T says he first gave this instruction at the start of 2018 and M&S Bank agreed 
to comply. He says he raised it again in June 2018 after payments had been taken from his 
account which caused the limit to be exceeded.
Ive listened carefully to the call which Mr T had with M&S Bank in June 2018. During the call 
M&S Bank makes it clear to Mr T that asking it to never allow him to go over his credit limit is 
not an option that it can offer him. For that reason, a transaction could be authorised which 
caused the credit limit to be exceeded. This information is repeated in the letter M&S Bank 
sent Mr T on 8 July 2018. And I can see hes been given the same information each time 
hes contacted M&S Bank subsequently.
Mr T says he doesnt understand why M&S Bank cant comply with his instruction. But, I 
agree with our investigator. Its not for this service to tell M&S Bank how its systems and 
processes should operate. Nor, in these circumstances, can we require it to do something 
for Mr T which it doesnt offer as part of its service. Wed expect M&S Bank to have informed 
Mr T it cannot comply with his instruction. And, I can see its done that on a number of 
occasions since June 2018. 
Allowing him to exceed his credit limit
Ive thought about what Mr T has said concerning the terms and conditions. He says they 
dont make it clear that the limit can be exceeded. M&S Bank says it sometimes allows 
customers to exceed the limit to avoid embarrassment. Mr T has told them hes not 
concerned about this.
Having looked at the terms and conditions for the account, I can see they state that the 
customer shouldnt exceed the credit limit. But, they also say that if the limit is exceeded a 
fee will be applied to the account. So, the terms and conditions do envisage situations where 
the credit limit will be exceeded. 
The amount by which the credit limit can be exceeded is a matter for M&S Bank. It says it 
exercises its own commercial judgement concerning this and takes a number of factors into 
account before allowing the limit to be exceeded on any occasion.  Wed expect M&S Bank to act fairly and responsibly before permitting the credit limit to be 
exceeded. It says that it takes account of a number of factors, such as the payment history 
on the account, before permitting the credit limit to be exceeded. By taking account of these 
factors M&S Bank says its making risk based decisions. It had already told Mr T that it 
couldnt comply with his instruction not to exceed the credit limit. So, that wasnt one of the 
factors it considered. 
I can see that the credit limit excesses which M&S Bank permitted were within the range 
which it considered to be an acceptable risk. So, on balance, I think it was acting fairly and 
responsibly when it permitted the credit limit excesses.
The transactions that caused the limit to be exceeded
When Mr T complained to M&S Bank in June 2018 a debit had been made for a service 
which was paid for through an App. Mr Ts wife was an additional cardholder on the account 
and it was her card details thatd been registered with the App when she was abroad. But, 
after she returned to the UK a member of the family had continued to use the App. Even 
though the family members card details had also been registered, the App still took the 
payment from Mr Ts account.
Mr T didnt dispute that services had been provided. But, he said the App shouldve debited 
a different card. I can see at that time, Mr Ts wifes card was stopped and a new card was 
issued. This meant that the App couldnt continue to debit her card. 
When Mr T spoke to M&S Bank in June he said hed expect to be contacted about 
transactions such as this because it was unusual activity and it was taking place overseas. 
But, I can see he was told that whilst overseas transactions were monitored, not all of these 
would cause a fraud alert to be raised. So, he wouldnt be contacted each time there was an 
overseas transaction on his account unless it was deemed to be unusual activity.
In December 2018, January 2019 and February 2019 further payments were taken from Mr 
Ts account. It appears these payments were taken by an App which Mr T had used when he 
was overseas. This was a different App to the one his wifes card had been registered with. 
But, he hadnt removed his card details from the App. The App continued to be used by a 
member of his family. But, Mr T said the payments shouldve been taken from other cards 
that were registered on the App.
M&S Bank spoke to Mr T in December 2018. Ive listened carefully to the calls. Mr T is told 
again that M&S Bank cant comply with his instruction not to exceed the credit limit. Mr T 
says that if the system doesnt allow this then he should be contacted by mobile before the 
payment is taken. 
Mr T was registered for mobile alerts. So, he wouldve been contacted by mobile if there was 
suspected fraudulent activity on his account. But the payments in December 2018, January 
2019 and February 2019 didnt trigger any fraud alerts. And, it is the case that Mr T had a 
previous transaction in January 2018 for a service using this App which he hadnt disputed. 
He also didnt dispute that services had been provided for the payments thatd been made. 
Ive also thought about what Mr T says about the other cards that shouldve been selected 
by the App to take payment from. But, his card details were still registered with the App. He 
hadnt removed his card details. And, he knew that when a different App that his wifes card 
was registered with had taken payments from his account in June 2018, theyd cancelled the 
card to prevent it happening again. He didnt cancel his card until February 2019.When listening to the calls made in December 2018, Ive considered whether M&S Bank 
shouldve advised Mr T to cancel his card at that time. If itd done that then the payments in 
January 2019 and February 2019 wouldnt have been taken. But, during the calls, Mr T didnt 
say that the payment in December was fraudulent or that he was unaware of who had 
obtained the services thatd been provided for the payment. His focus was about M&S Bank 
not complying with his instruction never to pay items which would exceed the limit. So, 
advising him to cancel the card wouldnt have changed the position regarding the credit limit 
being exceeded.
M&S Bank did discuss with him, in February 2019, the possibility of trying to get the 
payments refunded using the chargeback scheme. But, because his card was registered 
with the App and the services had been provided it wasnt able to progress a claim under 
that scheme.
Mr T decided to stop making monthly payments to his account. I can see that M&S Bank 
refunded some of the charges thatve been applied to his account and provided him with a 
named contact to speak to. In these circumstances Id expect M&S Bank to treat Mr T 
positively and sympathetically when discussing a repayment plan with him.
So, whilst I know Mr T feels strongly about this matter, I think M&S Bank has acted fairly and 
reasonably. It also offered to pay him £75 for poor service when it didnt return phone calls. I 
dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Marks and Spencer 
Financial Services plc trading as M&S Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman