DRN-4271430
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined his claim for accidental damage to his 
bike.
What happened
Mr P had insurance which covered his bike for accidental damage, underwritten by AWP. He 
noticed damage on part of the bike frame and claimed under the policy. Mr P said he 
mustve kicked the mudguard when riding or turning a corner.
Mr P provided a supporting statement from the bike supplier saying the damage had 
weakened the bike frame and it was beyond economical repair. He also provided a 
statement from his cycling companion on the day the damage happened confirming Mr P 
commented on kicking his mudguard accidentally during the ride. The riding companion said 
thered been comment on the day about how well the mudguards were fitted.
AWP declined the claim because it said the damage looked like wear and tear from the 
mudguard rubbing on the frame, so it didnt meet the definition of accidental damage. 
Mr P complained to AWP. He said hed fitted the mudguards correctly and the damage was 
caused after he accidentally kicked one while cornering.
AWP sent Mr P its final response declining his claim. It included photo evidence that the 
same mudguards Mr P fitted caused similar arc-shaped damage when incorrectly fitted, and 
a statement from a carbon bike specialist supporting AWPs view.
Our investigator thought the evidence showed a more substantial impact than paint being 
rubbed away by an ill-fitting mudguard. She didnt think AWP had shown that the policy 
exclusions applied, so she thought AWP had unfairly declined Mr Ps claim. Our investigator 
recommended that AWP reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
AWP didnt agree. It provided evidence of what impact damage to a carbon frame looked like 
versus the damage caused by mudguards rubbing. AWP maintained that the policy didnt 
provide cover for the circumstances Mr P described.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The issue is that AWP declined Mr Ps claim under his policy for what he described as 
accidental damage to his bike.
The policy defines accident/accidental as:
A sudden or unexpected crash, fall or impact whilst using or transporting your pedal cycle 
which causes damage to you and/or your pedal cycle during the period of insurance.
AWP declined the claim as follows:
From the photographs and description you have given us, we have concluded that the 
damage to the downtube was not caused as a result of the crash and that the mudguards 
have simply not been fitted correctly, resulting in them rubbing through the paint of your 
new bicycle. Sadly, as explained above, we only cover damage that has occurred as a 
direct result from a crash or sudden impact.
The policy states that cover is not available if:
Your damage claim does not involve accidental damage to the pedal cycle.
So, for me to conclude that AWP unfairly declined Mr Ps claim, Id need to see evidence 
that shows, more likely than not, that he suffered a loss which meets the policy definition of 
accidental damage.
Looking at the claim form Mr P completed, he describes the circumstances of his claim. Mr P 
said he noticed the damage while washing his bike a week after his ride. He recorded that 
he mustve, accidently kicked or knocked my mudguard as I have turned or cornered I don't 
know.
Mr Ps description of the damage was, The frame underneath has a massive gouge in it 
from plastic mudguard rubbing on carbon.
In later evidence Mr P amended his recollection of the date of his ride, being aware of 
kicking the mudguard while turning, the circumstances of noticing the damage and whether 
he was alone or accompanied.
Im less concerned about the fact that his evidence changed, but what it does tell me is that 
Mr P didnt know exactly how the damage happened. If his bike was accidentally damaged, 
hed need to be aware of the unexpected crash, fall or impact happening. As Mr P was only 
really able to make assumptions about how the damaged happened, Im minded to agree 
with AWP that he hasnt demonstrated he suffered an insured loss.
Ive considered Mr Ps statement that he didnt fit his mudguards incorrectly. AWPs photos 
show the difference between impact damage and abrasion damage to a carbon frame. The 
damage caused by incorrectly fitted mudguards results in an arc-shaped abrasion. Mr Ps 
bike has arc-shaped damage which is greater in the middle and becomes less significant 
towards the edges, reflective of an abrasion which matches the shape of damage caused by 
a mudguard.
Mr P doesnt deny that his mudguard caused the damage, but he said it was from a single 
impact. As Ive said above, if a single impact caused the damage such that his bike became 
unsafe to ride, Mr P wouldve needed to identify the specific incident to claim under the 
policy. The evidence doesnt show that he has done that.Overall, the evidence as it stands suggests that Mr P was unaware of when his bike was 
damaged and its more likely than not that it was caused by his mudguard rubbing the frame. 
The evidence he provided doesnt show that he suffered an insured loss, therefore, Im 
minded to accept that AWP fairly declined the claim for the reason it gave and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.  
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr P was disappointed with my provisional decision and clarified a few matters. He said the 
mudguards arent meant to be permanent fixtures and they werent on the bike for a long 
time. So Mr P thinks I misunderstood how long they couldve rubbed the bike frame. He also 
related his ability to fit the mudguards to his career skills and clarified his riding companions 
skills.
AWP didnt make any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the same reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision. That said, Ill respond to his recent comments.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr P is sufficiently skilled to fit and remove the mudguards in 
line with the manufacturers instructions. The issue here is that he cant say with any 
certainty what happened or when. Mr Ps evidence gives differing accounts of when the 
damage mightve happened, and he only thinks he mustve accidentally kicked the 
mudguard. 
AWP declined the claim because the damage was caused by the mudguard rubbing on the 
frame, rather than as a direct result of a crash or sudden impact. While Mr P is sure he didnt 
fit the mudguard incorrectly, AWPs evidence indicates that it wasnt in the correct place, 
therefore allowing the abrasion to occur. AWPs evidence is supported by the testing it did of 
how the arc abrasion formed and an independent carbon specialist identified it as a 
mudguard issue. But Mr P hasnt been able to provide evidence that his bike was damaged 
in an accident, in line with the policy definition of accidental damage.
I must reach my decision based on the evidence available, and Im satisfied that AWP fairly 
declined the claim for the reason it gave and in line with the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman