DRN-2882397
The complaint
Miss A complains that One Insurance Limited under-valued her car when she claimed on her 
motor insurance policy. Miss A also complains about the customer service she received from 
One Insurance Limited.
What happened
In September 2020, Miss A was involved in a collision and her car was damaged. Her car 
was taken to a garage where it was assessed to decide whether it would be economical to 
repair it. 
Miss A says she spent a lot of time contacting One Insurance about her car. She says she 
also received conflicting information from One Insurance about when it would deem the car 
to be a total loss or when it would decide to repair it.
One Insurance initially valued Miss As car at £10,000. Miss A complained about this as she 
thought it was too low. One Insurance then checked two valuation guides and provided Miss 
A with a valuation of £11,047.50  which was an average of the two guide prices. 
Miss A remained unhappy with this valuation. She did her own research online and didnt 
find that shed be able to replace her car for the same make, model, age and mileage for the 
settlement figure One Insurance had offered her. 
One Insurance looked into Miss As complaint. It remained of the opinion that its offer of 
£11,047.50 was a fair one, but it agreed the service it had provided hadnt always been 
good, and so it offered her £250 to say sorry.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss A too. She initially thought the valuation provided 
by One Insurance was a fair one  she used the motor trade valuation guides to come to her 
opinion. She also found that the offer of £250 was a fair based on the circumstances. 
However, Miss A responded to our investigator and provided some further advertisements 
for similar vehicles. Our investigator looked into things again and thought One Insurance 
should increase its offer to £11,436. She thought that one of the valuation guides was 
significantly lower than the other two, and so she felt One Insurance should increase its offer 
to an average of the higher two valuations.
One Insurance didnt agree. It said that the lower valuation wasnt so out of line with the 
other two that it shouldnt be considered. 
Because One Insurance didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that it isnt my role to value Miss As car. What I 
need to do is consider whether One Insurance offered to settle the claim in a fair and 
reasonable way, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Its generally accepted that, unless otherwise stated in the policy documents, that an insurer 
will pay the pre-accident market value of a car where the car is deemed a total loss. I dont 
find this to be unfair or unreasonable. 
Miss As policy says, settlement payment based on the cost of replacing your car at the time 
of the loss or damage, taking into account its make, model, age, mileage and circumstances 
of its purchase by you. This shall not exceed the estimate of value that you last gave to us. 
When Miss A made the decision to write off her car (One Insurance had provided her with 
other options to settle the claim), One Insurance agreed to pay her what it thought was the 
fair market value for the car which was £11,047.50.
In assessing what we consider to be market value, we obtain valuations from motor trade 
guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations as well as the cars 
make, model and other specifications. So, we generally find them to be more reliable than 
other resources such as adverts. We also take all other available evidence into account, for 
example, engineers reports.
I fully understand Miss As frustration with the situation shes in as shes found several 
examples of cars similar to her car that are advertised for sale at a higher price. But these 
prices are an offer to sell. The offers reflect that a consumer will want to negotiate the price 
at the time of purchase. This is not necessarily the price that will be obtained. So, these 
advertised sale prices can often be misleading when assessing the market value of a car.
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Miss As car at the time of the incident 
and they produced the following valuations: £10,400 (guide one), £11,350 (guide two) and 
£11,522 (guide three).
Often where one guide is significantly out of line with (or different to) the others the accepted 
practice is to disregard it. One Insurance doesnt think that the lower valuation is so much 
lower that it should be disregarded. Its said that if it were between £2,000-£3,000 less than 
the other guide prices then it would likely accept this. But I disagree. The lower value is 
around £1,000 less than the other two guides. In my opinion, this is a significant amount, 
especially when thinking about the overall value of the car. When also considering the 
advertisements Miss A has provided for vehicles similar to hers, I think the lower valuation is 
out of line with what she would likely pay to replace her car. So, its for this reason that I 
think the lower valuation from guide one should be discounted. 
Guides two and three give an average valuation of £11,436. Based on what I've seen on this 
case, I think this would be a fairer pre-accident valuation for Miss As vehicle.
Ive looked at the complaint notes provided to me by One Insurance and Ive also taken on 
board the comments provided to me by Miss A relating to the level of service she received 
during the claims process. Its clear that Miss A has spent a lot of time contacting One 
Insurance about what was happening with her claim and her car. One Insurance have 
accepted they could have provided a better service and offered Miss A £250 to say sorry. I appreciate Miss A thinks this offer is too low, given the number of hours shes spent trying 
to resolve things, and the amount One Insurance has offered is less than what she would 
have earned. I wouldnt look to compensate Miss A for the amount she would have earned, 
but instead Ive looked at the impact One Insurances actions has had on Miss A. I think its 
reasonable to assume that some time would need to be spent when communicating with a 
business about a claim. But I can see that shes spent more time than what I would have 
reasonably expected, and shes also been given inconsistent information from One 
Insurance which is likely to have been frustrating and confusing. Taking all this into account, 
I think One Insurances offer of £250 is fair.  So, I wont be asking One Insurance to pay 
anything else in relation to the service Miss A received.
Putting things right
One Insurance has said that it hasnt yet paid any settlement amount to Miss A. For this 
reason, I think One Insurance should now do the following to put things right for Miss A:
- pay Miss A a total of £11,436 to settle the claim  it can deduct excess from this 
amount and any payments it has already made to her to settle the claim.
- pay Miss A 8% simple annual interest on the full settlement amount, calculated from 
the date Miss A accepted this settlement until the date this complaint is settled. *
- if it hasnt done so already, pay Miss A the £250 it offered to pay her, to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience it caused when handling her claim.
*If One Insurance consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss A how much they have taken off, and give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint. I now order One Insurance 
Limited to put things right for Miss A by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman