DRN-1888556
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled the 
claim he made on his leisure home insurance policy. 
For the purposes of this decision, all references to AIG includes its appointed agents. 
What happened
Mr L raised a claim with AIG, following an escape of water within his static caravan. AIG 
agreed to arrange a preliminary inspection, which took place in mid-May 2019. This found 
that a faulty pipe connected to the boiler had leaked underneath the caravans flooring, 
which had caused damage to the floor covering and kitchen units. 
AIG accepted the claim under the policy terms and told Mr L that it would arrange repairs. In 
the meantime, it asked Mr L to lift the carpet  because exposing the floor could help 
mitigate the loss caused by the leak. However, Mr L did not feel it was appropriate to ask 
him to do this. He argued that it meant him risking injury, because he would have to cut the 
carpet to remove it. Also, that he was not trained to do such work and it was dangerous 
when he didnt know if there were any electrical cables underneath. 
In June 2019, AIG explained to Mr L that he had a responsibility to minimise the loss if 
possible, according to the terms of the policy. It told Mr L he could arrange a local contactor 
of his choice to lift the carpets so that he didnt have to do so himself, and it would cover the 
cost providing it was reasonable. 
Following this, Mr L complained to AIG. He explained that hed employed a heating engineer 
who repaired the leaking pipe  but said again how dissatisfied he was with being asked to 
remove the carpet himself. At this point, Mr L said he wanted written instruction from AIG 
telling him to organise a contractor to start the repairs, and indicated that he would be open 
to a cash settlement of the claim. 
AIG responded to the complaint at the end of July 2019, stating that it hadnt done anything 
wrong by asking Mr L to mitigate the loss, as this was a requirement of the cover. It told Mr L 
it was awaiting quotes from him for the cost of removing the carpet, because he hadnt 
confirmed whether this had been done. And it explained that he had the option of cash 
settling the whole claim, as long as the costs quoted were reasonable.  
Following this, AIG sent letters to Mr L requesting an update on the quotes for repair. It said 
it would await these so that a cash settlement could be considered. In October 2019, Mr L 
explained to AIG that hed brought the complaint to our service and wished for us to decide 
the matter. Meanwhile, he chose not to provide quotes or indications of the cost of the repair 
work that was needed. 
By the end of 2019, there had been no further development in the claim in respect of the 
repairs. And Mr L expressed that this lack of progress had rendered the damage flooring and 
kitchen units irreparable, especially because the carpet had not been lifted. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that AIG hadnt acted unfairly. 
She found it reasonable to ask Mr L to either lift the carpet or employ a professional to do so. 
So, by not helping to minimise the loss, Mr L could be held liable for any increased costs that 
are the result of any deterioration. Therefore, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L does not agree. He maintains that AIG should be liable for any worsening of the 
caravans condition and its contents, in light of it being unreasonable to ask him to expose 
the flooring. And submits that the claim should be settled to the value of a new caravan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its common ground between both parties that the policy provides cover for loss of or 
damage to the caravan and its contents caused by an escape of water from the boiler. 
Wheres its not in dispute that the claim ought to be accepted, whats left for me to decide is 
whether AIG has so far fairly attempted to settle it. 
According to the policy terms, if the caravan could be repaired economically, AIG could pay 
the cost of work carried out to repair or replace the damaged parts. Conversely, if it were to 
be deemed a total loss, AIG may replace the caravan with a new one. Or, cash settle based 
on the caravans market value at the time of loss. In other words, AIG had the right to 
choose the means of settlement depending on what would be more cost-effective. 
The preliminary report recommended that repairs go ahead, at a reserve of approximately 
£7,000. It did not declare a total loss, because it assessed that the damage would cost 
around this much to put right  and this amount did not exceed the total value of the 
caravan. Therefore, AIG is in keeping within its right under the insurance contract to pay for 
the cost of repairs. Consequently, I cannot accept it as fair for AIG to be expected to settle 
the claim to the value of a replacement caravan. 
Its noted in the report that exposing the floor would help limit the loss. Amongst other things, 
it explains that removing the floor coverings could prevent the condition of the floor from 
worsening through gradual rotting. I see no compelling reason to doubt the evidential value 
of this assessment. For example, there is no contradictory opinion from a comparable 
industry professional. Therefore, Im satisfied that taking the measures described couldve 
limited the damage to the caravan. It follows that theres a reasonable chance that at least 
some of the deterioration that came as a result of not removing the carpet couldve been 
avoided.   
Mr L did not see it appropriate for him to lift or remove the carpets himself. I recognise why 
he may not have felt safe or comfortable in carrying out this work, not least for health and 
safety reasons. However, AIG offered to reimburse any reasonable cost paid to a 
professional to undergo this work. As I see it, this was a reasonable solution. It couldve 
helped mitigate the damage without the need for Mr L to risk carrying out the work himself 
and saved him from being out of pocket by paying someone. 
The terms of the contract stipulate that Mr L must Take all reasonable steps to minimise 
loss or damage in the event of a claim. In light of my findings, I conclude that what AIG put 
forward was a reasonable step  and, ultimately, Mr L didnt take it.  I recognise that Mr L didnt think that the claim could be fairly decided, based on his view 
that the contractual relationship between him and AIG has somewhat broken down. As such, 
hes chosen not to fully engage with AIG or its agents by arranging quotations. In order to 
reach an amicable settlement, AIG submits that confirmation of whether the carpet was 
exposed and estimations for the price of the overall repairs are needed. Its the absence of 
this, and/or the permission from Mr L to further look at the caravan, that caused the claim to 
reach a standstill.
Based on whats before me, its fair to say that the longer the caravan goes without repair 
naturally increases the likelihood of damage such as rot becoming progressively worse. AIG 
and its agents made Mr L aware of what measures to take during the initial inspection of the 
caravan. It then reiterated this instruction in subsequent letters, such as the one it sent 
shortly after the preliminary report was put together. And by his own admission, Mr L was 
alert to the risk that not removing the carpets could leave the floor underneath in a graver 
condition.  
Bearing this in mind, I must take into account that Mr L was aware of the need for mitigative 
work at an early stage, along with the consequences of not doing so. Even with cause for 
complaint, moving towards an agreed settlement will often still require cooperative action 
from the insured in a claim. Ultimately, had Mr L permitted what was needed  the claim 
couldve progressed. Moreover, the documentary evidence leads me to believe that AIG 
wouldve started repairs at an earlier stage, but for Mr L deciding not to comply with certain 
requests it made. 
For this reason, I cannot safely conclude that AIG has unnecessarily delayed this claim. In 
consideration of this and my findings, I do not find it fair or reasonable for AIG to be liable for 
any increase in the costs of repairs that have arisen as a direct consequence of the 
caravans deterioration since mid-May 2019.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman