DRN-1983662
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their decision to approve a consolidation loan 
in 2014.
What happened
In May 2014, Mr B applied for a loan with HSBC who he already held a current account and 
credit card account with. He applied for this loan to consolidate the debts he held at this 
time.
HSBC deferred Mr Bs initial application for £7,000 and agreed to approve a loan of £4,500 
on the agreement his overdraft facility on his current account was reduced from £2,000 to 
£250. His credit card limit was also reduced to £1000 at this time. The loan was taken out 
over 24 months with an agreed monthly repayment of £223.65. Mr B accepted, and the total 
loan amount was paid into his current account.
But, by late 2014 Mr B had become unable to meet the monthly repayments. This led to this 
loan and other accounts being defaulted.
Mr B wasnt happy that HSBC approved the loan, so he raised a complaint. He didnt think 
HSBC had approved the loan responsibly and had completed enough checks to ensure its 
affordability. He thought it was clear from his bank statements at the time that he was in 
financial difficulty and felt HSBC shouldve done more to help his financial situation rather 
than approve another form of credit which took him further into debit. 
He was also unhappy the entire loan amount was paid into his current account, which left 
him with a surplus after hed paid towards his overdraft and credit card. He wasnt happy 
HSBC told him this money was available to spend however he wished, and instead thought it 
shouldve been used to reduce the loan balance. So, he wanted HSBC to refund him the 
loan amount.
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. They thought theyd completed the relevant checks to 
ensure the loan was affordable. They also thought it was Mr Bs decision to take the full 
amount. So, they didnt think theyd acted irresponsibly by approving a loan that left Mr B 
with a surplus amount after the debts he wished to consolidate. Because of this, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr B remained unhappy, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought HSBC had 
completed checks that were proportionate to the loan Mr B was approved for. He explained 
theyd considered his income and expenditure and completed a credit check which didnt 
contain any information that wouldve raised concerns. He also thought HSBC had shown 
their consideration by deferring the initial loan for £7,000 and offering a second loan for 
£4,500 under the agreement Mr Bs other account limits would be reduced. 
He also didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly by paying the whole amount into Mr Bs current 
account, explaining this is the usual process when a loan is approved. So, he didnt think 
HSBC acted unreasonably and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt accept this view. He maintained that HSBC didnt complete checks that were 
proportionate and felt that, if theyd looked through his bank statements which they wouldve 
had available, theyd have seen he was in financial difficulty. He didnt think theyd 
considered other finance he had at the time and didnt believe theyd reviewed his credit file 
in enough depth. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the difficulties Mr B has experienced and the impact this complaint 
has had on him. Ive no doubt Mr B has been left worried and upset by the financial 
difficulties he's experienced. And I can appreciate how this wouldve been worsened by the 
addiction he was struggling with around the same time. I think its clear to see that Mr B 
approached HSBC for this loan with the intention of consolidating his debts to help improve 
the situation he found himself in. So, when this didnt work as hed intended, I can 
understand why hed be left upset and considering why it hadnt worked as hed planned. 
But, for me to agree that this was the fault of HSBC, Id have to be sure theyd made a clear 
error when lending to Mr B and that it was obvious the loan he was given was unaffordable. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The main aspect of Mr Bs complaint revolves around HSBCs decision to approve the loan 
in the first place, and his belief the checks they completed werent proportionate. When 
approving the loan, Id expect HSBC to have completed fair and proportionate checks that 
showed Mr B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. There isnt a set amount 
of checks a lender is expected to complete when approving a loan, so Ive had to consider 
whether the checks they completed were sufficient.
HSBC have explained they completed a credit check at the time of Mr Bs application, as 
well as taking into consideration the income and expenditure information he supplied. This 
information showed Mr Bs monthly income to be £1,563. It showed his expenditure totalled 
£866.96, which included a credit card held with another lender and personal finance for car. 
This left Mr B with £696.04 disposable income. Initially, Mr B applied for a loan of £7,000 
which wouldve meant monthly repayments of £304.68.
HSBC deferred this initial application. After considering the disposable income he had 
available, and the existing credit he had with HSBC on a credit card and an overdraft facility, 
HSBC returned and offered a loan of £4,500. But they explained that approval of the loan 
would be based on the condition that Mr B agreed to reduce his overdraft facility to £250 
from the previous £2,000. This effectively meant that Mr Bs existing credit with HSBC would 
be increased by £2,750. And it meant the monthly repayments would be £80 less than the 
repayments on the initial loan application.
I think this shows HSBC acted fairly and lending responsibly to Mr B. Its clear that HSBC 
took into consideration Mr Bs outstanding debt and compared this against the income and 
expenditure information Mr B provided. While I understand why Mr B thinks HSBC also had 
a duty to look through his previous bank statements, this isnt a check they had to complete. 
I think HSBC took into consideration Mr Bs current account, and they took steps to help Mr 
B control this by reducing his overdraft facility. I dont think itd be fair for me to expect HSBC 
to review his bank statements when hed already provided income and expenditure 
information and I think they were fair to rely on this information being true and accurate. 
From this information, I think the loan they offered was reasonable and the repayments 
agreed were affordable.
Ive also considered Mr Bs comments regarding HSBCs check of his credit file. Due to the 
length of time its been since the application, HSBC have been unable to provide a copy of 
the credit file check they received. But Mr B has provided us with a copy of his credit file, and Ive been able to look at the information recorded around the time HSBC approved the 
application and the information they wouldve considered. While this does show Mr B had 
outstanding credit, it also shows that Mr B was managing this credit well and there were no 
markers to suggest Mr B was in financial difficulty. Because of this, I dont think there was 
anything on the credit file that I wouldve expected to impact HSBCs decision to approve Mr 
Bs loan. So again, I think HSBC acted responsibly and reasonably when approving the loan.
Ive then considered Mr Bs comments about the way the loan was paid into his current 
account. Hes explained that as the entire amount was paid into this account, it left him with 
a surplus after hed paid off his credit card and outstanding overdraft amount. This is the 
usual process lenders follow when approving and paying loans to their customers. I wouldnt 
have expected HSBC to approve the loan and then pay off Mr Bs debts for him. So, I cant 
agree theyve done anything wrong by paying the loan to Mr B in this way.
But Im aware Mr B thinks this shows HSBC lent him too much at the time. While I 
understand why Mr B thinks this, I dont agree. Its important to note Mr B agreed to take the 
full loan amount of £4,500. So, I think he wouldve been aware when he agreed to the loan 
that thered be an amount left after his HSBC credit card and overdraft facility was paid.
Its also important to note this was after Mr B initially applied for a loan of £7,000. Had the 
first loan amount been approved, Mr B wouldve been left with an even greater surplus. Im 
aware Mr B had debts with other lenders that this amount couldve been put towards. But I 
wouldnt expect HSBC to do this for him. As HSBC advised Mr B correctly, the loan was his 
to spend as he wished. So, I dont think its fair for me to say HSBC did something wrong by 
leaving Mr B with a surplus after his HSBC accounts had been paid off. 
Im aware this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I can understand why, with 
hindsight, Mr B is now able to look at the situation and feel HSBC acted unfairly. But, at the 
time the loan was approved, and the amount paid to Mr B, from the information HSBC had 
available they couldnt have been reasonably aware that Mr B wouldnt be able to maintain 
the monthly repayments. Mr B didnt disclose the reasons behind his financial difficulty at the 
time, so I dont think HSBC couldve fairly taken this into consideration. I think the checks 
they made were fair and in proportion with the amount of extra credit they made to Mr B. And 
I think they acted fairly by proposing a lower loan amount with conditions attached. So, I 
dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman