DRN-2416408
The complaint
Mr Y complaints that Nationwide Building Society is requesting an additional sum in respect 
of his mortgage account when he thinks it has been settled in full. Nationwide says he is still 
required to pay it a share of the amount his property has gone up in value by since he 
bought it.
What happened
In 1989 Mr Y took out a mortgage with Nationwide to purchase a property.
The mortgage taken by Mr Y was a partnership mortgage. Under this scheme, which was 
specifically for healthcare workers living and working in the London area, Nationwide offered 
mortgages at a reduced interest rate  a discount of one third on Nationwides Base 
Mortgage Rate. It also allowed increased borrowing compared to standard mortgages  by 
using higher income multiples in the calculation of the amount which could be lent. 
Borrowers could take loans of up to 100% of the value of the property  capped at a 
maximum of £75,000 within London and £60,000 in the outer metropolitan area.
In exchange for these terms, borrowers agreed to Nationwide being entitled to a share of the 
increase in the value of the property. The size of this share depended on the level of 
borrowing compared to the price of the property  the loan to value ratio. If 100% of the 
value of the property was borrowed, Nationwide would be entitled to 50% of the increase in 
the property value. The share was limited in that any increase in property prices above 15% 
per annum would be ignored. And any increase in value due to home improvements made 
by the account holder would also be discounted. Nationwide refers to this share in the 
increase in value as deferred interest. 
Mr Y borrowed £62,500 in June 1989. This was 100% of the value of the property purchased 
with the mortgage. Mr Y took his mortgage over a term of 30 years. 
The mortgage ran on the same terms for the full thirty years. Mr Y finished repaying the 
amount hed originally borrowed in July 2019. Nationwide has said that he paid a total of 
£54,546.71 in interest during the life of the mortgage on top of the £62,500 borrowed  
meaning he repaid a total of £117,046.71 over the thirty years he held the mortgage. 
Mr Y then requested the return of the title deeds for his property. But Nationwide declined to 
release these or the charge over the property as it said it was still entitled to the deferred 
interest that formed part of the mortgage agreement. It said though that this amount would 
not incur further interest and would not be requested until the property was sold  although 
Mr Y could make payments towards the balance at any time if he chose to. 
Nationwide estimated that the value of Mr Ys property at that point was approximately 
£311,000. So, as the value had increased by £248,500, based on what hed paid for the 
property, it said under the terms of the mortgage it was due a further £124,250. It indicated 
that the deferred interest figure would be capped at that level, following its calculation. If the 
value of the property decreased, then the deferred interest figure would also decrease. But If 
there were any further increases in the property price, Nationwide said these would not be 
reflected in the deferred interest figure, so the maximum Mr Y would need to pay would be 
£124,250.
Mr Y complained to Nationwide about this. He said hed understood he would need to pay an 
increase in the value of his property if it was sold within the original mortgage term. But hed 
believed that the deferred interest was no longer payable after the thirty-year term ended. 
So, he thought he was not liable for the amount now requested. Nationwide didnt agree with 
Mr Y and felt it was still entitled to the deferred interest.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Y asked our service to investigate the complaint. He said he 
felt it was unfair that Nationwide was now requesting an additional £124,250 on top of what 
he had already repaid. And he was also unhappy that Nationwide no longer had copies of 
the documents he signed when he took out the mortgage, to show that hed agreed to the 
deferred interest and associated terms.
One of our investigators looked at whatd happened. He said that he didnt think it was 
unreasonable that the original documents were no longer available given the time that had 
passed since the mortgage was taken out. And even though these were unavailable, he 
thought on balance, based on the example documents Nationwide was able to provide, that 
it was entitled to still request the deferred interest. So, he didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.
Mr Y disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said he had been led to believe 
throughout the mortgage term that he wouldnt be required to pay deferred interest if the 
mortgage ran to term and was not told that he would be liable even after this term ended. He 
said that this requirement was at odds with the purpose of the mortgage scheme and if hed 
been aware of it he wouldnt have taken out the mortgage. Mr Y also didnt agree that it was 
reasonable original documentation was not available and said he felt, without this, 
Nationwide had forfeited its right to claim any further payment. As Mr Y did not agree with 
the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has talked about the original documentation being the basis for any legal dispute and 
Nationwides request for further payment not being valid without this. Our service is an 
informal alternative to a court of law, and it isnt our role to make a determination on the legal 
enforceability of an agreement. Rather our role is to consider all of the information available 
and decide what we think is fair and reasonable  while having regard for relevant laws and 
regulations.
The mortgage was taken out in 1989  more than thirty years ago. While I know Mr Y does 
not agree, I do not think it is unreasonable that original signed documentation from when the 
mortgage was taken out is no longer held by Nationwide. Businesses are not required to 
retain documents indefinitely. And given how long has passed I dont think Nationwide now 
not holding these documents means it has made an error.Ive seen several of the annual mortgage statements Mr Y was sent  which confirmed the 
mortgage product to be partnership. And Mr Y has said that he understood that he needed 
to pay a share of the increase in the property price  a feature of the partnership mortgage. 
He just believed if the mortgage ran its full term, he would no longer be required to do so. 
So, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr Y held a partnership mortgage. 
Nationwide has said, as a partnership mortgage customer, Mr Y wouldve been provided 
information about how the mortgage operated. And he wouldve been required to sign 
specific documents in order to take out the mortgage. While it doesnt hold the original 
documents bearing Mr Ys signature, Nationwide has provided sample copies of the 
information it says he wouldve seen and signed.
Mr Y has said he does not recall seeing some of the documents, or signing the agreement 
referred to. Given the passage of time, I think it is reasonable that he may not remember 
exactly what documents were completed. But I think on balance the sample documents likely 
do reflect the information that was made available to Mr Y, and what he completed, at the 
time. I say this because, in my experience, when agreeing to a mortgage, lenders, at a 
minimum, tend to require signed agreement to the terms from the borrower. And usually the 
terms are also made available to the borrowers legal representative to review and confirm 
understanding before agreement is made and the legal work involved with a mortgage, such 
as registering a charge, is completed. The sample partnership agreement Ive seen includes 
a section requiring prospective borrowers to sign. And if Mr Y had not signed this, I dont 
think Nationwide wouldve provided the mortgage. 
Ive reviewed the sample documents provided by Nationwide. The information booklet 
summarises how the partnership mortgage works by saying;
The basic idea behind Partnership Mortgages is very simple. Nationwide Anglia will provide 
loans at two thirds the normal mortgage rate, in return for a share in the increase in value 
when the property is sold.
And both parties broadly agree that this formed part of the mortgage agreement. The issue 
is whether the share provided in return for this concession is still payable if the mortgage had 
run to term and the principal sum borrowed been repaid.
Mr Y has said he believed and understood that the share would not be payable if his 
mortgage ran to term. The documents Ive seen dont go into a great deal of detail about 
what would happen at the end of the mortgage term. But the information booklet about the 
scheme says;
When you sell the property (and when you sell it is entirely up to you  theres no maximum 
or minimum time limit) Nationwide Anglia will share the profit with you.
I think this suggests, by referencing there being no maximum time limit, that the partnership, 
and the requirement to share the profits of a sale with Nationwide, is not restricted to the 
mortgage term. As otherwise Id have expected there to be a reference to a maximum time 
limit, and it coinciding with the end of the mortgage.
Mr Y has said that the information also explained that his monthly repayments paid off 
capital and interest, steadily reducing the amount owed until it was paid off completely. And 
he says that this  in particular the mention of being paid off completely - supports his 
opinion that once the mortgage had run its term it should be considered settled. This explanation is provided in a section explaining the different repayment options available 
for partnership mortgages  essentially to borrow money on a repayment, interest only or 
hybrid basis. And the description is true of how repayment mortgages generally operate. I 
think explanation was included to provide a comparison to the interest only option. While it 
does talk about the amount owed being paid off completely, Im satisfied that this was 
referencing the money Mr Y was borrowing  as it makes no reference to deferred interest or 
the agreed share. So, I dont think this is enough to say that the share in the profits was no 
longer payable when the principal sum was repaid.  
Nationwide has provided a sample of the Partnership Mortgage Supplemental Agreement 
which it says Mr Y would been required to complete. And again, on balance, I think he likely 
did as without this signed agreement, I dont think Nationwide wouldve agreed to advance 
the mortgage. This document also doesnt directly reference what would happen at the end 
of the mortgage term. The document refers to the partnership agreement as a deed. And it 
says;
This deed shall cease to have effect on
(a) Redemption of the mortgage;
(b) Payment by the Borrower to the Society within two months of a Valuation of the 
deferred interest calculated under it.
I think this could again have been clearer as it doesnt set out whether it is a matter of either 
or both of these conditions needing to be satisfied. But Im conscious it doesnt talk about 
repayment of the amount borrowed meaning that the deed no longer applied. It talks about 
redemption. And while it doesnt specify what amounts to redemption, I think it is reasonable 
that this would only take place after all of the contractual obligations were discharged. I say 
this because that is generally how mortgage redemptions work. And the payment of the 
deferred interest was one of those obligations. 
I acknowledge that what would happen at the end of the mortgage term couldve been 
addressed more directly in the initial documentation. But Im conscious that this mortgage 
was sold a significant amount of time before mortgage regulation came into effect. And the 
standards and expectations around the information contained in mortgage documentation 
were significantly different at that time to the requirements now. I cant apply todays 
requirements retrospectively. And in any event, while the information couldve been clearer 
about some points, I think the documentation in general was clear and understandable.
I havent seen anything in the information available that leads me to think Mr Y would no 
longer be required to pay the deferred interest he agreed to, in order to benefit from the 
concessions provided under the mortgage, if the mortgage ran to term. And indeed, I dont 
think Nationwide would enter into an agreement, providing a number of concessions, if the 
right to be compensated for making those concessions would just expire.
Mr Y says he believed that Nationwides right to a share, or deferred interest, would end 
with the mortgage completing its term. And that he was led to think this by Nationwide. 
Again, I accept that the information around the end of the mortgage term in the initial 
documentation couldve been clearer. But I dont think from what Ive read that it confirms the 
position as Mr Y says he understood it. And I havent seen any evidence to indicate that 
Nationwide told him or sent him any information which said he wouldnt have to pay a share 
of the increase in the property value if his mortgage ran to term, at any other point. So, I 
dont think I can reasonably say that Nationwide misled him into thinking this.So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think that the mortgage running to term means that 
Nationwide no longer has a claim for the share in the increase in the value of the property. 
And I dont think Nationwide has misled Mr Y about this.
I appreciate that the amount Nationwide has calculated it is now owed here is large  more 
than the principal amount borrowed and the total interest repaid during the course of the 
mortgage. So, I can understand why, now having knowledge of that figure, Mr Y is unhappy.
But I think the sample information Ive seen, which as Ive explained I think on balance was 
provided to Mr Y when the mortgage was taken out, was clear. The information about the 
partnership mortgage explains that the percentage share is linked to the level of borrowing 
and says that if 100% value of the property is borrowed, Nationwide will be due a 50% 
share. While it doesnt include numerical examples  I think the information on the 
calculation is clear enough that these could be easily worked out.
I also think its likely Mr Y wouldve known from the information provided that the amount he 
would be required to pay could always have been quite high. He has said he understood the 
aim of the scheme was to help people in a similar position to him get on the property ladder 
in London  which was difficult because of the cost of housing. But I dont think the deferred 
interest detracted from that. Indeed, this mortgage agreement has helped Mr Y to buy a 
property, and get onto the property ladder  in line with the stated aim in the documentation.
The information about the partnership mortgage talks about turning rocketing London house 
prices to your advantage indicating there was potential for prices to continue to grow. In 
addition, there was a separate section within the information about the mortgage on 
Nationwides share in the price increase being capped, with it not being entitled to any 
increase above 15% per annum. This was separate and, in my view, clearly distinct from the 
explanation of Nationwides overall share of the increase in value being up to 50%. And 
while the inclusion of this 15% per annum cap wasnt necessarily an indicator of what would 
happen with house prices, it did I think give Mr Y useful information to help him to 
understand how much the profit share could have been. 
Again, I appreciate that the amount Nationwide says is still owed is a significant amount of 
money. But that figure has been driven by movements in the housing market, not anything 
Nationwide has done. Mr Y might not have anticipated the figure being as high as it is when 
he took out the mortgage. But I think the information Nationwide provided at the time was 
clear. And I dont think I can say it misled Mr Y. 
Im also conscious that Mr Y has benefitted from this agreement. The mortgage allowed him 
to buy a property and get onto the property ladder. As Ive explained, the literature around 
the product explains that some of the ways it did this was allowing more borrowing than 
might otherwise have been available  through Nationwide accepting higher multiples of 
income. And by offering borrowing at a lower interest rate. These are features Mr Y has had 
use of. And on balance, I think this enabled him to buy a property, he might otherwise have 
been unable to afford.  If Mr Y had been eligible for a conventional mortgage, as opposed to 
this partnership agreement, I think he likely wouldve taken one. But he took this mortgage, 
intended to help people in similar positions to him buy their first home. Which makes me 
think he likely required the benefits of this deal, to do so.
Mr Y has also benefitted from his property increasing in value. While Nationwide is entitled to 
a share of this, Mr Y has still gained a significant amount of equity, due to house prices 
increasing. Something I dont think he wouldve been able to achieve without this mortgage  
as without the mortgage he may well not have been able to buy his property. And so even if 
the information around the mortgage had been clearer, and again for clarity I think it 
generally was anyway, I still think Mr Y wouldve likely entered into the mortgage.I havent seen anything that suggests the calculation by Nationwide about how much 
remains due is incorrect. If Mr Y provides additional information to Nationwide around the 
current valuation, or suggests that the limitation from the original agreement around 
improvements to the property should apply, then Id expect it to consider this. But based on 
the information available, I dont think Nationwide has acted outside of the terms of the 
original agreement between it and Mr Y. And I think Nationwide has acted fairly in capping 
this amount after the principal borrowing was repaid. I also think what it has said  that this 
amount will not incur further interest and Mr Y is under no obligation to pay this until the 
property is sold, is fair. 
I know the amount of deferred interest Nationwide is claiming is significant, and I can 
appreciate, when compared to the cost of the mortgage and the relevant benefits he has 
received, Mr Y feels this isnt fair. But I dont think this has come about due to any error by 
Nationwide. And because of this I cant require it to accept a different amount or waive its 
right to claim the deferred interest. As a result, I dont think Nationwide needs to do any more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman