DRN-2704541
The complaint
Mr F complains that the loans made to him by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax in 
2018 and 2019 were unaffordable and irresponsible. hed like the interest already paid to be 
refunded and the interest going forward to be frozen and his account recalculated taking this 
into account.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr F applied for a loan online from Halifax after seeing an advertisement on the 
app. He applied for £10,000 initially followed by a further £3,500 the day after and then 
consolidated this in July 2019 with a further £5,000. Mr F says he didnt speak to anyone at 
the bank initially but then he did speak with the bank to do affordability checks.  He says he 
didnt agree to a rate of 23.9% for the 2019 loan and thought that the additional £5,000 
would be at that rate while the previous loan would remain at 10.9%.
Mr F says that at the time of the first applications in 2018, he had a poor credit score but 
despite this Halifax approved the loans with minimal checks. He also says hed given 
different information about his outgoings in the two applications even though they were 
made on the same day but Halifax didnt pick this up or query it. He feels its checks at this 
time were inadequate. He says the ability to borrow so easily caused him to spend 
irresponsibly and this has made his financial situation worse.
Mr F says he wasnt able to afford the repayments and has only been able to do so by 
borrowing from his parents. This can be seen from the statements for his account. He 
considers Halifax should have realised from this, and the various calls hed made to 
rearrange his repayments, that he was in financial difficulties at the time he applied for the 
top up loan in 2019. 
Mr F feels the loans were not only unaffordable but irresponsible. Hed now like the bank to 
refund the interest already paid and to waive any further interest.
Mr Fs also unhappy that the interest rate on the third loan. He thought Halifax it would have 
kept the rate for the amount needed to repay the original loans at 10.9% (the original rate for 
those loans) but says Halifax has charged 23.9 % on the full amount. Hed like the rate 
adjusted to reflect the previous lower rate.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said it had carried out affordability checks at the 
time of the applications along with information from the credit reference agencies and what 
Mr F had put in his application forms. These hadnt shown any problems and based on that 
information, it felt the loans were affordable. Halifax noted that Mr F had maintained his 
payments and not raised any concerns about his ability to pay until his complaint in 2020.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt feel Halifax had acted irresponsibly. She 
explained Halifax used a credit scoring assessment combining a range of information in 
approving the loans and she felt this was reasonable. Based on what Mr F had put into his 
application form, the monthly loan repayments appeared affordable. And while shed noted 
what Mr F had said about the accuracy of the applications form, it was for Mr F to provide 
correct information about his income and outgoings and Halifax was entitled to rely on this 
without having to cross reference it with his statements or previous applications. 
The information on Mr Fs credit file also showed his accounts were well maintained and this 
had continued to be the case even after the 2019 loan was taken out. And she couldnt see 
that Mr F had made Halifax aware of his financial problems until hed raised his complaint so 
she couldnt reasonably say it should have done more before then. Taking all of this into 
account, our investigator couldnt agree Halifaxs lending to Mr F had been irresponsible or 
unaffordable.
Mr F remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint and asked for it to be referred to 
an ombudsman. He said in summary:
Hed had a low credit score at the time of the applications in 2018 and this should 
have raised concerns about the affordability of the loans. Hed also stated his 
outgoings as £400 in one application and £200 in the other even though theyd been 
made on the same day but Halifax hadnt picked up on this. He didnt think the 
checks it had made had been sufficient.
Hed only been able to maintain his payments with help from his parents and felt he 
was being penalised because hed attempted to keep up his repayments.
Although his credit score and salary were much better now than in 2018 and 2019, 
most lenders would still refuse to lend to him so he questioned why Halifax had felt 
the loans were affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no information on any particular point or the information is unclear or 
disputed, Ive gone on to consider what more likely than not to have happened and to have 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities.
At the heart of Mr Fs complaint is the question of whether the loans issued to him by Halifax 
were unaffordable, and therefore irresponsible. In order to decide if thats the case, I need to 
look at the steps Halifax took to satisfy itself that any borrowing was both affordable and 
appropriate.
Theres no precise list of checks that a lender must make but in general it would include 
matters such as the borrowers income, expenditure and employment at the time of the 
application along with the amount of the loan and the repayments and any other credit 
information that might be relevant. The number and nature of any checks may vary 
depending on the size of the loan and its purpose, in other words the larger the loan, the 
more detailed the checks that would be made.
Ive seen Mr F believes that the fact he could obtain two loans so easily in 2018, despite his 
low credit scores, shows the checks were inadequate. He says the loans allowed him to 
spend money he couldnt afford and made his financial position worse. And this was 
compounded in 2019 when he took out the third loan to consolidate the first two and repay 
some other debts.
Ive taken this into account and I sympathise with the situation Mr Fs found himself in over 
recent years. I can understand how difficult it has been. But having reviewed the information 
available I dont consider that the lending was irresponsible as Ill now explain. 2018 loans.
Mr F applied for an initial loan of £10,000 on 24 May 2018 and for a second loan the next 
day for £3,500. The total monthly repayments were £284.57. Mr F had stated his income at 
this time to be £1,600 and that his outgoings were £400 (reduced to £200 in the second 
application).
Halifax has said it uses its own automated credit scoring system for online applications. This 
takes into account information from several sources including the application form, the 
nature of the product, and information from the credit reference agencies to decide if the 
application should be approved. For that reason, although Mr F had a low credit rating at this 
time, this wasnt the only information Halifax relied on so I dont consider that this, in itself, 
would be enough to say the lending was irresponsible.
Mr F says he doesnt recall completing the forms but Ive seen copies of them and I consider 
that on balance thats it most likely that he did complete these because of the information 
included. In particular the income with regard to Mr Fs income and outgoings could only 
have come from Mr F. And with regard to the different figures for outgoings included in the 
two forms, I can understand why Mr F may feel this should have been picked up but as 
Halifax has explained, each application is assessed independently and theyre not cross 
referenced with each other. I should add that this is also the reason why the credit files 
showed two different reference numbers because each application generated its own 
search.
Having said that, if I look at the figures Mr F provided in either of the application forms at this 
time, there was nothing to suggest they werent affordable, even on the basis of the higher 
outgoings. Its also the case that there were no other adverse markers such as defaults or 
missed payments to indicate that Mr F was in financial difficulties or that he wouldnt be able 
to manage the repayments. In the circumstances I cant agree that Halifaxs decision to 
approve these applications was irresponsible on the information available.
2019 loan
Ive also gone on to consider the position at the time Mr F applied for the loan in 2019. At 
this time Mr F stated his income to be £1,896 with outgoings of £80. Ive noted that the 
outgoings seemed low but as Mr F had stated that he was living with his parents, I dont 
consider that it was obviously incorrect.
However, Halifax didnt just rely on this form. It also undertook checks at the credit reference 
agencies and these were satisfactory in that they didnt disclose any negative information to 
indicate the loan wasnt affordable. Its also relevant that this loan was to consolidate the 
earlier loans and help Mr F repay some other outstanding credit and debts which meant in 
effect that his overall monthly payments would not be significantly higher than his existing 
ones, which hed been successfully managing. 
Ive seen Mr F says hed only been keeping up with his payments by borrowing from his 
parents and feels Halifax should have known this from his account history and from the 
various telephone calls hed made to it regarding the payment dates. I appreciate the point 
Mr F is making but I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Halifax to monitor Mr Fs 
accounts to see where his payments were coming from. And because hed been managing 
his payments on time and as expected, thered have been no specific reason why it would 
have been aware of any problems he was having until he told it about them when he raised 
his complaint.Interest rate
Mr F has said that he thought the interest rate for the consolidation loan would be 
apportioned between the original rate on the first loans and the higher rate for the top up 
loan. However, the interest rate for the loan in 2019 was set out in the terms and conditions 
that Mr F agreed to and this was available to Mr F before the loan was finalised so Im 
satisfied the rate charged is correct.
Delay in handling Mr Fs complaint
Halifax has accepted that it taken longer than it should have done to respond to Mr Fs 
complaint. Its sent him a cheque for £75 to acknowledge the impact of this and I consider 
that this is reasonable and that this issue is now resolved. 
Ive taken into account that Mr F feels Halifaxs lending criteria doesnt fit with other lenders 
but each lender will apply its own criteria based on the product and the market so the 
decision of one lender wont necessarily apply elsewhere. The question is whether the 
decisions in Mr Fs case were fair and reasonable. 
I realise that Mr F will be disappointed by my decision. but, having reviewed the information, 
I dont consider that the loans were irresponsible or unaffordable at the time they were 
made. And, for that reason I cant reasonably ask Halifax to refund any of the interest paid or 
to reduce the interest going forward. However, if Mr F is in difficulties I would expect Halifax 
to reach out to him in a positive and sympathetic way to agree a repayment plan and I would 
encourage him to discuss this with the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman