DRN-2648091
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Volkswagen
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality and he isnt happy with
the refund following rejection of the car. 
What happened
Mr L acquired a used car in April 2019 and paid a deposit of £10,692.50. He took out a hire
purchase agreement for the balance with VWFS. Mr L said that the car had problems with a
knocking noise, and this was investigated by the supplying dealership on a number of
occasions, but the fault could not be rectified. He complained to VWFS on 15 October 2019
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In January 2020 VWFS agreed to allow Mr L to reject the car. It also agreed to refund the
deposit paid. Mr L wasnt happy that VWFS didnt offer to return any of the repayments
made under the agreement and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought
that the offer to allow Mr L to reject the car and refund the deposit following rejection was fair
and reasonable. They didnt think that Mr L should have a refund of any of the repayments
made under the agreement because he had been provided with a courtesy car. They asked
VWFS to refund 8% interest on the deposit which was agreed and so the investigator
thought this was fair.
Mr L agreed to the rejection, and the car was returned in August 2020. Mr L didnt agree with
the redress and replied to say in summary that the courtesy car was an inferior car and he
had essentially been paying an inflated price for this. Mr L said that he had been paying for a
car he wasnt driving because VWFS hadnt processed the rejection. Mr L asked for the
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I made a provisional decision on 25 January 2021 that I was minded to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint in part and refund him one monthly instalment for the trouble and upset caused by 
the trips to the garage and the general inconvenience of having to return the car. VWFS 
agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr L didnt agree and said that because VWFS didnt allow him to reject the car in January 
as it should have done he shouldnt have to pay the instalments between January and 
August. Mr L said that if VWFS had taken the car back he would have bought a new car and 
these repayments wouldnt have been made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my
decision.
I think that it was fair and reasonable to allow Mr L to reject the car. It isnt disputed that the
car has had an ongoing problem which has not been resolved which means it wasnt of
satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr L.
The area of dispute between Mr L and VWFS is what payments should be refunded to Mr L
now that the car has been returned. I can see that at the time Mr L complained he had been
in possession of the car for around 6 months. Mr L says the car was in the garage for around
8 weeks in total.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 states that a finance company is entitled to make a
deduction for fair use. It doesnt set out what rate or method should be used. Mr Ls finance
agreement doesnt set out what deductions can be made in the event of a rejection either.
Our approach is to look at all of the circumstances and decide what is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances. Usually we look at whether a consumer has had the benefit of a monthly
instalment. In this case Mr Ls monthly repayment was £377.06. When the car was inspected
in December 2019 it had covered 12,937 miles. Mr L had been able to travel around 4,500
miles in 8 months. VWFS has said that the fault did not prevent Mr L driving the car and
during the time that the car was being repaired he had the benefit of a courtesy car. I agree
with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for VWFS to retain the payments
made towards fair usage of the car.
As this was a hire purchase agreement there are a number of costs rolled up within the
monthly repayment and I do appreciate that it isnt only about miles travelled. I have also
considered that Mr L was making repayments on a car that he expected to own at the end of
the agreement but that the car would have been worth less because of depreciation.
Calculating fair usage isnt a science and there is no method set out in the guidance or the
paperwork Mr L signed.
Mr L has said that it isnt fair that he should have to pay for the car after VWFS agreed to
take it back in January 2020 and before it was collected in August 2020. Mr L explained that
he didnt use it during that time. I still dont think that VWFS should refund Mr L those
repayments because the fault didnt stop him from driving the car and it remained in his
possession during that time. Mr L could have used the car if he had wanted to. I am not
criticising Mr L for his decision not to drive the car and I understand why he may not have
wanted to, but I dont think that it is fair  VWFS should refund the repayments he made 
because of this. I do understand the argument Mr L is making but I think that because he 
had use of the car it is fair that he should pay towards it.
I agree with the investigator that 8% simple interest should be added to the refund of Mr Ls
deposit and I can see that this was refunded by VWFS. I think this is fair and reasonable.
I do think that Mr L should be compensated for the trouble and upset that this has caused.
Mr L has been without the car he was paying for and although he was able to continue
driving a car, it was of an inferior specification than the one he had. The car had several trips
to the dealership to be repaired and I think that this would have been disruptive for Mr L. I
think it would be fair to refund Mr L one monthly instalment to compensate for this.  
Putting things right
VWFS should refund Mr L one monthly instalment.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Volkswagen
Financial Services (UK) Limited to refund Mr L one monthly instalment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman