DRN-3237952
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about QIC Europe Ltds handling and settlement of their water 
damage claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C discovered a leak in their basement and contacted QIC for advice and to 
make a claim. QIC confirmed that the leak itself wouldnt be covered under the policy but 
subsequent damage would be, and that Mr and Mrs C needed to get the leak fixed before 
repairs could commence. Mr and Mrs C did appoint different experts to try to find the cause 
of the leak.
QIC didnt accept the claim for several months. When it did accept the claim, a debate 
followed about how much the final settlement amount should be. In the end a final claim 
payment of £16,950.88 was made by QIC. Mr and Mrs C said this should have been paid 
much earlier and they had to continually chase QIC. Mr and Mrs C had moved out shortly 
after finding the leak as they were worried the leak would impact on some family health 
conditions. Later they asked QIC to pay for the alternative accommodation they arranged for 
themselves. QIC said costs like these had to be agreed in advance and it wouldnt pay. 
Unhappy with this and settlement delay Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Regarding the alternative accommodation he 
said QIC had acted reasonably and in line with its policy wording. Our investigator felt there 
were some delays but felt that was down to discovering the cause of the leak and QIC 
needing to get clear evidence of costs to be paid. He didnt think QIC had acted unfairly. 
Based on the drying out costs and the waiver of the policy excess by QIC our investigator 
felt QICs final claim settlement was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC was clear with Mr and Mrs C from the start that finding and fixing the leak was their own 
responsibility under the terms of the insurance policy. Mr and Mrs did appoint different 
experts but finding out the cause proved to be tricky. An expert surveyor was appointed and 
said it was the basement tanking. This meant QIC said it had no liability for the claim. It later 
found out the leak had come from the boiler and at that point QIC accepted the claim under 
the policy.
After the claim was accepted there was a period during which Mr and Mrs C provided QIC 
with various quotes. Mr and Mrs C said that QIC didnt respond and they had to keep 
contacting it to find out what was going on. It did take a few months before the final 
settlement of £16,950.88 was agreed between the parties.
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs C confirmed they moved their family out of the home shortly after uncovering the 
leak. They said this was due to medical conditions. QIC said the policy would cover such 
costs if the home was not habitable. It also pointed out the policy wording said costs must be 
agreed with QIC prior to the amount being paid. QIC said it was only told about the costs 
much later whereas Mr and Mrs C said they notified QIC early on. QIC said that as it didnt 
know about the move it had no opportunity to minimise the need for alternative 
accommodation or the amount of time it was required for. Mr and Mrs C said in discussion 
with QIC it had said it might pay back the amounts to them. Ive not been able to find any 
record of this conversation.
I think QIC was reasonable when it declined to deal with this part of the claim. I cant see any 
evidence it was made aware of the need to move out, theres no evidence confirming the 
property was uninhabitable and it relied on its policy wording. I dont think it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably over the alternative accommodation costs.
I dont think I can hold QIC responsible for the family issues and concerns Mr and Mrs C said 
they suffered following the move to the alternative accommodation. It wasnt QICs decision 
to move them.
Settlement amount
Ive seen the breakdown of the total settlement and it doesnt appear that the amounts are in 
dispute. I think Mr and Mrs C are more upset about the amount of time it took for the claim to 
be accepted, to be paid and compensation. It did take some time to find out what was the 
cause of the leak. Mr and Mrs C say the surveyor from QIC had got this wrong and the leak 
was a simple one from the boiler. But it did take some time for anyone to correctly diagnose 
the leak including all the initial experts Mr and Mrs C appointed. QIC had been clear at the 
start it was the policyholders responsibility to find this out. So, I dont think its fair to lay the 
blame for this with the surveyor.
In terms of overall delay, the claim wasnt accepted initially but once an insured event was 
discovered QIC agreed to pay. I think thats reasonable. There was some back and forth 
between the parties over the quotes and invoices but that happens in cases when there is a 
dispute. Overall, based on the breakdown of the settlement and how QIC got to that figure I 
cant see that QIC acted unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs C said that they were still out of pocket due to the interest charges on their credit 
card at a total of £1,083.67. QIC said the settlement amount included a payment for drying 
out costs of £1,225. It doesnt appear Mr and Mrs C had to pay out for this but QIC settled it. 
QIC also said it didnt think it was responsible for an agreement between Mr and Mrs C and 
their credit card provider.
Further, QIC agreed to waive the £600 policy excess from the claim settlement. It said this 
was due to any delays Mr and Mrs C felt it had caused. Our investigator felt these amounts 
overall were a fair settlement for the interest and as compensation for any delays with the 
claim. I agree. I think this was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.I make no award against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman