DRN-2264494
The complaint
Mr W through a professional representative complains that The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) didnt provide him with enough information to make an 
informed choice about his options at retirement.
 
What happened
Mr W held a Personal Pension with Prudential with a normal retirement age of 60. In May 
2006 Prudential sent Mr W a retirement pack, this included a Key Features Document (KFD) 
which set out information about his options and a form with eight different annuity quotes 
which he could select.
The quotes Prudential provided gave Mr W various options to take his benefits, including  
having an income that remained the same each year and an option to have an income 
that started at a lower amount but increased at 3% annually.
The KFD said on page 5:
RISK FACTORS
Inflation will reduce the spending power of your income in the future, especially if you 
choose a level income
Mr W chose to take a level income paying him £523.56 per year.
More recently in 2020, Mr Ws representative complained to Prudential to say that Mr W 
had been mis-advised to take out a level income. Mr Ws representative said his income 
would be eroded by inflation and he shouldve been informed to take out an income 
drawdown plan.
Prudential responded to say that the sale was non-advised and therefore it wasnt 
responsible for the choices made by Mr W. It also noted that Mr W did have a financial 
adviser at the time (separate to Prudential) but chose not to use him.
Our investigator looked into matters. He concluded that the sale was non-advised and 
Prudential had provided enough information to make Mr W aware of his options. 
Mr Ws representative disagreed. He said the potential effect of inflation when taking 
benefits at age 60 is huge and could significantly decrease Mr Ws buying power in the 
future. This shouldve been made much clearer than on page 5 of a document that Mr W 
had to seek out to find and fully understand. The fact that the annuity options included a 
3% escalation option is of little significance as it has a far lower starting income. Had the 
significance of inflation been presented to Mr W, he wouldve known to get advice and 
wouldve likely taken out a low cost income-drawdown policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
This was a non-advised sale, Prudential had no requirement to check that the choices Mr W 
made were suitable for him. It was only required to make sure Mr W was provided with 
enough information to make an informed choice.
Mr W did have an adviser but chose not to make use of their services  although it appears 
they did help Mr W as a favour to complete his vesting of his benefits. Prudential did as it 
was requested by Mr W, paying him his benefits in-line with the selection made by him.
Mr Ws representative says that Prudential didnt do enough to make it clear to Mr W about 
the importance of inflation. I disagree, it set this out clearly to him in the KFD document on 
page 5  that inflation will reduce his buying power in the future.
And further on page 8 of the KFD it said:
I dont think realistically and in the context of a non-advised sale, Prudential couldve been 
expected to have done anymore to make Mr W aware of the potential effects of inflation. Mr 
Ws representative says this wasnt prominent enough on page 5 (and 8). But not everything 
can be on the first page of a document. This information wasnt hidden in small print, it was 
clearly presented in a document titled Key Features and it was reasonable to expect that Mr 
W should read this.
As an aside Mr Ws representative suggests had he been made aware of the impact of 
inflation and sought advice, Mr W wouldve taken out a low-cost drawdown product. I dont 
believe a simple low-cost drawdown product existed in 2006. And I dont think Mr W 
wouldve been able to find a provider willing to accept a transfer. Typically income drawdown 
was only available and deemed suitable around at that time for those with large funds circa 
£200,000 or more. And drawdown was a higher cost and higher risk arrangement then. Mr 
Ws fund was approximately £10,000, I therefore very much doubt that an adviser wouldve 
recommended drawdown to him or that he couldve found a provider to accept that 
arrangement in any event.
In conclusion, Prudential provided Mr W with enough information to make an informed 
choice about his retirement options. Mr W chose not to take advice and Prudential 
administered his annuity in-line with his instructions.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman