DRN-3234671
The complaint
Mr M complains that Newcastle Building Society (NBS) insisted he receive investment 
advice against his wishes when he attempted to deposit a significant sum.  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M contacted NBS as he had just under £600,000 he wanted to place 
with it. The money had come from the maturity of some bonds held with another provider 
and Mr M wanted to open some new bonds with NBS.
An in-person meeting was arranged, during which Mr M was introduced to a financial 
adviser. This led to further meetings and Mr M ultimately being advised to instead invest the 
money. Shortly after, he changed his mind and made complaints to NBS and the business 
responsible for the advice (of which NBSs advisers are appointed representatives). The 
latter complaint has been dealt with by this service separately under a different reference.
NBS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It felt it had acted reasonably in offering him 
alternatives and the chance to invest. It noted that hed had several meetings with the 
adviser and been given the opportunity to have a family member attend. And further, all the 
advisers recommendations had been set out to him in writing before proceeding.   
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as NBS. He didnt feel it was wrong for NBS to have offered Mr M the opportunity 
to receive advice on what else he might be able to do with the money. 
Mr M didnt accept this. He said he felt NBS had breached his confidentiality by bringing an 
adviser into the initial meeting and had targeted him to take advantage of his vulnerability. 
He asked that the investigator obtain a recording of the call hed made to NBS to discuss the 
money. The investigator did so but wasnt persuaded to change his view of the matter. He 
remained of the opinion that it had been reasonable for NBS to offer the advisers services, 
which Mr M couldve declined at any point.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
Listening to Mr Ms initial call with NBS, it is clear that his intention was to put his money into 
new fixed rate bonds  a similar environment to where the money had come from. 
Throughout the conversation he kept coming back to that objective.  
But the member of staff he spoke with highlighted early in the conversation that she felt he 
should speak with an adviser in the branch because of the amount of money involved. On 
the face of it, I think this was a reasonable suggestion. I accept that the staff member did 
become quite insistent when Mr M raised some concerns about him having seen advisers 
before, already having some investments and not wishing to pay to put money in. But the 
staff member did then go on to confirm that it would be totally up to Mr M once hed spoken 
to the adviser. 
Im also conscious that once Mr M had agreed to meet the adviser there followed a series of 
meetings, which gave him several opportunities to change his mind, as he ultimately did 
once the investment was made. So, Ive not seen that he was at any point prevented from 
reverting to his original plan.
Given how clear Mr Ms initial intention was, I can understand why when he did change his 
mind and cancel, he wouldve looked back on the whole process and felt hed been 
unnecessarily inconvenienced. But overall, given the sum of money involved, I dont think 
the staff member acted incorrectly in referring Mr M to the adviser. Im also not persuaded he 
was targeted because of any vulnerability. I think it likely that any customer presenting with 
the amount of money in question wouldve been pointed in the same direction.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman