DRN-4405454
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is not allowing her access to her Euro account, 
and she has had poor customer service in trying to access her funds. 
What happened
Ms G says that she was unable to find out the potential cost of a Euro transfer prior to 
making a transaction. When she rung Barclays to find this out, she says the call handler did 
not know the answer. Ms G says that she cant obtain funds from her Euro account. She said 
she spent an hour queuing in a branch and the staff seemed unclear how she could access 
actual Euros before her travel. Ms G made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays upheld Ms Gs complaint. They said for the Euro to Euro transfer charges, this has 
been resolved as she was told there was no fee. They agreed she had a poor experience 
when she tried to order Euros and they offered her £25 for the distress and inconvenience. 
Ms G said that they had offered her £50, despite the letter saying £25. Ms G brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator said that Barclays could not locate any records stating they would pay Ms G 
£50. She said Barclays informed us that Ms G contacted them when the international 
helpdesk was not open yet. She agreed the information Ms G wanted was not provided to 
her in a timely manner, but the agent was able to answer her query after she had gathered 
the information.
Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said her recollection of the call 
was that the call handler was not able to answer her question, and they advised her to ring 
back the next day. Ms G said she is still unable to get through to Barclays to resolve this, 
and she said she was unclear as to how to access her money from the account.
Barclays said that while there was no evidence they offered her £50 compensation and they 
still maintain this position, they would be willing to offer £50 to Ms G to save her waiting for a 
further decision if this would resolve her complaint. Our adjudicator put this offer to Ms G, but 
she rejected the compensation. She said she doesnt think this is enough compensation. 
She said that the phone call Barclays made to her disturbed her and that she would have 
preferred to have communication with them via an email or letter, and the disturbance alone 
should be worth more than £50.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Ms Gs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make it clear to Ms G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
they should operate their procedures, such as how they should allow access from a Euro 
account, or what their procedure should be to withdraw Euros from branch (such as writing 
to them instead of ringing them to withdraw this). It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive listened to a call which Ms G had with Barclays on 16 January 2023 at 6:38pm where 
she wanted to know what the charge was to transfer money from her Barclays Euro account 
to a third party Euro account, which is based in the UK. The call handler was unable to find 
this information, so she tried to ask her manager the information, but this was taking too 
long. Ms G said the information was not on their website. The call handler tells Ms G that 
they are having system problems. She says they have another team that can help them, 
which is open from 9am-5pm, so she was unable to transfer her through to them. She said if 
Ms G was able to hang on until the morning then she would be able to call that team. Ms G 
asks if they would be calling her and the call handler says you would need to call them.
The call handler says her manager has come back to her and she says right, so my 
manager is saying, according to the information that she has, theres no fee. So what I would 
say to you, ok, go ahead and do that transfer, erm, and if there is a fee, you can call us back, 
Im gonna put a note on your file, ok, erm, if, if there is a fee, then we would be happy to look 
at it and refund it, erm, in, in light of whats happened tonight. She also says that while they 
dont make a charge, the receiving bank may. Ms G confirms to the call handler that they 
dont. The call is ended by the call handler saying that as far as we can see, theres no 
charges, Ms G replies fine, the call handler says my manager has found that information. 
She then says so what Im saying if, if you do get charged, by us not and Ms G says Ill 
call up, yeah.
I can see from the system notes that the call handler did leave a note to say if Ms G was 
charged to refund the charge, as the call handler explained the international team had 
closed and she was unable to find the information. Therefore there were lots of silence while 
the call handler tried to find the information. Ms G was audibly frustrated as this continued. 
So Im persuaded that the call could have been handled better. But after listening to the call, 
I do think it was clear that there would be no fee for the transfer. But in the event there was, 
they would look to refund the fee. There was no agreement to send her out any information 
about this as the call handler confirmed her manager had found the information, and no call 
was promised to Ms G. 
From looking at Ms Gs Euro statement, I can see that she transferred what appears to be 
100EUR on 17 January 2023 to a third party account, and on 18 January 2023, she 
transferred 5,000EUR to a third party account. Neither of these transactions had a fee 
attached to them. So Ms G was given the right information on the call on 16 January 2023, 
albeit it did take a while for her to get this information, and she successfully transferred out of 
the account without a fee. She also made a further transfer out of her account on 1 March 
2023, again to a third party account for 1,000EUR.
Ive considered what Ms G has said about the phone call she received from Barclays on 10 
February at 12:43pm and how this disturbed her. The call handler asked is it a good time to 
speak? and Ms G replied errrr, its alright, yeah. So as Ms G confirmed it was alright to 
speak, then Im not persuaded the call handler did anything wrong by continuing the 
conversation. If it was not a good time for Ms G to speak, then it would have been 
proportionate to tell him it wasnt a good time and to ask if he could call back later.The call was in relation to a letter that Ms G sent Barclays. She tells the call handler that she 
was unable to get cash out of the branch. She tells the call handler that it was clear that 
when she made the transfer there was no fee, but she didnt expect the ineptitude of the 
previous call handler when trying to navigate her account. She said the information she 
received said for her to pop into the branch, (to withdraw cash from her Euro account), but 
she was unable to do so, and she didnt know the process.
Ms G asks that moving forward, how does she order money. The call handler says that he is 
willing to offer her £25 compensation for what happened, and Ms G says thats fine for the 
first incident, but not about what happened in the branch. The call handler says he cant 
really give her an answer resolving that at the moment, and Ms G says she realises that. He 
confirms that the only method to order the cash is through the telephone. Ms G says that this 
isnt an option as she tried to ring them and was disconnected after waiting for 39 minutes. 
Ms G asks the call handler questions about if she could write to them to access cash and the 
call handler says he works in the complaints department. Ms G tells the call handler that she 
is going to go now as she is overseas. 
From the calls Ive listened to, I havent heard that Ms G was promised a call back on either 
call which was available for me to listen to. The only other call from around this timeframe 
that I can see from the information Barclays have provided is from 30 January 2023. There is 
no call recording of this as I believe this is the call Ms G is referring to when she tried to 
order cash, but she couldnt get through to a call handler. I can see the call length time adds 
up to over 32 minutes.   
Im satisfied that the information Ms G was looking for was available on Barclays website as 
I have been able to locate this. It shows that on their foreign currency account page a link to 
currency account details. Page six of this document shows there is no fee for a Barclays 
international payment made via online banking (but if it was made in branch or through 
telephone banking there would be a £25 fee). Page two of this document gives her a specific 
phone line to ring them to order cash. This document does not reference her popping into 
the branch for the cash. 
Im satisfied that the confusion regarding Ms G visiting a branch for cash is because her 
welcome letter that she was sent in 2018 when she opened the account says she may be 
able to get currency cash withdrawals by popping into your local Barclays branch in the UK. 
Euro and US dollars may be available on the day of ordering, however, it seems that 
Barclays have since updated the wording on this document, which they are entitled to do as 
processes change over time. And the up to date correct information was displayed on their 
website. I also note that the wording on her original letter says that the Euros may be 
available, not will be available (or similar wording). So there was never a guarantee that 
Ms G could visit the branch and withdraw Euros on the day, although I am sorry to hear her 
experience at the branch.
Ms G is now aware that there is no fee for transferring Euros to her third party Euro account 
online. But if she wants to withdraw cash for her Euro account in Euros then she will need to 
ring the specific number listed in our adjudicators view of her complaint. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Im satisfied that 
Barclays increased offer of £50 is proportionate for what happened here. I say this because 
Ms G was given the correct information when she rang Barclays in January 2023, but this 
was after long periods of silence and the call handler trying to get information from her 
manager. Ms G knew this information was definitely correct over the next couple of days as 
she made the transfers, and these attracted no fee. While Barclays had the correct 
information on their website about this, I would still expect the call handler to be able to find 
the information relatively quickly even if she wasnt part of the international team, as it was a relatively easy question Ms G had asked her.
And although the information about ordering cash was also online, I would expect the branch 
staff to be able to highlight the correct information to Ms G about the cash withdrawal 
procedures. Ms G has mentioned how she was disconnected on the phone after trying to 
ring them about this, and this is disappointing to hear. So I do think its fair that the £25 
previous offer is doubled to £50 to recognise the impact that these issues had on Ms G, so it 
follows Ill be asking them to put things right for Ms G.
Putting things right
Barclays have offered to increase the compensation payable to Ms G to £50 to settle her 
complaint. For the reasons Ive detailed above, I think it would be fair for them to pay Ms G 
£50 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms G £50 (less anything they 
have already paid her) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman