DRN-3484719
The complaint
Mr T complains about a number of issues hes experienced in the course of using his 
accounts at TSB Bank Plc.
What happened
In April 2018, TSB upgraded their IT systems. Mr T experienced some problems using his 
accounts immediately following the IT upgrade and made several complaints to TSB 
between April 2018 and November 2020. These complaints covered a number of issues, 
some directly related to the IT issues and others less so.
TSB decided to combine a number of Mr Ts complaints and responded to most of the 
issues in a final response letter in March 2019. Mr T raised some further issues after this, 
including discovering incorrect information being noted on his complaints and that TSB had 
noted him internally as a serial complainer. TSB agreed with some of Mr Ts concerns and 
offered him a total of £285.45 for these issues to cover some of the costs incurred and in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr T wasnt happy with TSBs responses to his concerns, so he referred his complaint to 
this service. Mr T felt £1,150 was a more reasonable amount to reflect the issues he 
experienced.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ts points  she explained that we couldnt consider Mr Ts 
concerns about how TSB had handled Mr Ts complaints, including their decision to 
consolidate multiple complaint points. In most cases she thought TSB had put things right 
as shed expect but she did think TSB couldve done more in relation to information given to
Mr T in a series of phone calls. Following our Investigators involvement, TSB agreed to 
offer Mr T an additional £50 for this part of his complaint.
Mr T didnt accept the Investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out what I thought. Ive included my findings again 
here and they form part of this decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive considered each of Mr Ts complaint points separately below.
Poor service on TSBs telephone banking including long waiting times and calls being cut off
TSB has acknowledged that in the aftermath of the IT update they were unable to handle 
the amount of contact they were receiving from customers as they usually would. They 
apologised for the problems Mr T had experienced when trying to contact them and offered
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr T, along 
with a further £50 to cover any costs he incurred.
They also said theyd be willing to consider any additional expenses Mr T incurred and 
invited Mr T to send further evidence of any additional costs. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr T provided anything further for TSB to consider here.
Overall I think the £100 along with £50 to cover Mr Ts costs is fair and reasonable for these 
issues.
Missed payment on a credit card account
Mr T made a payment via telephone banking on 12 May 2018 to pay his credit card account 
with another bank  which Ill call T Bank. This payment was returned to his TSB account 
the next day because T Bank said it had no reference number and so couldnt be allocated 
to Mr Ts account. Mr T wasnt aware the payment had been returned until he tried to use 
his T Bank credit card on 24 May 2018 and found it was blocked. Mr T was trying to buy 
food in a shop when he discovered the card was blocked and so found this particularly 
upsetting.
TSB accepted that the returned payment was likely caused by the problems with the IT 
update. TSB agreed to pay Mr T £24 and £11.45 to reflect the interest and charges hed 
incurred.
TSB also asked Mr T to let them know and provide evidence if his credit file had been 
impacted by this payment failing. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr T provided anything 
further for TSB to consider here.
TSB acknowledged this distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T for this issue in the 
offer of £100 in the final response letter in March 2019. So overall TSB offered to cover any 
financial loss caused to Mr T as result of the returned payment, consider any information 
about how this had impacted his credit file and acknowledged the worry and inconvenience 
along with the wider distress and inconvenience amount  which I think it was fair in the 
circumstances.
Underpayment made to a credit card account on 24 May 2018
Because the payment to Mr Ts credit card with T Bank was returned, he needed to make 
the payment again. And he called TSB to do so.
Ive listened to the call during which this payment was requested. The call handler asked 
Mr T twice to confirm the amount of about £433  which he did, agreeing this amount 
was correct twice.
I do understand Mr Ts frustration that this payment wasnt for the correct amount, 
especially because he was only having to make the payment that day because of a 
previous error made by TSB. But Im satisfied having listened to the call that TSB made 
the payment in line
with his instructions during that call, after checking he was happy with the amount twice.
So I dont find TSB need to do anything in respect of this part of Mr Ts complaint.
Payments flagged for security checksIn June and July 2018 Mr T attempted to make payments to two different credit card 
accounts. Both of these payments were blocked by TSBs fraud prevention measures.
Its usual for banks to have fraud prevention measures in place to protect them and 
their customers accounts. So I dont find TSB made a mistake when these 
transactions were initially blocked.
But I have listened to the calls Mr T made to the bank to try and sort these issues out. He 
was given inconsistent and unclear information and had to make multiple phone calls 
before he was eventually able to make the payments he wanted to.
Our Investigator thought £50 was fair in recognition of this and I agree this is appropriate. I 
say this because across the two days concerned Mr T had to make a total of eight calls 
and he was given inconsistent information about what he needed to do to make the 
payments he wanted to.
Incorrect information in Mr Ts file
Mr T made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to TSB. When he received the information 
from TSB in response to this request, Mr T discovered in the complaint notes a reference to 
a complaint that wasnt one of his but related to another customer.
When Mr T complained about this to TSB, they explained that this was due to human 
error and someone typing the wrong reference number into his notes. They apologised 
and paid Mr T £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Ive looked at the information Mr T was unhappy with. Theres an incorrect reference 
number in Mr Ts complaint notes. TSB have said no information about Mr Ts complaint 
was recorded in error on the other case so, in those circumstances I find £100 is fair and 
reasonable in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
So TSB dont need to take further action in respect of this part of Mr Ts complaint.
TSB has noted Mr T as a serial complainer
Also following receipt of the information from his SAR, Mr T discovered TSB had recorded in 
some of their notes he was a serial complainer. Mr T feels this is derogatory.
Based on Mr Ts own testimony and the banks records, hes made several complaints to 
the bank. So I dont think its unreasonable or inaccurate for TSB to make a note of this in 
their records.
Mr Ts name appearing incorrectly on statements
Mr T had, prior to April 2018 and the IT update, asked TSB not to use his full name on his 
statements as he had previously been the victim of identity theft. TSB had agreed to change 
the format of his name on statements. After the IT upgrade, there were a number of months
where Mr Ts statements were sent to him using his full name instead of just his initials.
TSB apologised for this in its final response in March 2019 and said, based on the 
statements it could see at the time, that they had been addressed correctly using Mr Ts 
initials only.But based on the selection of statements Ive seen, this issue occurred intermittently 
between 2018 and late 2020. Mr T says he accepts that his name appears to have been 
correct from late 2020 onwards. So it would seem that this issue wasnt fully resolved as 
the final response letter from March 2019 would suggest.
With this in mind, and as it appears it took about two years for this issue to be permanently 
resolved I intend to find its appropriate that TSB pay Mr T £150 to acknowledge the worry 
of finding statements being issued in his full name initially (after hed specifically asked for 
this not to happen) and the inconvenience and frustration caused to Mr T as a result of this 
remaining unresolved for such a long period of time.
Mr T feels total compensation of £1,150 is appropriate to resolve his complaint
Ive considered Mr Ts overall experience. Theres no doubt hes experienced a series of 
problems using his accounts with TSB, over an extended period of time. Not all of those 
issues were because TSB made a mistake (i.e. the underpayment to the credit card at T 
Bank and payments being flagged for fraud checks). But most of them were or were 
related to earlier mistakes made by TSB. The mistakes TSB did make werent always 
resolved quickly. Mr T spent a lot of time trying to sort them out. And he was often given 
incorrect or conflicting information when trying to resolve things which understandably 
caused him a considerable amount of worry and frustration.
I note Mr Ts view that £1,150 is an appropriate amount to acknowledge all hes been 
through but I dont agree. I say this because when Mr T initially told us this amount he was 
also including an additional complaint point which is being dealt with separately and 
because Ive explained above in respect of each of the complaint issues where TSB has 
already done what Id expect and where they need to do more.
Overall, I dont think TSB has done enough to recognise the impact their mistakes had on 
Mr T and I intend to require them to pay further compensation on as set out above in 
relation to each matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T didnt agree with my provisional decision. In particular he said he hadnt received all the 
payments TSB had offered prior to the complaint being referred here and he still didnt think 
there was enough overall compensation to reflect the impact the issues hed experienced 
had on him. 
Mr T also provided statements for his T Bank credit card account to show the relevant 
amount of interest was actually £13.25 and said what had happened with TSB and the 
subsequent complaint had caused his mental health to suffer. 
TSB confirmed there had been an oversight with the payments and they hadnt paid Mr T all 
of the money they said they had. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear dealing with TSB and then this complaint has caused Mr T anxiety and has 
had an impact on his mental health. A lot has happened here and I can understand why Mr T 
is keen for the matter to be resolved. Before reaching my final decision, Ive thought carefully about everything thats happened and Mr T s particular comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Having done so, I agree with Mr T  based on the statements hes produced  the correct 
amount of interest Mr T incurred on his T Bank credit card was £13.25. And its now clear 
that Mr T had not received the interest payment from TSB anyway. So Im going to require 
them to pay £13.25 to him now, along with the £24 to cover charges which TSB also should 
already have paid him. 
Turning to the overall compensation amount, my findings on that remain the same. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Ts mentioned that the issues he had with TSB particularly in relation to his T credit card 
being blocked that this caused embarrassment as well as worry and inconvenience. But I 
had already considered taken this into account in my provisional decision and decided what 
TSB had offered in respect of this was fair. So Im not persuaded to change my decision on 
this issue.
But I said I intended to find TSB should pay Mr T further compensation in respect of some 
issues and as neither party have provided any new information for me to consider on those 
issues, I see no reason to change the findings I made.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
To put things right, I require TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr T the following amounts:
£13.25 in respect of the interest they previously agreed to pay. 
£24 in respect of charges that they previously agreed to pay. 
An additional £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T in 
relation his name not appearing correctly on his statements and the poor service he 
received during telephone calls to TSB about the underpayment to his credit card on 
24 May 2018. 
These amounts are in addition to the £150 already paid to Mr T.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman