DRN-2957523
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) to transfer the 
funds from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr P was in contact with BRG in early 2017 following discussions with a third-party financial 
advisor (F). It was agreed that BRG would provide Mr P with advice about transferring his 
pension.
F completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. 
BRG also assessed Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it deemed to be medium. 
Based on Mr Ps circumstances at the time BRG advised him to transfer his pension benefits 
into a SIPP recommended by F. The suitability report stated the reasons for this 
recommendation were, in summary that the benefit of being able to access funds from his 
pension immediately, outweighed the benefits of staying within the DB scheme.
Mr P complained in 2020 to BRG about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
following a valuation of his SIPP being sent to him, he realised he would have been 
financially better off if he had not made the decision to transfer his pension.
BRG didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said in summary, that it had provided suitable advice 
at the time considering Mr Ps financial position and plan to pay off existing debt. He also 
planned to increase his contributions towards a separate workplace pension that he held 
when his debt had been paid, and this would increase his provisions at retirement.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought BRG had acted 
reasonably in advising Mr P to transfer out of the DB scheme considering his need to pay off 
existing debt. But the investigator also thought the scheme Mr P was transferring to wasnt 
suitable for him, and therefore that the complaint should be partially upheld. 
BRG provided some additional information including literature that explained its processes 
and relationships with other businesses, but this did not persuade the investigator to change 
their opinion, so this complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
BRG explained that the critical yield required to match Mr Ps benefits at age 65 was 14.9% 
if he took a full pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.3% per year for 8 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr P giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. I think Mr P was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ps best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Access to tax-free cash (TFC)
Mr P had significant debts, which were causing him financial difficulty, he had already 
exhausted other potential possibilities of raising funds and as he had previously been 
declared bankrupt his lending options were limited. As Mr P planned on paying off his debt 
with the TFC that would become available to him, I think he had a genuine need to access 
his TFC earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his remaining funds 
invested until a later date. By accessing his TFC, Mr P wouldve been able to clear some, or 
even all his debts and live more comfortably.
Although this meant Mr Ps overall retirement benefits would most likely be lower in the long 
term compared to if he had stayed in the DB scheme, Im satisfied that it was reasonable to 
advise him to transfer his pension to alleviate his immediate financial concerns. 
Mr P was planning to use TFC from his pension to reduce his debt as a last resort having 
considered the alternatives that were available to him. So, I think the advice BRG gave him 
to transfer out of the DB scheme was reasonable.Suitability of the receiving pension 
The FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued in 
March 2011 about assessing suitability, about how firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling 
tools to establish their clients attitude to risk (ATR). The FCA said that firms should have a 
robust process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to questions 
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated.
BRG assessed Mr Ps attitude to risk as medium stating he had some knowledge and 
experience of savings and investments and how they work in practice.
Ive reviewed the information gathered by BRG at the time. But it seems to me that BRGs 
assessment of Mr Ps ATR was mostly based on the outcome of the fact find carried out by 
F. This gave him a score of 6 out of 10, which equates to medium-high.
I dont think that was reasonable or in line with the FCAs guidance. The information 
gathered contained contradictions including that he had experience in making investments 
and pension decisions, and had an understanding about how these worked, when other 
information collected stated Mr P had no savings, or opportunity to make pension related 
investment decisions in the scheme he was a member of. Overall, the information collected 
doesnt indicate Mr P wanted to take a more than average risk.
As there was conflicting information BRG should have checked to gain a better knowledge of 
what Mr Ps ATR really was. Mr P also had limited other pension provisions and therefore a 
low capacity for the loss of the pension funds. With this in mind, I think Mr Ps attitude to risk 
should have been assessed as low  medium.
The scheme BRG advised Mr P to transfer his pension to was appropriate for someone with 
a medium ATR. But as Ive stated above, I think Mr Ps attitude to risk was incorrectly 
assessed and considering his circumstances at the time I think he should have been 
assessed as having a low  medium ATR.
The information available suggests Mr P didnt have any significant investment experience. He also 
had a low capacity for loss and there was already a risk the funds wouldnt last through retirement, so 
keeping costs low would have been important. The overall charges in this arrangement were between 
2-3% which would have heavily reduced returns. And Im not persuaded Mr P had the need for such a 
complex and expensive arrangement. Which warranted these additional costs. 
With this in mind while I think the advice to leave the DB scheme was suitable. I dont think 
the advice to transfer to the chosen scheme was appropriate, there were lower risk funds 
that attracted lower associated management costs available at the time that would have 
been more suitable. 
I appreciate F was advising Mr P on the investments and both F and the DFM were also 
regulated firms who had their own regulatory obligations. I acknowledge that they might be 
separately responsible for Mr Ps losses. However, both firms are in liquidation and Im 
deciding the complaint against BRG. I think BRG could have avoided Mr Ps losses. As I 
explained above, I dont think a DFM arrangement was suitable for Mr P and BRG should 
have advised him accordingly.  So, with suitable advice I think Mr P wouldnt have ended up 
in the DFM and in the position he is in now. So, in the circumstances of this case I consider it 
fair and reasonable that BRG compensates Mr P for all his losses. If BRG feel other firms also at fault here, they are free to pursue them directly after they have compensated Mr P in 
full.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must BRG do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, BRG must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
BRG should add interest as set out below:
BRG should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If BRG is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr P £350 for the distress and inconvenience the inappropriate advice has 
caused him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BRG deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. BRG should give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SVS 
Securities 
Growth 
PortfolioI understand 
another firm 
has taken 
over the 
remaining 
fundsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, BRG should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there 
is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if BRG totals 
all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean that Mr P 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Better Retirement Group Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Better Retirement Group Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman