DRN-2213364
The complaint
Mr S Complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), to transfer his occupational final salary pension (FSP) into a Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). And that he was advised to invest in unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS). When I make reference to Mr S, this includes the representative he 
appointed to act on his behalf. 
What happened
In 2012 Portal advised Mr S on transferring his FSP (£110,798) into a SIPP. A Know Your 
Customer (KYC) investigation, Attitude to Risk (ATR) assessment was carried out by Portal. 
They spoke to Mr S over the telephone as part of their process.  And following this they 
compiled their suitability report. During this process, Mr S informed Portal that he was living 
in rented accommodation and had no investments other than his FSP. 
Portal recommended Mr S keep his FSP, but as he wanted to proceed and was aware of the 
risks, hed be treated as an Insistent Client. Portal then recommended that Mr S:
Transfer his existing pension fund into a SIPP;
Crystallise £60,000 of his fund in order to release the tax-free cash (TFC) sum of 
£15,000;
Leave £50,798 un-crystallised; and
Leave the residual fund invested until such a time when he required an income 
(therefore no income was to be taken at the time).
Portal then went on to recommend an investment portfolio to match Mr Ss current risk and 
reward profile. Explaining that this would have greater long-term flexibility to maintain Mr Ss 
pension in line with his risk and reward profile. Portal explained that whilst there were risks, 
the SIPP offered by the provider being recommended would allow for access to optimum 
investment opportunities and  maximum flexibility within HMRC rules as they do not 
impose additional restrictions like many other providers. Mr S has told us he approved the 
transfer based on the advice provided by Portal.
In 2019, Mr S complained to Portal as his fund value had reduced to £53.20. He explained 
that he felt the advice provided in 2012 was inappropriate, given his circumstances at the 
time. In response Portal stated Mr S had brought the complaint to them out of time. But 
confirmed that if the issues with interest payments from the funds werent resolved by the 
time Mr S reaches state retirement age, theyd personally pay Mr S a retirement income, 
based on the originally expected performance of the funds and the prevailing annuity rates. 
They further confirmed theyd make these payments until the fund situation was resolved 
and Mr S wouldnt need to reimburse Portal for the payments made at any future date.   
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought the complaint to us. It was decided that Mr S wasnt time-
barred. And in summary, our investigator stated:
Mr S couldnt be classed as an insistent client as there wasnt enough evidence to 
suggest he was sufficiently qualified or experienced to make the decision to transfer 
his FSP;
The instruction to proceed with the transfer should have been made in Mr Ss 
handwriting  rather than him signing a form drafted by Portal. Given how this was 
executed it didnt demonstrate that he understood the implications of the document;
Under COBS 9, Portal had a duty to take reasonable steps to ensure that they made 
a suitable recommendation to Mr S;
Given Mr Ss lack of investment knowledge, Mr S was unlikely to have understood 
the risks associated with the UCIS recommendation;
He was unable to see why making home improvements was seemingly accepted as 
the reason for wanting TFC, even though Mr S had stated he wasnt a home owner; 
and
Mr S was unlikely to have proceeded with the transfer of his FSP if Portal had 
refused to facilitate the transaction.
Our investigator concluded that the transfer was unnecessary and placed Mr Ss pension 
benefits under a level of risk that was not acceptable. And set out what they needed to do to 
put things right. In summary, they should carry out a loss assessment. This should be done 
in accordance with the guidance laid down by the industry regulator, for the review and 
redress of unsuitable occupation pension transfer. Deducting the £15,000 TFC Mr S 
received in 2012. And as the majority of Mr Ss pension fund is illiquid (that is, it cannot be 
exchanged for cash easily), it should be treated as having a value of £0.  
With regards to any loss identified, our investigator went on to recommend that Portal should 
put the redress payment in Mr Ss SIPP. And explained what to do if this wasnt possible. It 
was explained that adjustments should be made for income tax. And it should be assumed 
that Mr S was a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. 
It was also recommended that Portal should take ownership of the illiquid investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. And meet the costs 
associated with this undertaking. If this wasnt possible, our investigator then set out the 
appropriate alternative course of action to be taken by Portal. In addition to this, it was 
recommended that Portal pay £200 to Mr S for the trouble and upset caused.
Portal didnt object to the argument put forward by our investigator with reference to the 
investments and their suitability. But they did question the proposed redress methodology. 
They maintained Mr S was an insistent client and was warned about the loss of guarantees if 
he proceeded with the transaction. Concluding that the advice to transfer couldnt be 
attributed to them, as Mr S was advised against the transfer. 
That said, they stated they wouldnt object to redress being calculated based on the loss of 
growth against a benchmark suggested by this Service, rather than the final salary based 
methodology put forward. Mr S rejected this offer, so this has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of Portals KYC investigation, Mr S informed them that he was 58, divorced, had no 
financially dependent children. He lived in rented accomodation and was employed, earning over £1000 per month. He had no investments or liquid assets  apart from his FSP (value 
at the time of the transfer was £110,798).
Before I can decide how redress is to be calculated, I first need to consider whether Mr S 
was an insistent client as stated by Portal. Following that, if Mr S has been treated unfairly 
by Portal, I will then consider how redress is to be paid. 
Insistent Client
I have reviewed the suitability report and the insistent client declaration. And whilst I can see 
Portal recommended against the transfer, I have some concerns about their processes in 
this instance. 
Portal have said they treated Mr S like an insistent client. And at the time of this transfer, 
COBS 9 didnt include a specific rule on insistent clients. That said, COBS 2.1.1R required a 
firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client. Whilst firms are permitted to conduct business on an insistent client basis, the client 
must understand the consequences of proceeding and going against the advice given.   
The suitability report stated (under heading attitude to risk) Mr S was deemed to have a 
balanced attitude to risk meaning he was likely to have a moderate level of knowledge about 
financial matters. And he was likely to take a gamble provided that the potential rewards 
from the gamble are high enough. I cannot see how Portal reached that conclusion. 
Mr S informed Portal that he:
Disagreed with the statement I find investment matters easy to understand;
Disagreed with the statement I feel comfortable about investing in the stock markets;
Disagreed with the statement I feel comfortable about investing in property;
Disagreed with the statement I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn 
substantial return;
Agreed with the statement I prefer alternative investments which are considered to 
be less volatile, even if it reduces liquidity; and
Agreed with the statement I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive 
made.
But he also agreed with statements such as:
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity;
Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving
I am of the view that this doesnt match the responses one would expect of someone who 
fully understands the implications of these statements. Some of the statements, when paired 
are contradictory and Mr S has still ticked them. For example, he has said he tends to be 
anxious about the investment decisions hes made and that he finds it hard to understand 
investment matters. He also stated he was less likely to take substantial financial risk to earn 
substantial returns. And he agreed with the statement I prefer alternative investments which 
are considered to be less volatile, even if it reduces liquidity. Yet, he also stated hed rather 
take his chances with high risk investments than increase the amount hes saving.
Consequently, I dont think Mr S had sufficient financial or investment knowledge or 
understanding. And therefore, I do not agree that he understood the implications of this 
transfer.I then need to consider whether, as Portal state, they made it clear about the loss of 
guarantees if Mr S transferred out of his FSP. In the suitability report Portal state:
You are aware that by taking this amount now, you will not have a guaranteed pension
benefit, which you do currently have through your defined benefit (otherwise known as
final salary) pension scheme. You stated that you are aware of the benefits that you are
giving up, and that you wish to proceed on this basis, even though I have advised that It is
extremely unlikely that we will be able to match the required annual return (the critical
yield of 13.79%).
However, I do not think enough was done to paint a balanced picture. On the one hand 
Portal state Mr S shouldnt transfer as it is extremely unlikely that they could match the 
criticle yield his FSP was going to provide of 13.79%. But the suitability report then sets out 
the possible returns from the four UCIS investment opportunities recommended. 
UCIS investment one  11% compound return;
UCIS investment two  50-100% capital growth;
UCIS investment three  18% estimated return per year; and 
UCIS investment four  a yield of 8% per year for the first three years and then 10% 
per year.
Portal stated that this would have greater long-term flexibility to maintain Mr Ss pension in 
line with his risk and reward profile. Portal explained that whilst there were risks, the SIPP 
offered by the provider being recommended would allow for access to optimum investment 
opportunities and  maximum flexibility within HMRC rules as they do not impose additional 
restrictions like many other providers. I dont think this helps to explain the risks of 
transferring out of Mr Ss FSP. The UCIS investment opportunities sound appealing and this 
paints a misleading picture. 
The report also says:
Due to the benefits you are giving up by transferring your pension scheme, we recommend
that you keep your pension benefits where they are. However, as you still wish to proceed
with the transfer we will treat you as an 'Insistent Client'. 
Mr S didnt provide written instruction to proceed with the transfer. Portal provided a form 
drafted by them, to be signed by Mr S. It therefore isnt possible to ascertain whether at the 
time of the transfer, Mr S understood the ramifications of the transfer he was instructing 
Portal to carry out. Or that he understood what was meant by the term insistent client. Mr S 
had indicated that he found it hard to understand investment matters. And as I said 
previously, the responses also suggest a lack of understanding. And his investment portfolio 
at the time of the transfer also suggests he wasnt familiar with investment opportunities.
Portal didnt communicate with Mr S in a way that was clear or that took into consideration 
his information needs. In the report it also states:
I would normally recommend that you leave your pension benefits where they are as this
will be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, during our telephone conversation
you advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in taking your benefits now but due to
your current circumstances you would like to take your benefits immediately.
To say one would normally advise against the transfer but then immediately qualify why the 
transfer is proceeding, suggests its a safe investment choice to proceed. This is misleading. With reference to Mr Ss circumstances, I am concerned that Portal thought home 
improvements was an acceptable reason for Mr S needing to take TFC. Portal were made 
aware that Mr S didnt own his own home. So, needing funds to make home improvements, 
when Mr S was in rented accommodation doesnt make sense. Further, I cannot see that 
any effort was made to see if Mr S may have been able to access his FSP early. Whilst I am 
not saying this would have been possible, it isnt unheard of, so should have been explored 
as a possibility. 
Also, if Portal felt the TFC route was truly in Mr Ss best interest, why not recommend the 
transfer and proceed without the insistent client label? I can only conclude that they didnt 
believe the transfer was in Mr Ss best interest and so in proceeding, they failed to fulfil their 
duty under COBS 2.1.1R.
For these reasons, I do not think there is any evidence to suggest Mr S could be classed as 
an insistent client.
Suitability of advice
I have explained why Mr S was not an insistent client. And Portal are not disputing the 
arguments put forward by our investigator, setting out why the UCIS investments werent 
suitable in this instance. And I would agree that they were not suitable. As such this neednt 
be considered any further. 
If Mr S had received suitable advice, taking into consideration the benefits linked to his FSP 
and his investment history/ portfolio; it is more likely that he would have remained in his FSP 
scheme. Therefore the loss calculation should be done against Mr Ss FSP and not a 
benchmark.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons provided, a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr S, as 
far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider 
he would have remained in the occupational scheme. In addition, Portal should pay Mr S 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends this month to update the inflation assumptions used in 
this guidance. This could materially affect the amount of compensation due. Portal must 
therefore take into account any amendments to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, 
Portal must re-run the calculation within a month of the amended guidance being published 
 ensuring that any shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly made up to 
Mr S. (Portal need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments currently 
planned by the FCA. Portal does not subsequently need to recalculate following any further 
amendments the regulator might later make). Alternatively, Portal may wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr S in 
this case. 
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr S.
If Portal chooses to wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance before 
calculating and paying the compensation, the 90 days will start from the date the FCA 
publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr S to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr S can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr S an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
If after carrying out these calculations Portal find the total loss exceeds the total award I can 
make of £160,000 (although this is unlikely), I cant direct Portal to pay the full amount to 
Mr S. For complaints brought to this Service on or after 1 April 2019 regarding something 
that took place before 1 April 2019, the most I can direct the business to pay is £160,000. 
Therefore, as the transfer took place in 2012, it is caught by the £160,000 cap. Mr S will 
need to consider this before deciding whether he wishes to accept my decision. 
 
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000 plus any interest that I think is appropriate. And/ or costs that I 
consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an 
amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount is more than £160,000, I also recommend 
that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr S the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. 
My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman