DRN-3798315
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Car Insurance (UKI) 
treated him when they settled a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident as he hit the back of a third partys vehicle at a set of traffic 
lights. He accepted responsibility but complained when UKI said they would report a fault 
claim to the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). He said only minimal damage was 
caused to the third partys vehicle, so UKI shouldnt have settled the claim in the way that 
they did. He also said he had photographs from the accident which should have been 
considered by UKI before the claim was settled. 
In response to the complaint, UKI paid Mr L £250 compensation as they said their customer 
service fell below their usual standards in terms of the updates they gave and their 
communication with him throughout. However, they didnt agree to change the information 
they'd reported to CUE and said they'd acted fairly by settling the other sides repair costs 
despite Mr Ls concerns. They also explained that they would have considered his 
photographs, but they didnt receive them despite a few requests. The third partys insurer 
provided an engineers report to support the damage claimed for, and they settled the claim 
quickly to avoid any further costs.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. Before 
reaching his opinion, he shared Mr Ls pictures with UKI, and they provided comments from 
an internal engineer in response. These comments suggested UKIs decision to settle the 
claim was fair, based on the damage identified. After considering this information and the 
engineers report provided by the third party, the investigator didnt see any grounds for 
concluding the claim had been settled unfairly. He also said £250 was a fair amount of 
compensation to address the poor customer service UKI provided.
Mr L disagreed and repeated his concerns about the damage reported. In summary, he 
suggested the damage was present before the accident took place, and the third party had 
acted fraudulently by claiming for the damage they did.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't my place to decide who is liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, that 
would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether UKI have applied the 
terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with the claim 
fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between UKI and Mr L - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, UKI can independently decide whether to defend a 
claim or settle it. This might mean UKI makes a decision that Mr L disagrees with, as has 
happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance policies allow 
insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably 
investigate a claim and consider all the available evidence before settling it.
Mr L has acknowledged he caused the accident by driving into the back of the third partys 
vehicle at a set of traffic lights. So, Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably by accepting liability 
and agreeing to pay for the third partys damage. 
I appreciate Mr L feels strongly that the damage was exaggerated and potentially fraudulent, 
but Im satisfied this isnt supported by the available evidence. As Mr L is aware, the third 
party provided UKI with an engineers report to show the necessary repairs, before the claim 
was settled. Having reviewed this report, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably by relying on it 
as the damage appears to be consistent with the circumstances of the accident. As 
mentioned above, UKI have also since reviewed Mr Ls photographs and provided 
comments from their own engineer that support UKIs decision to settle the claim. So, while I 
appreciate Mr L feels strongly that hes been treated unfairly, I dont agree. Its also worth 
noting that regardless of the amount UKI settled the claim for, they'd still have reported a 
fault claim to CUE as Mr L accepted responsibility for the accident and they werent able to 
recover their costs.
UKI have accepted they let Mr L down in relation to the customer service they provided and 
paid him £250 to reflect this. Having carefully considered the impact of their errors, Im 
satisfied this was a fair amount, so I dont direct them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman