DRN-4454029
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of G, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money he lost as 
the result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr R has used a representative to bring this complaint to this service. For ease, I will refer 
solely to Mr R in this decision.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the details of the scam I will not repeat them in full here. In 
summary, Mr R responded to an advert he saw on social media and decided to invest in 
cryptocurrency. On 16 November 2022 he sent three payments of £5,000, £10,000 and 
£5,000 to a new account in his name that the scammer had helped him open at an e-money 
institution, using remote access software. When he was later asked for £7,500 to cover fees 
and taxes - before he could access his investment - he realised he had been scammed and 
reported this to Lloyds.
Lloyds said as the payments were made to an account in Mr Rs own name it could not raise 
this as a CRM (Contingent Reimbursement Model) claim. It said he should contact the        
e-money institution to see if it can recover any funds. It said Mr R should have done more to 
check if the investment was legitimate, and the payments were from a business account so 
large transactions are often to be expected.
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint in part. She said Lloyds ought to have intervened 
at the time of the second payment as it was out of character for the account. And it had done 
so effectively it could have prevented the losses from that point onwards.
Mr R accepted this assessment. Lloyds disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It 
said it cannot be held liable for authorised payments Mr R was aware of and had intended to 
make to his own account. There was nothing suspicious about the activity that ought to have 
triggered the banks intervention.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr R made and authorised the payments. Mr R knew why he
was making the payments. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
he was transferring money to a new account he had set up and from there he would be able 
to invest via a cryptocurrency trading platform. I dont dispute Mr R was scammed and he 
wasnt making the payments for the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the 
transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Lloyds has an obligation to follow Mr Rs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr R is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the payments 
were not made to an account held by another person the principles of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code do not apply in this case.
This means I think that Lloyds should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I think Lloyds ought to be held liable in part for the transactions. Ill explain
why.
When Mr R made the second payment of £10,000 I think Lloyds ought to have intervened. 
There were no payments close to that value from the account in the last 12 months, and it 
meant the total he was transferring to a new payee in one day was £15,000. 
Lloyds argues that it had no reason to intervene as the payments were made to an account 
in Mr Rs name. But Im not persuaded that the fact the payment was going to Mr Rs own 
account and so appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control should have 
satisfied Lloyds that he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by this time, banks had, or 
ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these types of investment scams 
work  including that a customer often moves money to an account in their own name before 
moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. 
Lloyds also said as it was a business account higher value debits were not unusual  but we 
would expect it to consider the actual account history of G, rather than business accounts in 
general. And in that context I am satisfied the second payment was out of character.
Ive then thought about what would have happened if Lloyds had intervened and asked
proportionate questions when Mr R made the £10,000 payment request. I see no reason 
why Mr R wouldnt have told the truth. I think Lloyds should have asked Mr R questions to 
understand the basic context of the payment, such as how he found out about the 
investment; what he understood about the investment and the expected return; why and how 
he had opened the new e-money account he was moving money to; and whether or not the 
investment firm was regulated. And I think Lloyds would have warned Mr R about the risks 
involved in trading in cryptocurrency and the prevalence of scams in this area.
If Lloyds had done this I think its more likely than not Gs losses from the second and third 
payments would have been avoided. From an effective intervention it would have learnt Mr R 
was responding to an advert on social media; he had downloaded software to allow the 
scammer to assist him; he had not completed much due diligence bar asking a friend who 
was a financial adviser for his opinion (they had said they could not advise him, they looked 
through the website together and he flagged it was not a UK regulated firm); and he would 
have been unable to talk with any specificity about the returns he expected. So there were a number of red flags for Lloyds given the depth of knowledge it had about such scams, 
compared to Mr R.
Lloyds argues that there were negative reviews online at the time which ought to have 
stopped Mr R, but there were also positive reviews. And the company was not added to the 
FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) warning list until January 2023  so after Mr R made his 
decision to invest.
Overall, I think an effective intervention from Lloyds would have broken the spell of the scam 
and prevented Mr R from suffering £15,000 of financial harm. 
Should Mr R bear some responsibility for his loss?
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr R should share responsibility for his loss. On
balance, I dont think he should. I say this because:
Mr R was an inexperienced investor and didnt know what kind of checks he needed
to complete to protect himself from cruel scammers.
He was only able to open a crypto account and start trading once he had supplied 
proof of identification. This made Mr R believe the opportunity was genuine as he 
thought only a legitimate financial institution would do such checks. I appreciate that 
asking for proof of identification is a trick played by scammers to make a scam 
appear legitimate and to entice a victim to part with funds, but Mr R wasnt aware of 
this.
Mr R has said he was able to log into an online trading platform and could see how
his investment was performing. It looked legitimate and made Mr R think he was
dealing with a genuine company. The documentation, such as the trading terms and 
conditions, he received was also convincing to a lay person and new investor.  
It is important to remember Lloyds is the expert in fraud prevention, and not Mr R.
Did Lloyds do what it could to recover Mr Rs funds?
In this case Mr Rs funds went to his account at a legitimate e-money institution and
were then moved out of this account with the scammers assistance. In the circumstances, I 
dont consider there was any prospect of Lloyds recovering Mr Rs funds.
In summary I find the second payment ought to have triggered Lloyds to intervene and had it
done so it could have prevented £15,000 of Mr Rs losses.
Putting things right
Lloyds must therefore refund £15,000 and pay interest on the amount at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of the second and third transactions to the date of settlement 
(less tax if properly deductible).
My final decision
I am upholding Gs complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf of 
G, to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman