DRN-3945033
The complaint
Miss F and Mr S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited declined a claim for 
their dogs treatment for investigation of allergies in May 2022, as they said it was a pre-
existing condition. Miss F and Mr S disagree and want their claim to be paid.
What happened
Miss F and Mr S have insurance for their dog with RSA. Their cover started on 1 April 2021. 
In early May 2022 Miss F and Mr S took their dog to the vet as he was scratching and licking 
his groin. The vet thought that this was due to allergies and recommended allergy testing. 
Miss F and Mr S summited a claim for the cost of the treatment and investigations to RSA. 
This was declined as RSA said their dog had suffered from allergies before his cover 
commenced. So it was a pre-existing condition and wasnt covered by the policy.
After the claim was rejected Miss F and Mr Ss vet wrote a letter to RSA stating their dog 
presented with otitis externa, inflammation of the ear canal, in 2020, which was treated with 
ear drops. And no allergies were noted or diagnosed.
Miss F and Mr S didnt agree with RSAs rejection of their claim and raised a complaint. This 
wasnt upheld. RSA said the terms and conditions of Miss F and Mr Ss policy clearly defined 
what was considered to be a pre-existing condition. And they said that based on the dogs 
clinical records hed had problems with his ears in 2018 and 2020 before the policy started. 
In August 2021 it was noted he was scratching++ all over. In September 2021 hed been 
given antihistamines but was noted to still be itching. Then in May 2022 hed had further 
problems and the investigations into allergies were recommended.
RSA said their in-house vets had reviewed the dogs medical history and had said that 
allergies were the most common trigger for the ear problems the dog had in 2018. And their 
view was that allergies were the proximate (main) cause of the ear infections hed had 
before the policy commenced. So the problem was pre-existing and not covered by Miss F 
and Mr Ss policy.
After RSA sent their final response letter Miss F and Mr Ss vet sent an email to RSA, dated 
26 July 2022. In this he said that he saw their dog on 17 December 2018, when he 
presented with pruritic (itchy) ears. He said this episode was preceded by the dog swimming 
in a local water source. And although allergies can be a cause of ear infections, theyre not 
the only cause, and he was confident swimming and wet ear canals were the cause of the 
problem. And he didnt see how a diagnosis of allergies four years later could be linked to 
otitis externa in 2018, especially as there are no clinical notes to indicate other signs of 
allergies at the time.
RSA replied to Miss F and Mr Ss vet on 27 July 2022 saying they agreed that there are 
multiple causes of otitis externa. But said that theres no reference to swimming in the dogs 
records about his ear infections. That there are entries in his records in 2018, 2020 and 2021 
showing a pattern of allergies. And theyd based their decision on the balance of probability, 
given the dogs history and his ultimate diagnosis.
RSA werent prepared to review their decision to decline Miss F and Mr Ss claim, so they 
complained to our service.
Before giving their opinion, our investigator asked Miss F and Mr S to ask their vet to confirm 
why hed said their dogs ear problems were linked to swimming, when this isnt noted in his 
records. RSA told us theyd asked him this question and hadnt received a reply. The vet 
replied on 7 November 2022 saying that his comments regarding the dog swimming before 
his initial presentation in 2018 were based on his recollection of the events. Hed reviewed 
his initial correspondence, this remained the case, and he couldnt add anything further.
Our investigator then provided her opinion and upheld the complaint. She said she wasnt 
convinced that Miss F and Mr S would reasonably have thought that the ear infections their 
dog had before the policy started, were caused by an allergy and might lead to a claim for 
this in the future. She was persuaded by the treating vets opinion that the cause of the ear 
infections was excessive moisture and that a diagnosis of allergies four years later, couldnt 
be linked to an episode of otitis externa in 2018. 
And she felt RSA had unfairly applied the pre-existing condition exclusion. So she said RSA 
should pay Miss F and Mr Ss claim for their vets fees subject to any policy limits and 
applicable excess, together with 8% interest on any sums theyd paid from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement. And RSA should also pay £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience their handling of the claim had caused. 
Miss F and Mr S accepted our investigators opinion, but RSA didnt. RSA provided a copy of 
an article about the causes of otitis externa. They said the dog didnt just have one episode 
of otitis externa, there was another episode in October 2020, before the start of the policy. 
And theres a further note in the clinical records on 9 August 2021 saying usually suffers 
from ear issues  allergies likely given history. 
They say a vet is unlikely to suspect allergies based on one episode of skin problems in 
August 2021, allergies were suspected because of the previous episodes of otitis. And that 
the vets were aware the dog had ongoing issues. They say surlon but mean surolan is 
prescribed for bacterial, fungal, yeast and ear mite infections in dogs and cats. And this was 
prescribed in 2018 and again in 2020. And they also say the dog had issues with his anal 
glands in 2021 which is a known indicator of skin issues. Finally, in relation to the episodes 
of otitis externa they say theres no mention of swimming in the clinical records and both 
episodes occurred in winter.
Our investigator provided a copy of RSAs comments to Miss F and Mr S. In response theyd 
said the following: -
Their dog doesnt have ear disease and their vet has never said that he has. There 
was no pattern of any recurring or chronic ear infections, just two episodes 23 
months apart.
In November 2018 he had wax and hair in his ears. Tests showed he had a fungal 
infection which was treated, and it cleared up.
In October 2020 he had a further ear infection which their vet has said was likely to 
be caused by swimming. This was treated with drops for a week and cleared up.
Cultures were taken by their vets to establish the cause of the ear infections and 
theres no evidence these were caused by allergies.
Vets notes tend to be brief. But when asked to provide further information their vet has said that based on his recollection the dog had been swimming before each 
episode of otitis externa.
They totally disagree that the issue their dog had with his anal glands was an 
indication of skin issues. And theyve provided information about the most common 
causes of this problem.
The case then came to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 January 2023 and in it I said: -
The issue for me to consider in this case is whether, based on Miss F and Mr Ss dogs 
clinical records he had a pre-existing condition when his policy started in April 2021. And if 
he did whether it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim for investigation and treatment 
of allergies. 
The terms and conditions of their policy state that health issues, concerns, illnesses and 
injuries which a consumer or their vet were aware of before the policy was taken out arent 
covered. The policy says these are pre-existing conditions and they are: -
Signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses.
Existing illnesses.
Existing physical abnormalities.
Existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health issues 
or injuries.
Illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or 
physical abnormalities.
RSA are aware of our approach in respect of pre-existing conditions. And that we consider it 
fair for an insurer to decline a claim where a consumer had reasonable knowledge, when 
taking out the policy of something that they may need to claim for in the future.
Prior to the policy being taken out the dog had two episodes of otitis externa. The first in 
November 2018 and the second in October 2020. As Miss F and Mr L have said these 
episodes were 23 months apart. And theres no mention in the records of any ongoing 
issues with the dogs ears in the intervening period.
Miss F and Mr Ss vet is clear that he didnt consider these episodes to be related to 
allergies. And I accept what Miss F and Mr S have told us about the second of these 
episodes being related to the dog going swimming, which their vet has confirmed is his 
recollection of what occurred. 
RSA have accepted that otitis externa can have many causes. But they say that in this case 
the cause was the allergies that the dog was later diagnosed as suffering from. So he had a 
pre-existing condition which isnt covered by the policy.
But in deciding if Miss F and Mr Ss dog had a pre-existing condition, I have to consider 
whether, when they took out the policy, they could reasonably have known he had a 
condition theyd have to claim for. And Im not persuaded that they did.
I dont think two episodes of otitis externa, 23 months apart, which appear to have resolved quickly with treatment, would have made Miss F and Mr S think that their dog had a problem 
with allergies which theyd need to claim for in the future. Theyve told us they believed the 
2018 episode to be related to hair and wax in his ears, and the 2020 episode to be related to 
water in his ears after hed been swimming. This seems entirely reasonable and is supported 
by their vet. And I prefer the evidence from the vet who treated their dog, over the research 
carried out by RSAs claims handler into the causes of otitis externa. 
The dog needed his anal glands emptied in June 2021 and in August 2021 these were noted 
to be bothering him again, and he was scratching ++ all over. The note in his records for 9 
August 2021 also says usually suffers with ear issues. RSA have relied on this entry to say 
that the dog had ongoing chronic ear issues which were related to allergies which are first 
mentioned in the records on this date. I dont know exactly what the vet meant by this entry, 
but theres simply no evidence from the clinical records that the dog had ongoing issues with 
his ears. And its noted on this date that his ears were fine.
The entry for 9 August 2021 goes on to say Skin a little chronically inflamed in groin and 
axilla etc. Allergies likely given history. Once again, its not entirely clear what history the vet 
was referring to. Its noted that the owner said always worse when hotter so likely seasonal. 
They may have been referring to this, but theres still no evidence that Miss F and Mr S were 
aware their dogs had allergies theyd need to claim for when they took out their policy.
It's clear that from June 2021 the dog needed to have his anal glands emptied on a fairly 
regular basis. But Im not persuaded by RSAs statement that this is a known indicator of 
skin issues. They havent provided any veterinary evidence to support this statement. Miss F 
and Mr S have said this is a common issue with some dogs and I accept this. And even if it 
was an indicator of skin problems, the first time it occurred was June 2021, some months 
after the policy started.
Finally, RSA have said the policy regards pre-existing issues as those that Miss F and Mr S 
or their vet were aware of before they took out the policy. They say that Miss F and Mr Ss 
vet was aware that the dog had ongoing issues. Ive set out above what our approach to pre-
existing issues is. And Ive said that I dont think Miss F and Mr Ss could reasonably have 
known when they took out the policy that their dog had allergies theyd need to claim for. 
Their vets have said theyd been no diagnosis of allergies, so its unclear why RSA say the 
vets knew there was an ongoing condition. And its Miss F and Mr Ss knowledge thats 
relevant here.
So I dont think RSA acted reasonably in declining Miss F and Mr Ss claim for their dogs 
treatment in May 2022. 
Miss F and Mr S have lifetime cover for their dog so they can continue to claim for the same 
or new treatment each year as the vet fee limit reinstates every time they renew their policy. 
So as Ive said allergies werent a pre-existing condition when Miss F and Mr S took out their 
policy, I dont expect RSA to raise this as an issue if there are future claims relating to this 
condition.
And I require RSA to pay Miss F and Mr Ss claim for their dogs treatment in May 2022 
together with 8% interest on any sums theyve paid from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Miss F and Mr S have told us theyve suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of how 
RSA have handled their claim, and I accept this. And taking everything into account I think 
£150 is the appropriate level of compensation. 
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss F and Mr Ss complaint.Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. RSA have said they strongly 
disagree with it but feel theyve exhausted the medical evidence they can provide, and this is 
being ignored or overlooked. So they say theyve paid Miss F and Mr Ss claim along with 
8% interest and the £150 compensation.
Miss F and Mr S have told us they accept my provisional decision but have asked me to 
comment on the further vets fees theyve incurred relating to their dogs treatment for 
allergies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that RSA are unhappy with my provisional decision but its simply not correct 
that Ive ignored or overlooked the medical evidence theyve provided. Ive considered the 
veterinary evidence provided by both parties. And having done this Im not persuaded that 
the two episodes of otitis externa Miss F and Mr Ss dog suffered in 2018 and 2020, were 
caused by allergies. RSAs vet may disagree, but I prefer the evidence of Miss F and Mr Ss 
vet who treated the dog. 
As I said in my provisional decision, theres no evidence in the dogs clinical records to 
persuade me that Miss F and Mr S would have known when they took out their policy with 
RSA, that theyve have to make a claim for allergies in the future. And on this basis, I remain 
of the opinion that the dog didnt have a pre-existing condition. So RSA didnt act fairly when 
they declined Miss F and Mr Ss claim. 
I can only consider the complaint Miss F and Mr S have made to RSA. Ive said that as they 
have a lifetime policy for their dog, I dont expect RSA to raise allergies as a pre-existing 
condition in relation to any further claims Miss F and Mr S submit in relation to that condition. 
But theyll need to submit any claims to RSA for them to assess, I cant deal with them in this 
decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right I require RSA to pay Miss F and Mr Ss May 2022 claim for investigation 
and treatment of their dogs allergies subject to any excess and policy limit, together with 8% 
interest on any sums theyve paid from the date of payment until the date of settlement. And 
to pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their handling of the claim has 
called. 
Miss F and Mr F have a lifetime policy for their dog, and Ive said that he doesnt have a pre-
existing condition. So I dont expect RSA to raise allergies as a pre-existing condition in 
respect of any further claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss F and Mr Ss complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Limited and to take the 
steps detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman