DRN-2953795
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly closed his bank 
accounts with it.
What happened
On 9 April 2020, an incident took place at a branch where Halifax didnt think Mr Bs 
behaviour was appropriate. As a result, it decided to close his account within a short time.
Mr B was unhappy with this for several reasons.
1. No evidence has been given to show he was inside the branch. And he questions the 
basis on which Halifax can claim improper behaviour outside the branch
2. No incident of verbal abuse can have occurred. 
3. He wasnt given the opportunity to respond to the allegations or appeal the decision. 
4. Even if he had verbally abused staff, the penalty was disproportionate. 
Mr B complained to Halifax. It didnt change the decision but did give him until 9 July 2020 
therefore extending the time he had before the accounts were closed to organise the switch 
of his accounts. However, Mr B says there were issues with switching.
1. His accounts were closed before the switches completed. 
2. The balance in his accounts was sent to him by cheque in the post - rather than 
transferred to the new accounts - and so he was deprived of access to these funds.
Mr B thinks Halifax has acted in a way to purposefully cause inconvenience and financial 
embarrassment to him and his wife. 
Mr B further complained to Halifax. It responded to say no switch requests were received by 
9 July and, as the account funds werent transferred by him before account closure, it posted 
a cheque for the balance to him. Halifax accepted Mr B was given conflicting information 
when he enquired about where the funds had gone and, to put this right, it paid him £100.
Mr B brought the complaint to our service. The investigator considered everything and didnt 
uphold his complaint  she didnt feel the business needed to do more to put things right.
Mr B maintained his position. Hes also unhappy Halifax has failed to send our service CCTV 
footage (the footage) of the incident despite him being aware that its available. And he says 
the delays in providing evidence on the part of Halifax call into question the authenticity of 
what Halifax has done.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr B that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
I think its important to keep in mind that the events here happened during the early stages of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Very few businesses were open to customers entering their 
premises and the rules and guidance were frequently changing. The pandemic itself 
presented huge challenges and these were  and are  unprecedented times for everyone. 
Businesses, such as banks, had to adapt so they could continue to offer essential services 
and their customers also had to adjust their everyday lives. 
the incident
The account terms allow Halifax to close an account, without notice, if a customer has 
behaved improperly such as been threatening or abusive towards its staff. This is what it 
referred to in its initial letter to Mr B in relation to the incident on 9 April 2020. Mr B says this 
wasnt fair so Ive considered the incident and also set out my findings on the decision to 
close his accounts below.
On 9 April 2020, Mr B went to a Halifax branch. Halifax say he was waiting for a family 
member who was inside the branch. 
Halifax say a staff member asked Mr B to stand away from the doorway, to allow customers 
safe entry and exit, due to the current pandemic situation. Mr B felt he was two metres away 
and the colleague was asking him to do something outside of the building and so had no 
right to do this. At the time of the incident, the police were patrolling the area and they were 
asked by another staff member to give support. This was because the staff members 
involved felt Mr Bs manner was very aggressive in tone and he became louder as the 
conversation continued. They felt very intimidated by him. The notes say another customer 
using the machine interjected, acknowledging the colleagues distress, and making a 
comment that Mr B should be more respectful in the current climate as the colleague was 
trying her best.
Rather than explain what happened from his perspective, Mr B has commented on what he 
feels the footage shows and Ive thought about this carefully. Mr B also says Halifax has 
failed to prove a number of matters.
Its not entirely clear what happened on 9 April when Mr B arrived at the branch. I say this 
because although Halifax have provided copies of its internal investigation into what 
happened, no independent witness statements have been provided. There are also conflicts 
between what is shown in the notes of Halifax and what Mr B says is shown on the footage.
Mr B denies being verbally abusive but both parties have acknowledged that there was an 
interaction outside the branch and a disagreement which related to whether Mr B was giving 
customers of the bank enough space to meet social distancing guidelines. The staff member 
didnt think he was but Mr B thought hed done more than what was needed. Mr B also questions the basis on which Halifax can claim improper behaviour outside the 
branch. And Halifax say Mr B told the staff member they had no right to ask him to do 
something which was outside the branch. So, I think its likely this was also part of the 
disagreement between Mr B and the staff member. 
I appreciate Mr B says the footage shows he was calm, in control and emotionally detached 
and therefore he was more likely the victim of verbal abuse. But, even if it were possible to 
deduce this from footage, it doesnt mean a customer cant also be aggressive in tone or 
raising their voice. Nor does it mean the staff werent intimidated by him.  
People have different and varying degrees of tolerance when it comes to feeling threatened 
or abused. And its not my role to dictate what Halifax should consider behaving improperly 
or threatening or abusive behaviour. Its entitled to decide what behaviour it will tolerate 
and what it wont. 
I note Mr B says the footage shows the staff member had a go, got quite agitated and 
harangued him. These are unprecedented times and staff and customers nerves are bound 
to be frayed but thats no excuse for rudeness or unprofessional behaviour, if indeed this is 
what happened. Equally, itd be reasonable if a staff member  when feeling intimidated  
appeared agitated and acted differently to how they might otherwise at work.
Ive also kept in mind that the staff member felt strongly enough about what was happening 
to seek assistance from the police and report the incident to senior management.
Overall, I think its more likely something happened between Mr B and the Halifax staff 
members outside the branch on 9 April which they interpreted as threatening or abusive 
behaviour towards them. As a result, I find Halifax acted fairly, reasonably and within the 
terms of its banking relationship by choosing to close his accounts. 
Further, I think its also important to explain its generally for banks to decide whether it 
wants to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to a customer. And its evident 
the relationship between Mr B and the branch staff had broken down. Having decided it 
didnt want to continue the relationship with Mr B, Halifax ultimately gave Mr B more than two 
months notice this was going to happen. And this is the notice required under its terms to 
close an account for any reason. This also supports my finding that Halifax acted fairly, 
reasonably and within the terms of its banking relationship.
In summary, I dont think Halifaxs decision to close Mr Bs accounts was unfair. And,
in doing so, it acted in line with its terms and conditions.
Halifaxs authority outside the branch
Mr B questions the basis on which Halifax can claim improper behaviour outside the branch 
and says he was exercising his rights to use a public space. 
Again, I refer to the context of what was happening at the time. In March 2020, the 
government issued rules for everyone to follow to keep safe during the COVID 19 pandemic. 
The two-metre social distancing requirement was included in the rules. It was also a rule that 
people should stay at home and only leave if they really needed to and for very limited 
reasons. 
Those businesses which were permitted to stay open to customers would have been 
required to carry out COVID 19 risk assessments and adopt appropriate safeguards to 
protect staff and customers. Its fair to assume businesses wouldve considered, amongst 
other things, the movement and flow of customers through its premises and how it should reduce face to face contact for staff. And how businesses, including Halifax, did this was 
entirely within their discretion. 
Halifax also owe a duty of care towards its staff to minimise their risk of exposure to the virus 
and this meant it had to restrict the number of people inside a branch at any time. This 
inevitably led many businesses  including Halifax  to cause a queue to build up outside the 
entrance.  Practices to deal with this varied from one business to another. However, all 
major high street businesses adopted the two-metre rule and sought to appropriately 
manage the queues which formed.
Therefore, its my view Halifax acted reasonably by asking people to queue outside whilst 
waiting to enter the branch and in taking some responsibility for keeping its customers safe. I 
consider a way of doing this was by asking those who werent queueing to leave a clear 
space for people queuing, entering and leaving the branch to make their way past. 
Its my view that a member of Halifaxs staff should, in the course of their work, feel free from 
threatening or abusive behaviour. This is particularly so when acting in the unprecedented 
capacity of the pandemic and the increased risks it brought to those providing essential 
services in a customer facing environment. So, I dont consider Halifax did anything wrong in 
considering Mr Bs behaviour outside its branch when deciding whether to continue their 
banking relationship.
closure notice
In view of the reasons for closing Mr Bs accounts, the terms and conditions allow Halifax to 
take this step immediately and without notice. However, I can see that, from the point Halifax 
first wrote to Mr B with its decision to close his accounts, they arent closed until around 
three months later. Halifax say this was extended notice to allow Mr B time to make 
alternative arrangements during a pandemic. So, I think Halifax acted reasonably here.
Mr B says the account closure letter refers to one account number, but both of his accounts 
were closed. Ive noted that in the complaint response from April 2020, Halifax says all 
current and savings accounts, either in joint or so names, will be closed so I consider it was 
sufficiently clear in April what would happen on 9 July 2020.
switching
Having reviewed everything, I cant see Halifax did anything wrong in closing the accounts 
when it did. Nor in sending the balance to Mr B in the post. This is because it hadnt received 
any request to switch his account before the deadline to close them. I note Halifax has paid 
Mr B compensation of £100 for the service hed received when trying to find out what had 
happened with the balance in his accounts and I consider this adequately compensates him 
for any distress and inconvenience caused by this.
CCTV footage
Our investigator asked Halifax for the footage on a number of occasions since Mr B brought 
his complaint to our service. On all occasions, I can see that Halifax has said it was no 
longer available. Most recently, it explains this is because the disc holding a copy of the 
footage was sent to Mr B and no further copies were retained. Mr B hasnt sent a copy of the 
footage to our service although, as referred to above, Ive seen a letter where he describes 
his view on what the footage shows.I understand Mr B thinks the footage is important to this complaint and considers Halifaxs 
failure to provide it to this service is suspicious. But, as set out above, I dont think its 
presence  or lack of  makes a material difference to reaching a fair outcome here. 
Mr B might take his concerns up with the Information Commissioners Office and thats a 
matter for him.
other matters
Much has been said by Mr B about Halifaxs actions in this matter and whether they have 
been done with the aim of causing inconvenience and financial embarrassment to him and 
his wife. I havent found anything malicious in Halifaxs actions. I also dont think it likely a 
large high street bank, such as Halifax, would take a coordinated and sustained approach 
against Mr B for this purpose. I say this particularly as the matter has involved many staff 
members across different areas of the business and various processes.
Mr B has mentioned an account with his wife was closed and also an issue with a payment 
made on an account she is an account holder for. A complaint about matters relating to his 
wifes account or a joint account would need to be raised with Halifax in the first instance and 
brought to our service by all account holder(s). They cannot be considered as part of Mr Bs 
complaint.
I accept Mr B will be disappointed, but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear. My 
decision now ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Halifax  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint to our service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman