DRN-4177109
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund her for 
transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between December 2022 and February 2023, Mrs Hs Halifax account was used to make 
transactions to various gambling sites. When she complained to Halifax, she said there were 
four people in the house who had access to her phone, but the transactions were made by 
her ex-partner who had unlocked the phone by placing it near her face to activate the face 
ID. She said she was forced into doing this as she was scared he would become violent and 
she didn't want the children to hear.
Halifax said that when Mrs H reported the payments to it, she said she had completed some 
of the payments, so she had authorised those payments. But Mrs H wasnt satisfied and so 
she complained to this service. She said she had gambled with her wages and as the 
payments were still pending, she didnt understand why the bank couldnt cancel them.
Halifax further commented that Mrs H had said shed allowed her ex-partner to make the 
initial transactions, but she didn't agree to all of them. It maintained Mrs H had authorised 
the transactions, therefore it was unable to provide a refund.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mrs H accepted 
that her card, account, and device were used and she commented that she had facilitated 
the payments by transferring money into the account from her current account. She 
explained that duress doesnt negate the payers authorisation for the purposes of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and she was satisfied Mrs H had consented 
to the payments either by making them herself or allowing her ex-partner to use her phone to 
make the transactions.
Our investigator also explained that Mrs H accepted shed given the ex-partner the details to 
unlock her phone and access her stored passwords when he had taken her handbag and 
phone in December 2022, so she was satisfied shed shared her personal banking 
information and was therefore in breach of the T&Cs of the account.
And she said it wouldnt have made a difference if Halifax had applied a gambling block to 
the account because the payments were to a gambling site outside of the UK and the 
gambling block only works for regulated gambling sites within the UK.
Mrs H has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She said she allowed 
her ex-partner access to her phone because she was scared and she is upset that Halifax 
never spoke to her on the phone about her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
The PSRs primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise 
payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  like the issue around 
apparent authority, which has an impact on this complaint.
Mrs H has given various explanations as to how the transactions were made. When she first 
contacted this service, she said she had used her wages for gambling, so Im satisfied that 
she authorised those transactions for the purposes of the of the PSRs. 
She has also said she authorised her ex-partner to make some of the transactions and that 
there were other people in the house who had access to her phone. The PSRs say that 
someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mrs H can be treated as acting with apparent 
authority when making transactions on their account. Authority consists of two elements. The 
transactions must be authenticated, and Mrs H needs to have consented to the payments 
being made. 
Im satisfied the transactions were authenticated from the information provided to us by 
Halifax. In other words, Mrs Hs genuine card details were used to make the transactions 
using her mobile phone from the same IP address that she used for her genuine account 
activity. And Im satisfied that in transferring money from her current account and giving 
other people access to her phone to gain access to her security details, Mrs H granted 
apparent authority to them to make the transactions. 
Mrs H has also said that the ex-partner stole her handbag and phone in December 2022 and 
that he was able to make transactions because she had given him the details to unlock her 
phone. As Mrs H accepts she gave the ex-partner the details to unlock her phone, I agree 
with our investigator that in sharing her personal banking information, she was in breach of 
the T&Cs of her bank account.
Mrs H has also said that some of the payments were made when her ex-partner trapped her 
in her bedroom and used her face to unlock the phone using the face ID. She has explained 
she allowed him to do this because she was scared he would become violent and she didnt 
want the children to hear. 
There are circumstances where a third party has obtained security information without the 
customers knowledge or involvement, but that didnt apply here because Mrs H would have 
known the ex-partner was using her face to unlock her mobile phone. If the evidence points 
to Mrs H having withdrawn apparent authority, wed probably say the payment was 
unauthorised. But I must bear in mind that Mrs H accepts that she previously authorised her 
ex-partner to make transactions using her phone, and theres no evidence that she withdrew 
apparent authority. Theres also no way to distinguish this incident from those instances 
when she accepts either she made the transactions herself or granted apparent authority to 
her ex-partner to do so. Further, she has given different accounts about how the transactions 
were made and she has admitted to breaching the T&Cs of the account by giving the ex-
partner the details he needed to unlock her phone. After taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mrs H 
authorised the transactions herself or otherwise allowed them to be made by someone with 
apparent authority. I know this is a difficult message for Mrs H to receive but, in the 
circumstances, I think its fair for Halifax to decline a refund in this case
Compensation
Finally, Mrs H has said she was upset because Halifax didnt speak to her on the phone 
about her complaint, but Ive considered the service she received when she reported the 
disputed transactions and Im satisfied it was reasonable throughout.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman