DRN-1134881
The complaint
Mr H complains about charges applied to his account by Santander UK Plc. Mr H says the 
charges were incurred due to problems with Santander's ATM when trying to deposit cash.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr H complained to Santander about charges it had applied to his account. Mr 
H felt these were unfair as hed previously asked Santander not to allow payments to debit 
his account if he didnt have enough money to cover them. Mr H said Santander shouldve 
offered him an overdraft. Mr H also explained he has difficulties getting around and relies on 
others to deposit money into his account, often via the ATM. Mr H said problems with the 
ATM at his local Santander branch prevented this on multiple occasions.
Santander issued its final response on 7 June 2019 but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Santander said the charges had been correctly applied and there were no ongoing faults 
with its ATM machine. Mr H disputed Santanders response and, on review, it agreed there 
were issues with the ATM. Santander offered Mr H £40 compensation for giving him 
incorrect information in its original response to his complaint.
Mr H remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator said 
Santander had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H 
asked to appeal so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are allowed to charge customers if their account isn't used within the agreed limits. Mr 
H didnt have an arranged overdraft facility on his account and there have been occasions 
when insufficient funds have caused him to enter into an unarranged overdraft.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account say that Santander can charge Mr H for an 
unarranged overdraft. Ive looked at Mr Hs account statements and Im satisfied the charges 
have been applied in line with the terms and conditions. As the charges have been correctly 
applied, Ive considered whether theyre fair in the circumstances Mr H has raised.
Santander has explained that although it refunded charges in the past as a gesture of 
goodwill, it also provided Mr H with information about how to manage his account to avoid 
future charges. Mr H says he asked Santander not to allow payments to debit his account if 
he had insufficient funds. But Santander isnt able to do this for Mr H. There are various 
ways for customers to monitor their account balance and Santander has advised Mr H to get 
in touch if he needs assistance with this. 
Mr H has said Santander shouldve offered him an overdraft. But Santander doesnt give 
advice to customers about whether to take an overdraft, so I dont think it did anything wrong 
by not contacting Mr H to offer him one. The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account explain that customers can contact Santander to request an arranged overdraft, but these are 
approved at Santanders discretion. If Mr H wants to explore this option hell need to contact 
Santander and apply.
Mr H says the technical problems Santander has had with its ATM prevented cash deposits 
being made on various occasions. Ive looked back at Mr Hs account history from 2018 
onwards. I can only find a very limited number of occasions where cash was paid in via the 
ATM at the branch Mr H has mentioned. Having looked at Mr Hs account history, I havent 
found evidence to support he relies on cash deposits made via an ATM to manage his 
account.  
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy he was initially told there was no fault with the ATM and that 
information turned out to be wrong. Santander acknowledged that information it received 
from the branch was incorrect and apologised for that. Santander confirmed there has been 
some intermittent issues with the ATM in question. 
I do understand Mr Hs frustration at initially being given incorrect information. But Im 
satisfied Santander made a genuine mistake. Im not persuaded it intentionally misled Mr H.
The terms of Mr Hs account say if Santander isnt able to provide a service due to causes 
beyond its control it wont be responsible for any losses incurred by customers. There is no 
provision under the terms for Santander to refund Mr Hs overdraft fees because of  a 
problem with its ATM.
Santander offered Mr H £40 and apologised for giving him incorrect information. I'm satisfied 
that's fair in all the circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but the information I've seen shows the charges were correctly 
applied and I think Santander has dealt with his complaint fairly. So Im not asking it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman