DRN-1578172
The complaint
Ms C has complained that she hasnt been able to make a second claim on her income 
protection policy which is administered by Dms Agency Services Ltd (DMS).
What happened
In November 2015, Ms C took out an income protection policy through a third party broker. It 
offered her a monthly benefit of £2,500 for twelve months in the event of a successful claim 
for business closure, along with other income protection benefits. 
DMS acted as the administrator in relation to the policy. The underwriter of the policy was 
UK General Insurance.  
In February 2017, Ms C made a claim on the policy for business closure of her company. 
She was paid twelve months of benefit until February 2018.  
In August 2018, the policy was transferred from UK General Insurance to QUDOS 
Insurance. In January 2019, Ms Cs cover was transferred to Evolution Insurance, as 
QUDOS Insurance had recently gone into liquidation.
In 2019, Ms C pursued a second claim through the broker. However, the claim was declined 
by the underwriter because the policy terms said that a subsequent business closure claim 
could not be permitted. The policy should have ended after the first claim.  
Ms C complained to both DMS and to the broker. She said she had not been told about the 
inability to claim more than once and she shouldnt have paid premiums from August 2018 
onwards once the policy transferred to the next insurer. She also explained she had now lost 
the right to make another claim. 
DMS agreed Ms Cs policy should have ended in 2018, but it disagreed with Ms C as to why. 
It said when it had received the original application from the broker in 2015, Ms C was asked 
was she a shareholder or director of any other company than her current employer. She had 
answered no to that question, but she had in fact been a director of two companies, 
becoming a director of a third two months after the policy was taken out. DMS said Ms C 
was required to tell the insurer about the directorship and if shed have done so it would 
have cancelled her cover. 
DMS said if Ms C had told it about her actual circumstances, it would not have been able to 
arrange the cover with the insurers at all, because the policy terms didnt allow for the 
policyholder to be a director or shareholder of multiple businesses. So, DMS agreed to 
return Ms Cs premiums to her, and in July 2019 it confirmed her policy had been cancelled 
with the refund she had asked for. 
An investigator from this service considered the complaint but she didnt think it should 
succeed. She said she didn't think DMS was responsible for advising Ms C about the policy 
or for the inability to claim more than once. Nor did she think the policy should have 
continued to operate after February 2018, so DMS had been right to return the premiums 
from August 2018 when the policy was transferred to QUDOS  though she did note the 
insurer could have actually returned them from March 2018 and Ms C could take that up with 
the insurer directly.   
Ms C said she didnt agree with the investigators view. She said that the administrator at 
DMS knew her particular circumstances at the relevant times and despite this, he arranged 
for her policy to continue with a new insurer in August 2018. 
Further, she disagreed that she had been working in a different capacity or as a director of 
other companies. Ms C said she worked as a contractor, and the income protection claim 
paid out when her employment with a specific limited company ended.  
So, Ms C submitted that DMS error caused her financial loss, as if she had not been 
switched to another policy, she would have been able to make a second income protection 
claim.  
Our investigator reviewed Ms Cs further comments but wasnt minded to change her view. 
She said she appreciated that DMS sent an email to Ms C on 24 December 2018 outlining 
that the underwriter of the policy would be changing. But she didnt think this was personal 
advice to Ms C or that the underwriter was selected specifically for her policy. All policies of 
this type wouldve been underwritten by a new insurer as QUDOS had gone into 
administration. DMS found a new insurer to underwrite the policies and it administered the 
policies on behalf of the insurer. 
Our investigator said she was otherwise not persuaded to change her view that Ms Cs 
policy should have ended in February 2018 in any event, in accordance with the terms. 
Ms C remained unhappy and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She 
said she felt that DMS was responsible for the policy she had taken out. She therefore said it 
was the fault of DMS that she has been unable to make a claim now and she couldnt agree 
with the reasoning applied by our investigator.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I do wish to pass my best wishes to Ms C. I realise she has been 
(and continues to be) unwell, and I appreciate this has been a particularly stressful time for 
her. Unfortunately, Im not able to uphold her complaint. Like our investigator I dont believe 
that DMS is required to do anything further than it has. Ill explain my reasoning for that 
below.  
Ive carefully looked at the terms applying to Ms Cs cover in relation to her first claim of 
2017. Those policy terms say that:
Making another Claim
If You have already made a claim under this Policy and wish to make another claim, 
the following will apply:
Making another Business Closure Claim
This is not possible with this Policy. At the end of Your Business Closure claim, cover 
under this Policy will end. The policy Ms C took out did not allow her to pursue a second claim, once she had received 
the twelve months of benefit after the first business closure claim. 
So, DMS is not liable for Ms Cs inability to pursue another claim. The policy terms taken out 
through the broker and administrated by DMS make clear that no further claim can be made 
and the policy should have ended after the benefit was paid in full. This was a matter for the 
insurer at the time.   
The compensation Ms C therefore seeks now simply isnt something that could be paid to 
her, even if DMS was responsible for the loss of her ability to make a second claim. If we 
find a business to have acted unreasonably or unfairly in some way then the correct redress 
for that would be to put a consumer back in the position he or she would have been in but for 
the mistake. That position is that the policy should have ended  but the insurer should have 
noted this and stopped Ms Cs policy after her claim ended in February 2018.  
To be clear, DMS did not sell the policy to Ms C, the broker did. It did not operate the policy 
either, that responsibility fell to the insurer. DMS operated as an administrator, whereby it 
acts as an intermediary between the adviser and the underwriting business, produces 
documentation, and deals with all the administrative aspects of the policy. 
Where DMS did make an error is that it failed to notice that the underwriting business should 
have cancelled the cover. And in August 2018, it moved the policy to a different insurer. 
DMS recognises that it caused that error, and it has rightly arranged for Ms Cs policy 
premiums to be returned her because she carried on paying premiums to the new insurers 
after DMS had undertaken its administrative actions by switching the underwriter. I believe 
this is the right resolution for that mistake, and therefore DMS wasnt required to do anything 
further. 
I realise Ms C says she wasnt made aware of the limitations of the policy in respect of 
making multiple claims. If Ms C has concerns about that, she could direct those to the broker 
that sold her the policy, which I believe she may have done already. Likewise, she may wish 
to contact the insurer to clarify why premiums continued to be taken from March 2018 until 
August 2018. 
Despite my sympathy for Ms C, I cannot conclude that DMS ought to do anything further 
beyond compensation for the mistake that it has paid before the complaint was pursued to 
this service, I therefore am not able to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 
20 November 2020.  
Jo Storey
Ombudsman