DRN-3991259
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
unfairly declined a property damage claim made under its pub insurance policy.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of E by its two directors, and multiple 
representatives. For ease, Ill just refer to the company and its agents as E.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents and representatives.
What happened
This complaint concerns a property damage claim made under Es pub insurance policy. E 
has also made a separate complaint to RSA regarding a business interruption insurance 
claim that is also being considered by this Service. For this reason, I wont comment on the 
BII claim within this decision.
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Es business suffered a kitchen fire which damaged the property.
RSA considered the property damage claim. Forensic reports were produced by 
Company H and E provided a witness statement of events. These reports were 
shared with E, and concluded the fire originated from a fryer which had been left on 
overnight.
RSA said there had been a material breach of the Kitchen Equipment requirement of 
the insurance policy which stated power to cooking equipment needed to be shut off 
outside working hours.
So, RSA declined the claim saying it was evident the power had not been shut off 
after hours as it shouldve been. 
E disagreed, saying its operation ran with impeccable standards and adherence to 
rules, regulations and compliance with the terms of the insurance. And it said it had 
outsourced a contractor (Person A) to complete a strict cleaning and maintenance 
schedule once a week.
At this time, E agreed the cause of the fire was leaving the fryer switched on at the 
mains. And hadnt disputed the fryer was left in the on position. But it said it had 
substantially complied with the terms and explained it felt the situation should be 
considered carefully.
E said there were four plugs in the same wall socket as the fryer that were the same 
colour and partially visually obscured by a microwave. These included the fryer, the 
microwave, a fan, and a printer. E said during Person As cleaning routine they had 
inadvertently swapped the plugs, so the fryer plug was now in place where another 
item (a fan) had previously been on the far left of the four available plug sockets.
E said that evening it had turned off the plug it believed to be the fryer (which usually 
sat on the far left), but due to Person As actions, the fryer remained on and it was 
instead another device that was turned off. 
RSAs forensic report disagreed with this version of events. It said the photographic 
evidence taken after the fire showed E was mistaken in its belief the far left-hand 
socket was turned off, as the only socket that was off was the socket furthest right.
So, RSA said any mistake between plugs didnt appear significant as the fryer 
wouldve remained on if the plug for it had remained in the far-left plug socket as E 
suggested it usually was. And it said the appliance plugs may have been similar, but 
the wires wouldve been substantially different (for a fan and printer the leads 
wouldve been much thinner).
E said it had hired a contractor to ensure cleaning standards were met, and it had 
been no fault of Es that the incident had occurred. It argued a principle in law 
(doctrine of substantial compliance and intended use) should apply as E had done 
all that could be reasonably expected of it, but it had failed or faulted in some minor 
or inconsequent aspects which cannot be described as the essence or the 
substance of the requirements.
E argued that if RSA had included terms around plugs, for example to avoid them 
being mixed up or that all plugs should be removed, it wouldve followed these terms 
and the fire would not have occurred.
RSA said it had sought legal opinion, and stood by its position to decline the claim. It 
also said the legal principle E quoted related to Indian taxation law and wasnt 
relevant to English insurance law. RSA also quoted case law which it said showed 
clearly supported its position that policy requirements were clear, and E had simply 
not complied with the requirements, and the non-compliance was material to the loss.
So, the complaint was brought to this Service and one of our Investigators looked 
into what happened.
oHe was satisfied the evidence showed a breach of the Kitchen Equipment 
term had taken place.
oTaking into account the Insurance Act he considered whether the term in 
question was material to the loss. He said the forensic report provided 
indicated the fire was caused by the fryer being left on, and not due to other 
causes such as an electrical fault. And E had provided no conflicting expert 
evidence to the contrary.
oSo, he concluded RSA had fairly declined the claim.
E disagreed. At this time, E changed its representative who made additional 
arguments and retracted some parts of Es previous position.
oThe Kitchen Equipment term was a requirement and not a warranty or 
condition and should be considered as such.
oThe witness statement previously given was made following a distressed 
state and inaccurately concluded Person A had plugged the fryer into the 
wrong socket. E said there was no evidence any of the sockets had been left 
on. And that if it had been switched on as RSA has said, the smell and heat 
wouldve alerted staff, but this hadnt happened 11pm on the evening in 
question when they did their final inspection of the day.
oCompany Hs forensic report does not prove a breach of policy requirement 
had caused the damage in question.
E says the report does not explain how the fryer was involved.
The experts findings were not conclusive as their commentary was limited to considering it more likely than not that the fire started in the 
fryer in question.
Company H had difficulty explaining how the fryer was free of oil and 
had no tide mark. And E said Company H had speculated the oil may 
have drained away if the valve was knocked and left open  which E 
says it would be impossible for this to happen in the location it was.
E and its representatives have since made the following arguments:
oThe wording within the Kitchen Equipment requirement used the word may 
when describing consequences of breach. E says the use of may is a 
breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 which says:
A term which has the object or effect of making an agreement binding 
on the consumer in a case where the provision of services by the 
trader is subject to a condition whose realisation depends on the 
traders will alone.
E argued this wording might persuade a business owner to believe as long as 
they had acted reasonably the requirement would not be enforced.
oE also quoted a Supreme Court judgement that it says supports that it would 
be unfair to have wording in a policy that needs the use of a pedantic 
lawyer who will subject the entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis. 
It said the policy was not clear and it isnt fair for RSA to rely on it as a result.
oICOBs states a policy summary must contain significant exclusions or 
limitations, but RSAs summary didnt mention the Kitchen Equipment 
requirement.
oE argued it never received a copy of the policy document from the year of the 
claim. So, this means E had no knowledge of the requirement and therefore 
cannot be bound by it.
E also provided a copy of a forensic report from May 2022 produced by Company K. 
It includes comments on Company Hs report and findings. E provided this saying it 
showed the fryer switch was equally likely to be off as on. And that Company K 
speculated the true origin of the fire was electrical arcing from a damaged cable. It 
also provided a revised witness statement.
Company H also reviewed Company Ks report. It made its own follow up comments 
defending its position. RSA reiterated there was no dispute the power to the fryer 
was left on by the Insured overnight whilst unattended. And that its expert (Company 
H) had concluded the most likely cause of the fire was the oil in the fryer overheating 
and igniting. So, E had been in breach of its Kitchen Equipment requirement.
So, the matter was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 13 February 2023. Ive included an extract of this below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take 
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having done so, Im not minded to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The crux of Es arguments falls into two categories. RSAs alleged lack of disclosure 
of its Kitchen Equipment condition to E, and concerns about the wording. And RSAs 
decline of the claim, as E disagrees with the forensic evidence RSA has relied upon. 
Ive considered these points in turn.The Kitchen Equipment condition
Es initial signed complaint form to this Service, amongst other 
correspondence Ive been provided with, details Es awareness of the policy 
conditions of its RSA policy and its own efforts to comply with them.
Within its complaint form it said, It is the following of the Policy Conditions to 
the letter that actually led to the fire. It also made representations to the 
effect of E had hired Person A to routinely clean in order to comply with the 
policy.
One of Es directors has also been clear in his statements that he wouldve 
turned off fryers as part of his nightly routine  and that he would do so at 
source (at the wall). And that this was the safest way, and as a result 
found it hard to believe the fryer had been accidently left on.
E also said if RSA had included additional conditions or terms in the policy 
that outlined it should unplug all electrical equipment (amongst other things) it 
wouldve complied with these.
These comments suggest to me that E was aware of the condition in 
question, and that E was acutely aware of the terms of the policy. I note here 
that neither of Es directors objected to these comments being made 
previously, nor reached out to this Service or RSA to say they were not 
accurate at the time they were made.
Since changing representation, E has made the argument that it wasnt aware 
of the terms, these werent clear, and E wasnt provided with a policy book for 
the year of the claim so could never have known of these conditions. And as 
a result, it has asked for this Service to determine that RSAs reliance on the 
terms is unfair.
I will go on to consider these points, but in doing so I will not ignore Es 
previous representations. It seems to me E has been clear its directors 
understand the significance of turning off their fryers as part of their nightly 
routine. So, on its face, even if I agreed RSA couldve drawn more attention to 
the Kitchen Equipment clause, this appears academic and wouldnt appear to 
have impacted the events that unfolded as it seems E was aware of the 
requirement.
The argument from E that it never received a policy book for the year of the 
claim in question hasnt been put to RSA previously (to my knowledge). But 
from my understanding, the policy was in place for several years before the 
event, and the clause in question wouldve likely been in place for the 
previous years given the nature of the policy.
So, even if a policy book wasnt shared with E on a single year, I wouldnt be 
persuaded this means clauses or conditions within it shouldnt apply  
particularly given terms were already in place and shared with E previously.
Similarly, E has argued that such a requirement should be outlined within a 
policy summary. For the reasons Ive given above, even if I was persuaded 
RSA shouldve placed more significance on this requirement within its 
summary, this doesnt persuade me E wasnt aware of the terms. Or, at the 
very least, that such a requirement being highlighted more within a policy 
summary wouldve changed Es actions in how they ran their kitchen, given 
Es statements to the effect of their routine was to turn the fryers off every 
night anyway.However, Ive gone on to consider the available documentation. Es pub 
schedule states it should be read in conjunction with the Statement of Fact 
and Policy wording. 
On page two of the schedule, it lists Premises Applicable Clauses and says 
The following clauses apply to these Premises as detailed under Additional 
Terms and Conditions. One of those listed is the Kitchen Equipment clause.
 Further into the schedule, under the section Additional Terms And 
Conditions it repeats there is a Kitchen Equipment clause. This says:
This clause applies to Property Damage Insurance in this Policy. 
Where cooking equipment is used at the Business Premises Your 
attention is drawn to the Kitchen Equipment conditions detailed in 
Requirements which You must comply with in the Policy wording.
I think this is clear in setting out that such requirements exist within the policy 
wording.
E has argued the Kitchen Equipment terms should be considered as a 
requirement and not a condition. To my mind, a condition of a policy can 
require a policyholder to do something. But I note the above wording 
specifically refers to these terms as conditions anyway, so I see no reason 
to discuss this point further.
The policy wording says it is a requirement of the insurance where cooking 
equipment is used at the Business premises:
all cooking equipment is not left unattended whilst the heat source 
is operating and the power or fuel supply to such equipment is shut off 
outside working hours
And below this, it stated:
Failure to comply with any of these requirements may result in Us not 
paying Your Property Damage claim.
Im satisfied these terms are clear and set out the potential consequences of 
not meeting such a requirement.
E has quoted a Supreme Court judgement that it says highlights it would be 
unfair to apply terms that would require minute textual analysis to discover 
them. I dont agree these terms are unclear or that such analysis is required 
to discover them given RSA has highlighted their significance within the policy 
schedule.
E has suggested the use of the word may in the above requirement is a 
breach of consumer legislation. It is for a court to determine whether a breach 
under such an Act has taken place here. But taking the law into account, Im 
not persuaded such a term is unfair or shouldnt be applicable here. I would 
also comment that I think the term clearly conveys that if the requirement isnt 
met  RSA will have the right to decline the claim and this is the key point of 
the term. And to be clear, if I was persuaded RSA had applied this term, or 
any other, unfairly or unreasonably, my direction dealing with the claim would 
reflect this.
Es representatives have also argued the word may may have led E to 
believe RSA would pay out on such a claim if it had acted reasonably in line 
with the terms. This is counter to its other arguments that E never saw such 
terms  so this hasnt changed my mind.The claim and origin of the fire
Ive outlined the relevant condition that applies in this case above. I have to 
consider whether the evidence RSA has relied upon in declining this claim is 
sufficient in stating the fryer in question was left with power going to it 
overnight in breach of the policy terms. This means I have to decide if theres 
enough to fairly say the fryer in question was plugged in, turned on, and was 
the source of the fire.
E and RSA have disputed facts around the fire and how it took place. So, Ive 
considered the evidence provided in turn.
The first forensic report produced was from Company H in August 2019. This 
is a detailed report that outlines events leading to the fire, and contains 
photographs and details of the authors inspection following the Fire Brigade 
attendance.
It concludes the fire began in the fryer in question, and was likely caused by 
oil in the pan overheating and igniting  following being left on overnight.
Within its conclusion, Company H says it wished to obtain a witness 
statement from one of Es directors, and to obtain details of the fryer in 
question with a view to undertaking tests on the same model.
The witness statement from E was obtained. Within which, Es director details 
their version of events (some of which Ive described above). In summary, he 
says he would turn off fryers as part of his routine, and would do so at 
source (at the wall). And he said this was the safest way, and as a result 
found it hard to believe the fryer had been accidently left on. There was also 
speculation from E about the plugs being mixed up by Person A.
Company H produced a follow up report in November 2019. This included 
many photos of the damaged kitchen. There is a photo of the power socket in 
question which Company H says shows the power for the fryer was on, and 
the fryers control spindle that it says shows it was left in the on position. Ive 
included a section of the commentary below which refers to the photographs 
within the report  that has been seen by E  and in response to Es witness 
statement.
It is clear that [E] finds it hard to believe that the fryer was 
accidentally left switched on. I accept and understand this and 
assume that he would normally have switched it off, but the evidence 
speaks for itself; the socket was switched on (Photograph 9). It is also 
clear from inspection of the fryer (Photograph 10), the position of its 
control spindle (Photograph 11) and inspection of the thermostats 
internal parts that the fryer was switched on. There is also evidence of 
welded contacts (Photograph 12) to indicate that the control 
thermostat failed at some stage, since the contact would have been 
open if the thermostat had operated normally.
Company H also commented that at the time E was unable to provide the 
identity of the make of the fryer or locate any documentation, packaging or 
receipt of purchase.
And Company H commented on the impact of plugs being mixed up as 
insignificant given the left plug point (which E had understood to be the fryers 
power source) was left on. This point has since fallen away as E now states 
this wasnt the case.I find the evidence put forward by Company H to be detailed and well-
reasoned in reaching its conclusion. And while I recognise the testimony put 
forward by Es directors about not noticing the fryer in question being left on, I 
find this report to be more persuasive in showing that it was left on and 
plugged in  against the terms of the policy.
Ive then considered Company Ks report from May 2022. This is also a 
detailed report, but I note the review is more limited in nature given the time 
that had passed. It comments on Company Hs report and findings and in 
summary says:
oThe electricity supply to the fryer was switched on, and the fryer is 
located within the fire origin. But said the actual mechanism for the fire 
was unclear.
oIt agreed the power to the fryer was on during the fire, but said it was 
not certain if the fryer itself was switched on or not and would depend 
on how the knob is fitted to the spindle and whether or not the spindle 
has been knocked or moved post-fire. It agreed the fryer thermostat 
contacts were welded together. And notes Company H believed the 
thermostat was in the on position which although I can see the 
rationale for, it critically assumes the flattened channel for the spindle 
faces either the OFF position or its opposite.
oIt said the apparent physical evidence contradicted Company Hs view 
the fire had started by overheating of the fryer oil.
oThe documentation Company K had been provided with was relatively 
poor. It said it was unclear why Company H did not recover the fryer 
tank given the fire/heat damage patterns that are on it. And as a 
result, Company K was unable to comment further how the fire may 
have started.
oThe power cable to the fryer in question was detached and brittle in 
places. and one possibility for the cause was due to the power supply 
cable.
E has also made comments about Company Ks findings, saying the fryer 
switch was equally likely to be off as on. And that Company K had 
speculated the true origin of the fire was electrical arcing from a damaged 
cable. I acknowledge Company K says a cable was a possible cause, but I 
dont think its comments are conclusive on this point as E has suggested.
Es revised witness statement says he had been told by Company H the fryer 
was switched on at the unit  so his previous comments about mixing up of 
plugs was based on speculation and he no longer attributed this to Person A. 
He said on the day in question, he had no memory of how he powered off the 
fryer. And that he may have turned it off from the fryer unit rather than mess 
around with the plug at the socket. Ive taken these comments on board.
Company H also reviewed Company Ks report. It made the following 
comments:
oOne of Es directors had said they usually left the fryer controls in the 
on position.
oIts comments about the fryers control spindle being on were based on 
a fryer with identical physical features and provided photos to support 
this. And that the spindles of both fryers in the area were in the same 
position.oThe cable may have been lost amongst fire debris.
oIt agreed the lack of residual oil and grease in the fryer was difficult to 
explain but said this could be explained by the oil burning away slowly 
with the heating element de-energised.
oOn the subject of the power supply cable it said fuses in the mains 
plugs for the fryer and extension lead were both intact. If electrical 
insulation on a mains flex or other wiring was damaged, and it failed, I 
would expect one of the fuses to have operated. I would also expect 
one of the fuses to have operated when insulation failed during the 
fire, so the fuse evidence is not easy to explain.
Company H concluded:
If no-one interfered with the fryer controls before my visit, it is now 
clear from my inspection of the [fryer] that the right-hand (incident) 
fryer had been left switched-on overnight, while unattended. The 
position of the temperature controls of both the left-hand and right-
hand fryers is consistent with [Es director]s account of him normally 
switching off the fryers at their respective socket outlets, rather than at 
their thermostats, so in my opinion it is unlikely that the position of 
either of the control spindles was altered by anyone prior to my scene 
visit.
I remain of the view it is most likely that oil in the fryer overheated and 
ignited, and caused the fire, but there are still some slightly puzzling 
aspects to the evidence and the precise way in which the fire occurred 
remains unclear to me. Given the puzzling aspects and the lack of 
certainty, in my view a fire caused by a fault with the fixed wiring 
cannot be excluded completely."
Having reviewed all of the evidence, it appears to me both Company H and 
Company Ks experts agree that the fryer in question had power going to the 
unit at the time of the fire. Es director has commented that they would turn 
this off by the source (the wall plug) in his own statements previously but it 
appears this didnt take place on the day of the fire. Company H believes the 
evidence available supports the fryer in question was left in the on position 
and this is supported by the spindle of another fryer in Es kitchen, as well 
as an apparent matching unit. I think this evidence outweighs Company Ks 
argument on this point as a result.
So, Im satisfied that the power to the fryer was on, and the unit itself was in 
the on position.
E has challenged that the fire has taken place due to the residual oil/grease 
levels within the fryer in question. Im satisfied Company H has answered 
these points and still concluded in their expert opinion that the most likely 
cause was the fryer which was in the undisputed area of the origin of the fire. 
E has commented that Company Hs comments do not reach certainty. I have 
to look at matters based on the balance of probabilities  and here, Im 
satisfied Company Hs conclusions are the most likely version of events 
based on everything provided. This is not to say all other causes can be ruled 
out  but the expert evidence (and all information provided) doesnt lead me 
to any other cause being the most likely one.
For all of these reasons, Im satisfied RSAs decline of this property damage 
claim is fair. And Im not intending to ask it to do anything further.I gave both parties until 27 February 2023 to provide any further commentary or 
representations for me to consider. This deadline has now passed.
RSA said it had no further comments to make. Es current representatives responded to say 
they disagreed with my provisional findings. Ive summarised their position below.
Es current representatives say it believes it would be wrong to rely too heavily on 
information provided by the former representatives. It says the former 
representatives had effectively resigned following our Investigators initial 
assessment. It goes on to say one of the complaint forms provided to this Service 
(which I had quoted as saying it was following of the policy conditions to the letter 
that had led to the fire) was a creation of the initial representative and not E. And that 
it doesnt have record of any comment from E saying it wouldve complied with 
additional conditions about leaving electrics unplugged had these been specified.
E says the Kitchen Equipment requirement was never brought to Es attention in line 
with ICOBS 6.1. And that my findings relied on Es directors statement that they 
routinely turned off the electrical appliances at source which is good practice  not 
their knowledge of the condition.
E quoted its directors initial witness statement which said I have been made aware 
of the particular condition  which E says the implication of the statement is that its 
director only became aware of these terms after the fire.
E has made reference to the policy document and schedule, and says the Kitchen 
Equipment requirement is not presented clearly and says it demands an unnecessary 
amount of effort to locate it within the policy wording.
E reiterates that ICOBS 6 Annex 2 sets out what should be included within a policy 
summary. And this should include significant or unusual exclusions or limitations. It 
says this Kitchen Equipment Requirement is significant and from the policy 
summaries it had seen since 2018, this wasnt drawn to Es attention. So it said a 
breach of FCA rules should be enough to disallow RSA from relying on the Kitchen 
Equipment Requirementas if the Requirement was absent from the policy itself.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why, and in doing so Ill address 
Es representatives most recent response points.
Es current representatives has said I should not rely too heavily on information 
provided by its predecessors. And that a complaint form that is signed by one of Es 
directors should be considered as a work of the former representative.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, I will again note that neither of Es directors 
objected to these comments being made previously, nor reached out to this Service 
or RSA to say they were not accurate at the time they were made. And it is unclear to 
me why I should place more weight on the submissions put forward by the current 
representatives than the previous ones given they are both fulfilling the same role 
given their versions of events vary so significantly.
I will include a further quote from Es former representative that its directors agreed to 
represent them below to illustrate this point. The facts of the case are that the Insured, [E] operate [the venue], an 
establishment that is operated with impeccable standards and adherence to 
rules, regulation and further in compliance with Insurers Policy Conditions and 
Warranties etc.
And I reiterate, this is one of many representations that E has put forward to RSA 
previously. This is clearly contrary to its current position that Es directors had no idea 
of such a Kitchen Equipment term and had never received a policy book.
I dont think it would be fair to RSA for me to ignore or overlook these 
inconsistencies. So, I have taken all of the arguments and commentary put forward 
by E and all of its agents in reaching my decision.
E argues that its witness statement suggests they had only recently become aware of 
such a term. I agree this is a reasonable interpretation of the statement. And in 
isolation its possible I might be persuaded this demonstrated E wasnt aware of the 
condition. But as Ive outlined, Im not looking at this in isolation and I dont think it 
outweighs clear representations that E and its representatives have put forward that 
clearly state E was aware of its obligations.
In regards to the comments regarding turning off the power at source  E argues that 
a statement about turning off the power each night is not evidence of Es knowledge 
of the condition. But I have covered off this matter in my provisional decision:
even if I was persuaded RSA shouldve placed more significance on this 
requirement within its summary, this doesnt persuade me E wasnt aware of 
the terms. Or, at the very least, that such a requirement being highlighted 
more within a policy summary wouldve changed Es actions in how they ran 
their kitchen, given Es statements to the effect of their routine was to turn the 
fryers off every night anyway.
E has reiterated it believes that an absence of the Kitchen Condition requirement 
should mean that the term in question is effectively absent from the policy terms. But 
this isnt the approach of this Service. 
We look to see if something has gone wrong, and if it has, we will consider what 
impact this has made when looking to put things right. And again, as I have outlined 
in the quote above and within my provisional decision, E has been clear that its 
director sought to turn off the power of the fryer in question each night. And Es 
current representatives have agreed fryers are a major source of restaurant fires. 
So, whether I agreed that RSA shouldve presented this term in a clearer way within 
any of its documentation, Im simply not satisfied this wouldve changed anything. 
And this is because Es directors were aware of the risks of leaving a fryer on, and 
have explained that their intention would be to turn this off  which I dont doubt given 
the risks involved. 
For all of these reasons, Im satisfied RSAs decline of this property damage claim is 
fair. And Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 Jack Baldry
Ombudsman