DRN-1239270
 
The complaint
Ms J says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when she took out a credit card in December 2001. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in December 2001. The policy was 
added to Ms Js credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy cost 
79p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Js case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
I think Barclays made Ms J aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  
although I can understand why she can no longer remember this nearly 20 years later. I say 
this because Ive seen a copy of the application form, and can see that she selected PPI 
before signing the application form in December 2001.
Ms J says that the ticks on the application form arent hers, and it isnt credible that someone 
would select two conflicting options on the form. I dont have any way of knowing with 
certainty that Ms J made the ticks, but, on balance, Im satisfied its more likely than not that 
she chose to purchase PPI. And as the PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements, then had the PPI been added to her account without either her knowledge or her 
consent, I would have expected her to query or challenge this in the first few months after 
the account was opened. Furthermore, the two optional products are the application form 
arent contradictory  theyre two separate and different insurance products, and the 
evidence suggests Ms J chose to purchase them both.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the PPI was optional and that Ms J 
chose to purchase it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms J  she chose to buy it herself on a postal 
application form  so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. Ms J needed to make that 
decision herself.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ms J chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations which might have made it 
unattractive to her  she told us she was employed and in good health  so she wouldnt 
have been affected by any terms relating to existing health conditions or unusual working 
practices. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if she wasnt working because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment  this policy wouldve paid out in addition to her 
limited employer benefits and allowed her to use any savings she may have had for other 
more pressing matters at what would be a stressful time.
Ms J told us she couldve relied on her family if the need arose  she told us that the family 
income was very high. Ive considered this very carefully, but I have to tell Ms J that there 
could be no guarantee that her familys circumstances would allow this at some unknown 
point in the future. And the evidence Ms J sent me simply shows that the high family income 
was needed to support high family expenditure  a substantial mortgage and independent 
school fees. So I dont think the policy wouldnt have been useful to her.
The policy was also competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Ms J 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think she would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Ms Js comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman