DRN-3592994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a commercial mortgage they hold with Santander UK Plc 
on a mixed use commercial and residential property, from which they originally ran a 
business. They are unhappy that Santander didnt agreed to convert the mortgage to a 
residential one, following the business ceasing to trade in 2009 and at various points since. 
They made this request to obtain lower interest rates and consider they have paid much 
more in interest than they should have. They have now been told that nothing can be done 
because the remaining term on the mortgage is less than the minimum five-year term for a 
residential mortgage. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs B arranged a commercial mortgage to purchase a property that was 
partially commercial, from which they ran a business, and partially residential. The interest 
charged on the mortgage was calculated at 4% above the Financial House base rate, with a 
floor of 5.5%, which meant that was the lowest rate of interest that would be charged. The 
floor rate was later reduced to 5%. The mortgage had a term that ran to 28 May 2023.
Due to Mr and Mrs B suffering financial difficulties in 2008, Santander agreed that they could 
pay just interest on the mortgage for a year. This was extended for a further three months at 
Mr and Mrs Bs request. Theyve told us that they also enquired whether the mortgage could 
be converted to a residential mortgage later that year after they stopped operating a 
business form the property, but were told that it couldnt be. Santander dont have records of 
these discussions.
In 2012 it appears that Mr and Mrs B discussed their plans for the property and the site with 
Santander. This was, having obtained planning permission, that they intended to build a 
number of properties on the site and sell them. This plan didnt go ahead.
Mr and Mrs B next contacted Santander about their mortgage in 2015. They set out the 
changes to their circumstances and asked if they could transfer or convert their mortgage to 
a residential one. They set out that the comparatively lower interest rates would then allow 
them to clear the mortgage debt earlier than the current rate would allow. Santander told 
them that due to the commercial element of the property it would fall outside the criteria for a 
residential mortgage.  
In 2019 Santander informed Mr and Mrs B that the interest rate on their mortgage would be 
linked to Bank of England base rate going forward, rather than the Financial House base 
rate. It was confirmed that the 5% floor on the interest payable would continue to apply.
Mr and Mrs B complained about the interest rate they were paying on the mortgage. Also 
they raised that their previous requests to change their mortgage to a residential one to 
obtain lower rates was denied. 
Santander provided Mr and Mrs B with some information about whether re-mortgaging their 
property to a residential basis would be an option. It highlighted that the minimum term 
available for a residential mortgage was five years. It explained that as there was only just 
over two years on the existing commercial mortgage, the cost of a residential mortgage with 
a longer term would be greater than if they kept their existing mortgage. Mr and Mrs B 
confirmed that in light of this, they would stick with their existing mortgage. 
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in its letter of 20 October 2020. It 
confirmed there had been discussion on 5 June 2020 about refinancing the existing 
mortgage, but that no advice had been given. In addition, Mr and Mrs B had been told about 
factors that might affect them being able to refinance to Santander residential, but they had 
the option to refinance to another lender. It was also confirmed in that conversation that 
Santander didnt have access to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage file due to the Covid-19 remote 
working, and that as soon as the restrictions were lifted and it was able to review the file, it 
would do so.  In relation to the interest rate being charged in and of itself, Santander 
considered that the complaint had been made too late. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Santanders response and replied to its conclusions. 
Santander issued a further letter on 17 December 2020, but it didnt change its position on 
any of the complaint points. Subsequently, the complaint was referred to this service.
Questions were raised about whether the complaint fell within our jurisdiction and so one of 
my ombudsman colleagues considered that issue. He concluded that the complaint fell 
within our jurisdiction, but only in regard to the events and interest applied to the mortgage 
over the six years prior to the complaint being made in 2020. 
The investigator went on to consider what had happened with the mortgage and the interest 
rates applied from 2014. This was because in order to do what they wanted, the property 
had to be acceptable for a residential mortgage and they had to go through the process of 
applying. He was satisfied that in 2015 the property hadnt fitted with Santanders residential 
lending criteria and so the decision not to allow a residential application wasnt wrong. As for 
2020, Santander had given Mr and Mrs B information to allow them to decide whether to 
progress an application, which they chose not to do because it would have cost them more 
money over an extended term. The investigator concluded that Santander had treated Mr 
and Mrs B fairly.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They initially disputed that they 
had only been paying 5% interest on the mortgage and put forward that the letter they 
received at the end of 2019, which had prompted their complaint, said that they were paying 
10%. They also said that changing to a residential mortgage hadnt been the purpose of 
asking for that to be done, but rather their purpose was to reduce the interest rate they were 
paying. In addition, they told us that the areas of the property that had been used for 
commercial purposes were gutted following the business closing and were used for domestic 
storage thereafter. As such, they believed the property should have been considered 
residential. In support of this they provided a copy of a letter where they detailed that the 
Valuation Office Agency (VOA) visited the property in 2010 and was reported to have 
accepted the property ceased to have any commercial use after April 2009. However, they 
were unable to provide any confirmation of this from the VOA or to evidence the condition of 
the property at that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
In light of my ombudsman colleagues conclusions regarding jurisdiction, I would confirm at 
this stage that I will only be considering the activities and interest rate relating to the 
mortgage over the six years from 2014.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B took out a commercial mortgage in 2002. I have detailed the basic terms of the 
mortgage above; Mr and Mrs B accepted those terms. That included that the interest rate 
wouldnt drop below 5.5%, although this was subsequently changed to 5%. While that 
mortgage is in place, there was nothing wrong with Santander applying the terms and 
conditions that Mr and Mrs B accepted in 2002. While Mr and Mrs B have said they are 
currently being charged 10% interest on the mortgage, I havent seen any evidence of this 
and the correspondence from the end of 2019 confirm they were paying 5%.
It appears that Mr and Mrs B mentioned changing to a residential mortgage twice during the 
period I am considering  in 2015 and 2020. This process wouldnt be as simple as 
Mr and Mrs B appear to think, as it wouldnt simply be an administrative matter of changing 
the label on the mortgage from commercial to residential. They would need to apply for a 
residential mortgage with the relevant business area of Santander. The application would be 
subject to the lending criteria at the time of the application, including whether the property 
was considered suitable as security for the money lent.
As our investigator explained, lenders are allowed to decide what risks they are willing to 
accept when determining what types of properties they will lend against. There is nothing 
wrong with this and as long as the criteria is applied fairly to all applications, we wouldnt 
look to interfere with any decisions made. I would also comment that many lenders wont 
give residential mortgages on properties that have a mixed use, whether the commercial part 
of the property is being used for that purpose at the time or not. In 2015 Mr and Mrs B were 
told that they couldnt have a residential mortgage because of the nature of the property, i.e. 
although a business wasnt then being run from the property, it was still considered to have a 
commercial use. This information effectively stopped Mr and Mrs B from applying to 
Santander for a residential mortgage on the property, but that wasnt an inappropriate thing 
for Santander to do. I say this as where a lender knows at an early stage that a mortgage 
cant be granted, it should inform a consumer in order to save them time and potentially 
money in pursuing an application that has no reasonable prospect of success. I dont think 
Santander treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly in 2015 or acted unreasonably in what it did.
I have noted that Mr and Mrs B have now said that they gutted the commercial part of the 
property when they ceased using it for commercial purposes, so it should not have been 
considered a commercial property. They have also said that they persuaded the VOA that 
the property wasnt being used for commercial purposes. I cant know what condition the 
parts of the property formerly used for their business are in or when any changes were 
made. I would also comment that the VOA accepting that the property wasnt being used for 
commercial purposes, doesnt evidence that it couldnt be. I also note that Mr and Mrs B 
havent said they told Santander in 2015 that the property was no longer a commercial one 
and couldnt be used for that purpose, which I would have expected them to have done if the 
property was in the condition they have now reported. I also note Santanders notes from the 
time dont reflect Mr and Mrs B disputing that the property was a commercial one or that it 
was told they had gutted part of it and so it couldnt be used for that purpose going forward. 
As such, I cant find that Santander was wrong in the information it gave Mr and Mrs B, 
based on the information it had at the time.
As for the request in 2020,n a full application wasnt made, as Santander highlighted that if 
Mr and Mrs B took a residential mortgage on the property it would cost them more money, 
as the term would need to be extended. I again think it was appropriate for Santander to 
point this out to Mr and Mrs B at an early stage so they could make an informed decision 
about whether to make an application. Even had this not been the case, the application 
would have had to be assessed under the lending criteria at the time, which would have included an assessment of the nature of the property, so there would have been no 
guarantee that it would be accepted.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Santander acted inappropriately in its administration of the 
mortgage from 2014 or that it was wrong to point out barriers to Mr and Mrs B re-mortgaging 
the property to a residential basis in 2015 or 2020. Overall, I consider that Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly in its interactions with them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman