DRN-2912637
The complaint
A business, which Ill refer to as A, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC increased the charges 
on its business account without prior notification.  
What happened
Lloyds were charging A a fixed fee of £5 per month. However, from December 2020 they 
increased the level of charges on the account. A wasnt happy about this, especially as 
Lloyds hadnt notified A that the charges would be increasing. So, A raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at As complaint. But they noted that they had sent two letters to A giving 
advance notice that the account charges would be increasing. Because of this, Lloyds didnt 
feel that they had made any form of error, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
A wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. During their correspondence with Lloyds it came to 
light that Lloyds had only sent one letter to A advising of the upcoming charge increases  
rather than the two it had first declared. 
Additionally, it was noticed that the letter that Lloyds had sent made reference to a discount 
that would be applied to the charge increases for the first 12 months, but which hadnt been 
applied to the increased charges on As account. 
Because of these points, Lloyds advised that it would be happy to backdate the promised 
discount as well as make a payment of £150 to A to compensate them for the trouble 
incurred. Our investigator felt Lloyds offer represented a fair and reasonable resolution to 
what had happened. However, A remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must have been frustrating for A to have discovered that the charges on its account had 
increased, especially given that A hadnt received the letter sent by Lloyds in advance of the 
increase in charges which advised that an increase would shortly be taking place.
Lloyds havent been able to provide a copy of the specific letter addressed to A. This isnt 
unusual, and it wouldnt be expected by this service that a business would retain all copies of 
all group mailings  such as this letter was. However, it would be expected that Lloyds would 
be able to provide a copy of the letter template, so that the content of the letter can be 
understood, as well as provide some form of confirmation that the letter was sent.
I think that Lloyds have done that here. Theyve provided this service with a copy of the letter 
template detailing the contents of the letter, and theyve also provided system notes which 
show that a letter was sent out on As account on 5 March 2020. As such Im satisfied that 
its most likely, on balance, that Lloyds did send the letter to A advising A that the account 
charges would be increasing. And while I can appreciate that A have confirmed that they 
didnt receive that letter, it must be noted that this service wouldnt hold a business 
accountable for sent mail that isnt subsequently received.
Furthermore, upon review, Lloyds have acknowledged that the letter sent to A promised a 
discount on the increased charges for the first twelve months, but that this discount wasnt 
applied to As account.
In circumstances such as this  where a business has acknowledged that it made an error  
what this service would expect would be that the business in question would take the 
remedial steps necessary to correct that error and, if appropriate, make an offer of payment 
to their customer to fairly compensate that customer for any distress or inconvenience they 
may have incurred.
Again, I think that Lloyds have done that. Theyve confirmed theyd be happy to backdate 
and apply the discount that should have been applied, and theyve offered to make a 
payment of £150 to A to compensate it for any inconvenience or upset it may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by another party. But the £150 
that Lloyds have offered to A here does feel fair to me, given these circumstances, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect.
As such, while I can appreciate that this might not be the outcome that A was wanting here, 
it follows that Im satisfied that the offer already made by Lloyds  to backdate and apply the 
promised discount to the increased charges, as well as to pay A £150  does represent a fair 
and reasonably resolution to this complaint, and it follows from this that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in As favour on that basis.
Putting things right
Lloyds must backdate and apply the discount referred to in this complaint to As account 
charges. Lloyds must also make a payment to A of £150.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman