DRN-1567703
 
The complaint
Mr Y says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr Y bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ys case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint because:
Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where 
PPI wouldve been offered to Mr Y. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Eggs 
record of the application data shows that Mr Y selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
him aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it.
Mr Y says that he didnt need the PPI because he was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer, and that his partner could've helped if he was off work sick. But Egg didnt 
recommend the policy to Mr Y so it didnt have to check if he needed it or whether it 
was suitable for him. As Mr Y chose to take the PPI, I think he wanted to protect 
his repayments against illness and unemployment.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr Y wouldve been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. Mr Y says he had good employee benefits, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to these. And it would've meant he didn't have to rely on 
his partner. The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. 
So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman