DRN-3805290
The complaint
Miss Q complains about the quality of repairs to her vehicle following an accident under her 
motor insurance policy, held with esure Insurance Limited (esure).  
In referring to esure, I include their agents and representatives.
What happened
In October 2021 Miss Qs vehicle was involved in an accident, causing damage to the 
nearside rear of the car, including the rear quarter panel and rear bumper. Miss Q contacted 
esure to notify them of the accident. esure arranged for the vehicle to be repaired by one of 
their approved repairers (K). 
However, when the vehicle was returned from K after the repairs were carried out, Miss Q 
wasnt happy with the quality of the work carried out in several areas, with missing or 
misaligned panels and concerns over the quality of paintwork. Following Miss Qs concerns, 
the vehicle was returned to K for rectification work. But when the vehicle was returned, Miss 
Q still wasnt happy with the quality of the work carried out, so raised her concerns with 
esure. They arranged for an independent engineer (B) to inspect the vehicle. Bs report 
found several issues with the quality of the repairs and recommended further rectification 
work (estimated to cost £316.80). 
Miss Q wasnt happy with Bs report, believing it hadnt properly considered the issues shed 
raised. Concerned about the integrity of her vehicle, she commissioned a report from a 
separate repairer (L) to assess the rectification work needed to bring the vehicle back to its 
pre-accident condition and address her concerns. Ls report detailed rectification work which 
was estimated (including labour costs and replacement paint and parts) at £8,058.78. Miss 
Q paid £90 for the report.
Miss Q provided a copy of Ls report to esure, who in turn appointed a second engineer (D) 
to re-inspect the vehicle. In their report, D challenged the need for some of the work in Ls 
report, concluding it wasnt necessary (such as replacing the rear bumper rather than 
repairing it). D estimated the total cost of rectification work at £2,178.91. 
Miss Q wasnt happy with the findings in Ds report, so complained to esure. Given the 
issues with the repair work carried out by K, she wasnt happy they carry out any further 
rectification work. She wanted esure to pay a cash settlement based on Ls estimate.
In their final response esure said their normal approach when a customer wasnt happy with 
the quality of repairs was for the repairer to rectify the issues (as the repairs came with a 
lifetime guarantee). But given Miss Qs concerns about K, esure understood why she would 
prefer rectification by her own repairer (L). esure offered Miss Q three options to resolve the 
matter: allow K to rectify the vehicle in line with the rectification work in Ds report; or for L to 
provide a revised estimate based on Ds report; or a cash settlement based on the estimate 
in Ds report. esure also apologised that rectification work was necessary and offered £100 
as a goodwill gesture.
Miss Q then complained to this service. The main element of her complaint was shed been 
left with a faulty repaired vehicle which she didnt feel assured about its safety and integrity. 
She wanted a cash settlement for the estimate in Ls report (and the £90 shed paid for the 
report) so she could have her vehicle repaired properly.
Our investigator upheld Miss Qs complaint, concluding esure hadnt acted fairly. She noted 
the assessment of the work needed to rectify the faulty repairs changed significantly 
between B and Ds reports. She also noted esure thought Ls estimate unreasonable and 
included elements that werent necessary. But the investigator understood why Miss Q was 
reluctant for K to carry out rectification work, given her concerns at the quality of their work. 
To put things right, the investigator thought the vehicle should be inspected by a main dealer 
for the make involved and provide an estimate of the cost of rectification work required. That 
estimate could be compared to the estimate from L, to assess its reasonableness. She also 
thought esure should reimburse Miss Q the £90 shed paid for Ls report and pay her £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss Q responded to raise concerns about the proposed further estimate from a main dealer, 
saying there wasnt one near to her. She engaged L because they were closer and carried 
repairs on behalf of main dealers. 
esure disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They thought Ls estimate inflated and having a main dealer inspect the vehicle 
and provide a quote wasnt the same as an independent engineer (D) having inspected the 
vehicle. 
In my findings, I thought a reasonable approach to settling the claim would be for either:
The rectification work be carried out by the main dealer supplying the further estimate 
of the work required and cost (if esure are prepared to agree the estimate, and Miss 
Q agrees); or
esure make a cash settlement based on the average of the estimates from D and 
from the main dealer (either if: esure arent willing to approve any estimate from a 
main dealer or Miss Q not wish for the main dealer to carry out the rectification work; 
or esure or Miss Q choose to make/accept a cash settlement).
I also thought it reasonable for esure to reimburse Miss Q for the cost of Ls estimate (£90) 
and pay £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator on the approach to 
settling the claim I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether esure have acted reasonably towards Miss Q.
The central issue in Miss Qs complaint is that her vehicle hasnt been repaired to an 
acceptable standard by esures repairer. She has concerns about the integrity of her vehicle 
and isnt prepared (given the issues that have arisen) for K to carry out any further 
rectification work. She also has concerns about whether the rectification work set out in Ds 
report is sufficient to address her concerns. And the estimate in the report isnt sufficient to 
enable her to have the vehicle repaired to what she believes to be an acceptable standard. 
She wants esure to settle the matter by a cash settlement based on the estimate of 
rectification work set out in Ls report.For their part, esure say theyve acted fairly (and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy) in offering Miss Q the option of having K carry out rectification work (though they 
acknowledge she isnt prepared to accept that option). Or having L prepare a revised 
estimate based on the scope of rectification work in Ds report. Or, a cash settlement based 
on Ds estimate. Esure also say the estimate in Ls report is unreasonable (if not excessive) 
and includes the cost of work which isnt necessary (or related to the accident).
Looking at whats happened and the sequence of events, whats not in dispute is that the 
repairs initially carried out by K (and their subsequent initial rectification) havent led to the 
vehicle repairs being to an acceptable standard. This is clear from both Ls report and 
estimate, as well as (in particular) the second reinspection carried out by D. So, the key 
issue for me to consider is what would be a fair and reasonable outcome for Miss Q, to 
enable further rectification that returns her vehicle to an acceptable standard. 
In considering this point, Ive first looked at the options available, with reference to what the 
policy provides for in these circumstances.  As part of their consideration of Miss Qs 
complaint, esure referred to the policy terms and conditions, particularly those relating to the 
settlement of claims and where a policyholder wishes to use a non-approved repairer. On 
the first point, esure refer to the policy terms on settling claims, under the heading What is 
covered the policy states:
All loss and damage to your carWe will:
pay to repair the damage; or
replace whats been lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing 
it; or
pay to settle your claim.
esure also refer to the statement under a heading Things you need to know which says:
Well decide which method we use to settle your claim.
On the issue of the use of non-approved repairers, esure refer to the following policy extract 
under the heading Using a non recommended repairer: 
Youll need to send us a detailed estimate from your choice of repairer and 
details of the incident as soon as possible.
Well only be liable for the repair costs once we have agreed on the estimate.
Well only pay for reasonable and necessary repairs and we reserve the right to 
say no to an estimate.
I think these terms make it clear esure can reject an estimate from a non-approved repairer if 
they dont think its for reasonable and necessary repairs. Looking at Ds comments on the 
estimate provided by L, its clear they dont think the estimate is reasonable and includes 
work they think is unnecessary (and not related to the accident or the subsequent repair by 
K). They also think the costs are unreasonable (to the point of being inflated). 
Ive considered these points carefully, but on balance I agree esure have acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions in rejecting Ls estimate. While its not for me to assess the 
technical merits of the differing views of D and L about the rectification work required on 
Miss Qs vehicle, Ive noted the two estimates are significantly different (£2,178.91 from D 
and £8,058.78 from L). Both use the same labour hourly rate, but differ significantly in the 
number of hours required, as well as the cost of paint and parts. Its also clear from Ds 
report that they disagree with Ls estimate in a number of respects (for example, the need to replace the rear quarter panel and bumper, rather than repair them). On balance, Im 
persuaded esure have acted reasonably in declining to accept Ls estimate. 
Ive also noted Ls estimate is a significant proportion of the vehicles market value (Ds 
report includes a valuation of £11,000 as at the date of the accident using information from a 
recognised industry valuation guide). As the work required is rectification of the repairs 
initially carried out, I dont think its reasonable for esure to make a cash settlement based on 
Ls estimate  particularly given the valuation of the vehicle.
As Ive mentioned, it isnt for me to assess the technical merits of the reports (estimates) 
provided by D and L. Because of the significant difference between the two estimates, our 
investigator recommended a further estimate of the cost of rectification be obtained from a 
main dealer for the make of vehicle involved. Ive considered the points made by both Miss 
Q and esure in responding to our investigators view. I recognise Miss Qs point about a 
main dealer not being nearby for her, but as the purpose of an estimate would be to obtain a 
reference point estimate to compare to those of D and L, I think its reasonable. For the 
same reasons I dont agree with esures view that having a main dealer inspect the vehicle 
and provide a quote isnt the same as an independent engineer (D) inspect the vehicle. Id 
expect a main dealer to be familiar with the make and model of the vehicle and to provide a 
reasonable assessment of the rectification work required (and an estimate of the cost). 
Based on this, I think a reasonable approach to settling the claim would be for either:
The rectification work be carried out by the main dealer supplying the further estimate 
of the work required and cost (if esure are prepared to agree the estimate, and Miss 
Q agrees); or
esure make a cash settlement based on the average of the estimates from D and 
from the main dealer (either if: esure arent willing to approve any estimate from a 
main dealer or Miss Q not wish for the main dealer to carry out the rectification work; 
or esure or Miss Q choose to make/accept a cash settlement).
While I think this is a fair approach in the circumstances, I also think it would be reasonable 
for esure to reimburse Miss Q for the cost of Ls estimate (£90) as it wasnt unreasonable for 
her to want an estimate from a repairer other than K and D.
Ive also considered the issue of compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
episode has caused Miss Q. esure offered her £100 as a goodwill gesture by way of an 
apology for the repairs needing rectification. Our investigator thought £200 would be fair. 
Taking account of the circumstances of the case, I think £200 would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Miss Qs complaint. I 
intend to require esure Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim by either:
ohaving the rectification work be carried out by the main dealer supplying the 
further estimate of the work required and cost (if esure are prepared to agree 
the estimate, and Miss Q agrees); or
omaking a cash settlement based on the average of the estimates from D and 
from the main dealer (either if: esure arent willing to approve any estimate 
from a main dealer or Miss Q not wish for the main dealer to carry out the 
rectification work; or esure or Miss Q choose to make/accept a cash 
settlement).
Reimburse Miss Q for the cost of Ls estimate (£90).Pay Miss Q £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Miss Q accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Miss Q responded to make several points. On the detail in the provisional decision, she said 
that while two firms of engineers were involved, D had acquired B between the two 
inspections. But the individual engineer was the same for both inspections. On her wanting a 
cash settlement from esure, she said shed told esure she would be prepared to accept a 
cash settlement as stipulated in the report from L, as she didnt think esure had provided her 
with an acceptable option to restore her vehicle to its condition prior to the accident.
Miss Q also raised a point about the reference in the provisional decision to Ds comments 
on the estimate provided by L (that they didnt think the estimate was reasonable and 
includes work they think is unnecessary (and not related to the accident or the subsequent 
repair by K). Miss Q thought this referred to her vehicle having undergone a prior repair  
something she rejected. 
Miss Q also noted (referring to the policy terms and conditions about the choice or repairer) 
it was esures choice to use their approved repairer (K). It was the unsatisfactory quality of 
repairs from K that had led to the situation and to the need to have another repairer carry out 
rectification work. As such, Miss Q questioned whether the policy wording related to repair 
work for the original accident  as opposed to the situation with her vehicle (the 
unsatisfactory quality of repairs carried out following the accident).
On the provisional decisions proposals for settling the claim, Miss Q had no objection to 
having rectification work carried out by a main dealer  but said esure had to date refused to 
accept an estimate from a main dealer. She wanted to know where this left her, and whether 
she would be reimbursed for any estimate from a main dealer.
On the option for a cash settlement based on the average of the estimates from D and a 
main dealer, she didnt think it would be sufficient to restore her vehicle to its condition prior 
to the accident. Which meant shed have to pay an additional amount. So, that option wasnt 
acceptable to her.
But she was prepared to accept reimbursement for the cost of Ls estimate (£90) and the 
proposed £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
esure didnt respond to the provisional decision by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether esure have acted fairly towards Miss Q.
Ive considered the points made by Miss Q. Some of them are points of detail about the 
wording of the provisional decision (that the same engineer provided the reports for B and D) 
while others are reaffirming points shes previously and which I considered when coming to 
my provisional view (her wanting a cash settlement as stipulated in Ls report and her 
rejecting the suggestion her vehicle had undergone a previous repair).On the point about whether the policy wording related to repair work for the original accident 
 as opposed to the situation with her vehicle (the unsatisfactory quality of repairs carried out 
following the accident), the wording is intended to cover repairs following an accident (a 
claim). It doesnt specifically relate to the issue of rectification of repair work should (as in 
this case) there be an issue about the quality of repair work. But Id expect similar principles 
to apply in arriving at a fair and reasonable outcome. So, either the rectification work is 
carried out by the original repairer (giving them the opportunity to make good any issues). Or 
rectification work is carried out at another repairer, or a cash settlement is offered. I took 
account of these when proposing options to settle the claim.
Turning to Miss Qs response to the proposed options to settle the claim, Ive considered 
what shes said and her preference for having rectification work carried out at a main dealer. 
Ive also considered esure not responding to the provisional decision, which means they 
havent provided a view on the options (and which, if either, they would be prepared to 
accept). As they havent provided a view  and Miss Q has expressed her willingness to 
accept rectification at a main dealer  then I think its reasonable that this is the basis for 
settling the claim. 
As Miss Q accepted the provisional decision on reimbursement for the cost of Ls estimate 
(£90) and the proposed £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience (and esure 
havent provided a view on these elements) I havent changed my mind on these points.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Qs complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim by:
ohaving the rectification work be carried out by the main dealer supplying the 
further estimate of the work required and cost.
Reimburse Miss Q for the cost of Ls estimate (£90).
Pay Miss Q £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Miss Q accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman