DRN-4258175
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost as a result of a 
scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the details of the scam so I wont repeat them in full here. In 
summary, Miss S made payments to a money transfer service on 31 January 2023. These 
were:
time value, £ merchantpayment 
method
13.47 1,500 TransferGo credit card
13.49 1,428 TransferGo credit card
13.51 1,428 TransferGo credit card
13.53 1,150 TransferGo credit card
At the time, she believed she was paying a travel agent for flights. Miss S says she only 
authorised three payments and when she saw the duplicate payment for £1,428 she 
checked with the travel agent she would receive a refund but at this point they ended 
contact. Realising she could be the victim of a scam she reported this to Santander. Miss S 
says the bank then misled her saying the transactions could be reversed.
Santander declined Miss Ss claim for a refund saying she had authorised the payments. It 
explained why neither the chargeback process nor the provisions of Section 75 in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 could facilitate a refund for Miss S either. It offered £50 
compensation as it had not managed her expectations effectively when she reported the 
scam. Miss S rejected this. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ss complaint in part. She acknowledged Santander had placed 
an automated call to check Miss S recognised the first payment. But she thought by the third 
payment it ought to have made direct contact with Miss S. And she felt an effective 
intervention would have stopped any further payments. She found that there was nothing 
more Santander ought reasonably to have done to try to recover the money. Finally, she 
said £50 was fair to recognise the banks service failings when Miss S reported the scam.
Both parties disagreed with this outcome. Miss S said, in summary, Santander should have 
done more to protect her  she had never made payments to a money transfer service 
before - and then it should not have not backtracked when it said the payments could be 
reversed. She thought she was protecting herself using her credit card and a reputable travel 
company. This has significantly impacted her mental health.
Santander said the payments were not large, nor was the total, and they were in line with 
typical spend on travel. Its system had flagged the first payment and Miss S confirmed it was 
genuine. So it believes had it contacted her again she would have said to go ahead and 
release the payments. As the amounts were plausible for flights it cannot see what more it 
could have done to prevent Miss S from making the payments. It says Miss S should have 
carried out her own due diligence before proceeding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that these were authorised payments even though Miss S was the victim of a
sophisticated scam. She responded to the automated call and completed in-app confirmation 
that she had requested the payments that were made. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to the scammers under the relevant regulations, Miss S is presumed liable for 
the losses in the first instance. However, it doesnt stop there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Santander should:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So to decide this complaint I have considered if Santander ought to have detected the 
transactions as unusual and so made direct contact with Miss S before processing her 
request(s). I note it made an automated outbound call when Miss S tried to make the first 
payment and she confirmed she recognised the transactions so it was released.
However, like the investigator, I think by the third payment a pattern had emerged which 
should have triggered a further intervention from the bank. It is the expert in fraud prevention 
and whilst it can be argued the transaction values were not unusually high, I find there were 
other characteristics that made this pattern of spend unusual for Miss S. The payments were 
made in rapid succession and Miss S had not previously used a money transfer service. 
This means I need to consider what would most likely have happened if Santander had 
spoken to Miss S. Had it asked her the questions I would expect it to in order to understand 
the basic context of the spend  what the payments were for, why was she making several 
payments rather than one, why was she paying a money transfer provider and not the travel 
agent directly  I think the spell of the scam would most likely have been broken. I have no 
reason to believe Miss S would not have relayed information that would have alerted 
Santander to the possibility that she was at risk of financial harm  things like the fact that 
she had been advised to make smaller multiple payments to avoid interest, and that if she 
also paid for her parents tickets now that her card had been approved she would receive a 
discount.
This means I find Santander liable for Miss Ss losses from the final two payments. Ive 
considered whether there is any evidence to suggest that the refund should be reduced on 
the basis of whats known as contributory negligence. I dont think there is in this case. 
Santander suggests Miss S ought to have completed more thorough due diligence but as it seems the scammer was operating as a clone of a legitimate company, I am not sure she 
would have discovered anything to concern her. And I dont think the fact that she herself 
didnt find it unusual she was making multiple payments via an intermediary means she 
should be partially liable. Santander is the expert in fraud prevention, not Miss S.  
Miss S has raised that her payments should be covered under the CRM (Contingent 
Reimbursement Model) code but credit card payments are not covered by this code. 
I have then considered if Santander did all it should to try to recover the money once Miss S 
reported her losses. I find that it did. As Miss S knows from her own contact with TransferGo 
the money was moved on quickly. But as they were credit card payments I have considered 
if the options for potential recovery that were available to Santander. 
In the circumstances of this case I dont see that Santander could have done more. A 
chargeback claim would most likely not have been valid as the merchant had in essence 
provided the services expected. So I think it was reasonable for the bank to decide it did not 
meet the chargeback criteria. And as the debtor-creditor-supplier chain was not intact a 
claim could not be made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Miss S is also unhappy that when she reported the scam, she was led to believe the 
transactions would be reversed. I have listened to the call and the bank did not say it would 
be reversing the payments. It confirmed it would block the card and raise a scam claim for 
the transactions. I note Miss S says she was sure it did say this, maybe on subsequent calls, 
but even if that was the case, that would not necessarily be a reason for me to change the 
conclusion I have reached and award a refund of all payments. I would expect the bank to 
apologise if it gave any inaccurate information and to address any training needs. It accepts 
Miss Ss expectations were not necessarily managed when first reporting the matter. So it 
apologised and offered £50 compensation for any distress this caused. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, I dont think Santander acted fairly by refusing to refund all of the transactions 
and it must settle the complaint in the way I have outlined below. 
Putting things right
Santander should:
refund the last two payments to Miss Ss account;
rework the account as if these two payments had never taken place;
if this results in a credit balance pay 8% simple interest* per year on that credit 
balance from the date it would have been created had the refunded transactions not 
taken place to the date of settlement; and 
pay Miss S the £50 compensation offered once she confirms bank account details for 
this payment.
*HMRC requires Santander to deduct any tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss S a certificate 
showing the deductions if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ss complaint in part. Santander UK Plc must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023. 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman