DRN-3949967
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and the 
service provided to them after they made a claim on their motor insurance policy. 
Specifically, Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy with the quality of the repairs made to their car, 
and LVs decision not to deem the car a total loss when it was originally inspected.
Mr H has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, or actions taken, by Mr H or Mrs H as 
Mr H throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by LV. Unfortunately, in May 
2021, their car was involved in a road traffic accident with a third-party. So, they contacted 
LV to make a claim.
LV instructed an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as X, to inspect the car. And having 
done so, the required repairs were authorised and completed in the same month.
But Mr H was unhappy with the quality of these repairs, and his car was returned to the 
original repairer to rectify the repair issues on more than one occasion. Mr H was unhappy 
with the length of time this took, and the inconvenience this caused him. So, he complained 
to LV.
LV responded to this complaint in November 2021 and upheld it. They accepted the repairs 
hadnt been completed to a satisfactory standard. And they recognised the delays this 
created in the claim process, and the inconvenience this caused Mr H. So, they agreed to 
cover the upgrade fee Mr H paid to the hire company, totalling £144, and they paid him a 
total of £250 in compensation to recognise the impact hed been caused up to this point.
But Mr H remained unhappy with the condition of his car. And in March 2022, another 
inspection was carried out by X, who recommended a way to repair the outstanding issues. 
But they acknowledged Mr Hs reluctance to use the previous repairer involved and so, 
suggested a repairer they felt would be able to complete the work.
LV didnt action this report until May 2022. But following this, they attempted to arrange a 
way to collect Mr Hs car for the repairs to be completed or look to agree a cash settlement 
for Mr H to arrange the repairs himself. No agreement was reached, and Mr H raised 
another complaint with LV.
Mr H was unhappy that his car had still not been repaired successfully. And he felt due to 
this, hed been left driving a dangerous car for over a year. And when it was being repaired, 
hed been left driving a car he felt was of an inferior specification. Mr H was unhappy that the 
car hadnt been deemed a total loss initially, as he had GAP insurance which wouldve left 
him in a better position financially. So, Mr H wanted to be compensated for all of the above.
LV responded to the complaint and upheld it. They recognised Mr H had been 
inconvenienced by the continued issues with the repairs, and the rectification work that was 
still required. And they accepted there were delays following Xs report in March 2022, and 
that they couldve communicated with Mr H more effectively. So, they paid Mr H an 
additional £500. But they didnt agree that the car shouldve been deemed a total loss, and 
they didnt think they had acted unfairly when deciding to proceed with repairs in May 2021. 
Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They accepted the valuation 
figure given in LVs complaint response was incorrect. But they explained they had seen the 
correct valuation and they thought LV were fair to authorise repairs, based on this valuation 
against the initial calculated repair costs. So, they didnt think they could say LV had done 
anything wrong regarding this aspect of the complaint. And our investigator felt the total 
compensatory offer of £750, alongside the other actions LV took in an attempt to progress 
the claim and complete the rectification work, was a fair one to recognise the accepted 
failures. And because of this, they didnt think LV needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair to expect him to allow further repairs to go ahead 
when he felt it was unlikely to rectify the issue. And he explained he hadnt been given a 
quote for what cash settlement would be offered. Mr H also raised his concerns about the 
hire car he would receive if this was to happen. As Mr H remained unhappy, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H and Mrs H. Its not in 
dispute that the initial repairs to their car werent completed to a satisfactory standard. And I 
can see because of this, Mr H and Mrs H have spent an extended period of time suffering 
the inconvenience of having to send their car back in for additional repairs, driving hire cars 
and driving a car theyre ultimately unhappy with. So, I can understand why Mr H and Mrs H 
feel unfairly treated.
And due to the ongoing repair issues, and the costs associated related to this, I can 
understand why Mr H and Mrs H would, with hindsight, question LVs decision to authorise 
repairs instead of deeming the car a total loss. And, as Mr H and Mrs H had GAP insurance, 
I can appreciate why they would look at this and feel as though this wouldve been a better 
way forward for them at the time. 
But for me to say LV should do something more than they have already paid to recognise Mr 
H and Mrs Hs complaints, Id need to be satisfied LVs actions and compensatory payment 
failed to adequately address the impact Mr H and Mrs H have experienced. Or, Id need to 
be satisfied LV did make an error when not deeming the car to be a total loss. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its important to note it is not my role, nor the role of our service, to re-underwrite the 
claim Mr H and Mrs H made, as we dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, its my role to 
consider the actions LV have taken during the claim process, and any compensation LV 
have offered, and decide whether I think these were fair and reasonable. And when doing so, Ive considered industry guidelines and standard industry approach, as well as the 
professional opinion of X.
As LV have already accepted fault regarding the issues with the initial repairs and the impact 
this had on the service Mr H and Mrs H received, Ive first turned to the main point that 
remains in dispute. And this centres around LVs decision to authorise repairs initially, 
instead of deeming the car a total loss.
Mr H feels the car shouldve been written off and that, if it had, he wouldve been in a better 
position due to the GAP insurance he had. Whereas LV feel they were fair to authorise 
repairs, based on the car valuation and initial repair quote. 
Ive considered both parties views regarding this at length. And the decision I make must be 
based on the evidence and information available to LV at the time they decided to authorise 
repairs, in May 2021. I dont think its disputed that, had LV been able to foresee the ongoing 
issues with the repairs, and the costs of this, they may have taken a different decision. But 
crucially, they wouldnt have known this at the time. 
I can see the initial engineers report compiled by X, as well as LVs system notes from 
around the same time. Initially, Mr Hs car was valued at £5,143 through Xs automated 
system that was fed data by a motor trade guide. And I can see the initial repair costs were 
quoted at £3,266. So, the repair cost equated to just under 64% of the car valuation. I can 
see that in the system notes, this was deemed not acceptable for repair. But I can the 
repairs were authorised the following day.
LV have confirmed this was because further valuations were sought for Mr Hs car, and a 
valuation of £5,500 was found through another motor trade guide. Its important to note it is 
standard industry practice, following guidelines set by the industry regulator, to calculate 
valuations using these guides and that usually, more than one would be sought. And using 
this valuation, the repairs equated to 59% of the valuation, which they deemed to be 
acceptable. So, they chose to continue with the repairs on this basis.
I asked LV to provide evidence of this valuation, and Ive seen evidence of a motor trade 
guide valuing Mr Hs car at £5,500. For completeness, our service has then obtained two 
further valuations from other motor trade guides which value Mr Hs car at £5,521 and 
£5,150. So, I think the valuation LV used of £5,500 fell within the range of valuations 
provided by the motor trade guides. And because of this, I dont think I can say LV were 
unfair when using this valuation to decide on whether repairs should be authorised.
I also think its worth explaining that there is no set repair to valuation ratio limit for when a 
car must be be deemed a total loss. Our service would usually expect a car to be deemed a 
total loss if a repair exceeded between 60-70% of its valuation. But this isnt a rule and it 
doesnt automatically mean a business has acted unfairly if they choose to repair a car 
where the repairs costs exceed this ratio. We would however expect a business to provide a 
fair reason as to why they chose to continue with the repair.
While in this situation the ratio was below 60%, I accept if the original valuation was used it 
wouldve exceeded this amount. LV have confirmed they sometimes repair a car up to 100% 
of its value, if theyre satisfied its unlikely further damage would be found. And I can see in 
documentation from X regarding the second inspection that took place in June, X stated they 
explained the reasoning for the repair decision to Mr H, and that this was accepted. While I 
cant know for certain exactly what was discussed, from what Ive seen I think Mr H most 
likely did initially agree for repairs to be completed and so, I think a reasonable explanation 
was most likely provided.Had the repairs been completed initially to the satisfactory standard, I think the repair costs 
wouldve been reasonable when compared to the car valuation and so, I dont think I can say 
LV were wrong not to deem the car a total loss. I appreciate Mr H is unlikely to agree, and I 
appreciate he had GAP insurance that wouldve seen him receive the total amount he 
initially paid for the car. But I wouldnt expect LV to take this into account when deciding 
whether repairs were appropriate as the GAP insurance was a separate policy taken outside 
of the motor insurance policy they provided to Mr H and Mrs H.
Ive then turned to the claim itself, and the difficulties Mr H encountered. Its accepted that 
the repairs werent completed satisfactorily. And its not in dispute that Mr H and Mrs H have 
been impacted by this. Its also accepted that there have been avoidable delays during the 
claim process and that LV couldve improved the way they communicated with Mr H. As this 
is accepted, I dont intend to discuss the merits of these issues further. Instead, Ive thought 
about the actions LV have already taken to recognise this and decide whether I think these 
actions were fair.
LV covered the hire car upgrade fees Mr H paid totalling £144. And I can see LV have 
ensured any additional repair work has been completed, at no additional cost to Mr H. I can 
also see that LV have paid Mr H and Mrs H a total of £750, to recognise the inconvenience 
hes been caused during the claim. Having considered the above, I think this total level of 
compensation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve 
recommended, had it not already been paid.
I think the £750 fairly addresses the length of time the claim has been ongoing, with Mr H 
having a car that hasnt been repaired satisfactorily. I think it also recognises the 
inconvenience Mr H has been caused needing to allow his car to go in for additional repairs, 
and his unhappiness with driving the car in between those times. But I think it also takes into 
account the fact Mr H has been kept mobile during the repair periods and that LV covered 
the costs of the upgrade fees to ensure Mr H had a hire car he was happy with at no 
expense to himself, when Mr Hs insurance policy only entitled him to a basic hire car. So, 
while I appreciate Mr Hs continued dissatisfaction, I dont think LV need to do anything more 
at this point in time.
I recognise that currently, LV are offering to collect Mr Hs car and arrange for the intended 
final repairs to be completed. Or, they will offer a cash settlement for Mr H to arrange these 
repairs himself. While Mr H has disputed LV offering to collect the car, Ive seen in email 
sent to Mr H where this option was provided. And that a hire car would be arranged to cover 
this period of time. I think this is a fair offer from LV, and it is up to Mr H to decide which 
option he wishes to choose. But I would expect LV to ensure the cash settlement is a fair 
one.
I also recognise Mr H has concerns about the hire car he will be provided. But as the hire car 
has yet to be arranged, Im unable to comment on whether I think LV have acted fairly and 
provided Mr H with a reasonable hire car, considering the fact the additional repair work that 
is needed has arisen from LV and their approved repairers failures. Mr H and LV will need to 
discuss hire car arrangements directly if this is the option Mr H wishes to choose.
If Mr H selects an option and is unhappy with the service hes provided following this, Mr H 
would be able to raise a separate complaint about this.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H and Mrs H were hoping for. But I hope this decision 
goes some way to providing them closure regarding the initial decision to repair their car and 
what they felt couldve happened had it been deemed a total loss.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman