DRN-3968274
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account. He says this caused him 
unnecessary stress and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
On 27 March 2022, Barclays blocked Mr Rs account. The bank removed the balance of just 
over £22,000 and showed the account as to reconcile.
Mr R discovered that he was unable to use his account when he tried to pay for petrol using 
his bank card and the payment was declined. Mr R rang the bank to try and find out what 
was happening with his account and where his money had gone. Barclays told Mr R that it 
had placed his account under review. But wouldnt give Mr R much information. Barclays 
completed its review on 5 April 2022, removed the block and released Mr Rs balance to him 
the same day. 
Mr R complained to the bank. He said he wasnt able to pay his rent and bills. And because 
of the block he had to borrow money from his parents to buy food. He explained that the 
banks actions meant he had to spend hours rearranging his financial commitments through 
another bank. So, he said Barclays should pay him compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused by blocking his account. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and had blocked Mr Rs account to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mr R asked us to investigate his complaint. He said the block on his account lack of access 
to his funds caused him a lot of problems. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation about why it blocked his account. And says the review caused him financial 
difficulties as he was unable to pay his bills from his account and had to ask his parents for 
money. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong. She said theyd acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and  
had done so in line with the account terms.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. So, the matter has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr R is upset that Barclays blocked his account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it difficult for him to 
manage his finances. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank 
has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Mr R feels Barclays should have told him that his account was being reviewed and explained 
why his account was blocked  instead of Mr R discovering his account was blocked when 
he tried to pay for petrol. I want to make it clear that I understand why what happened 
concerned Mr R. Ive no doubt it wouldve come as quite a shock to him, and he wouldve 
been very worried to find out he couldnt access his money and his account had been 
blocked.  But as the investigator has already explained, Barclays has extensive legal and 
regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
Barclays has said that Mr Rs access to his account was blocked to meet these 
requirements. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays was within its 
rights to review Mr Rs account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that 
review. So, I cant say the bank did anything wrong. The bank also wasnt obliged to tell 
Mr R why it was carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so as much as hed like to know. 
Looking at the terms of the account they permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. So, 
although I understand not having access to his account caused Mr R trouble and upset it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr R compensation since I dont believe Barclays 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked and reviewed Mr Rs 
account.  
I acknowledge that Mr R rang Barclays on several occasions to try and find out what was 
happening with his account. And he told the bank that he wasnt able to buy food. I can see 
that Barclays fast tracked their review in response and returned Mr Rs funds on 5 April 
2022.  I dont find this to be an unreasonable length of time. So, whilst Ive no doubt the 
banks actions caused Mr R trouble and upset, from the evidence Ive seen, overall,  Im 
satisfied that the bank completed its review in a timely manner.
In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Mr R when Barclays blocked 
his account and removed his money. So, I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. 
But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont 
believe Barclays acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman