DRN-3049035
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc issued him with a debit card with three sixes listed in 
the number sequence. He says because of his religious beliefs this makes him feel very 
uncomfortable and is bringing him bad luck. He wants Santander to remove the sixes from 
the debit card.  
What happened
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She explained to Mr V that the 
sequence of numbers arent controlled by Santander. Rather, these are determined by 
another organisation - the card issuer  and are Santanders unique code. So, even if 
another debit card were to be issued to Mr V, Santander said the same sequence of 
numbers would appear on the card. 
Mr V didnt agree. He said he is very uncomfortable about the three sixes on his debit card 
due to his religious beliefs. He said his debit card has now been cancelled and he is looking 
to change banks. Mr V says he wants compensation for the mental stress this is causing 
him. 
As theres been no agreement, the case has been passed to me to consider for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr V feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I understand from Mr V that his debit card has now been cancelled and this is adding to his 
distress. I dont know why his card has been cancelled  and this doesnt form part of the 
complaint Im looking at here. So, I would suggest Mr V raises any concerns he has about 
that with Santander. My focus is on Mr Vs concerns about the numbers on his debit card. 
Santander has provided a clear and valid explanation as to why it cant change the 
sequence of numbers on Mr Vs debit card. Ultimately this is a business process that 
Santander has no control over, and in which we cannot intervene or ask Santander to do 
anything differently. 
I dont in any way underestimate Mr Vs strength of feeling here. But Im satisfied Santander 
has looked into his concerns and provided a valid explanation as to why the numbers cant 
be changed. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman