DRN-2598173
The complaint
Mrs B complains Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly refused a claim on her 
motor warranty.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs B made a claim on her Amtrust motor warranty. Her cars engine was 
damaged. It required a full replacement. Amtrust agreed to pay about £800 to cover the cost 
of head gasket repairs. But it refused to cover anything further.
Amtrust said the engine had been driven in a distressed condition for some time. It felt that if 
that hadnt happened, with repairs made earlier to the head gaskets, further damage 
requiring the engine replacement wouldnt have happened. So Amtrust relied on a 
consequential damage exclusion in the policy to refuse to pay for the engine replacement.  
Mrs B felt it was unfair for Amtrust to refuse to pay the full claim. Shes now paid for the 
repairs at her own cost. Our investigator agreed with her. He said Amtrust had applied the 
exclusion unfairly. So he recommended it settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy. She accepted that but Amtrust didnt. So the complaint was passed to me. 
I recently issued a provisional decision. As it forms part of this final decision Ive included it 
below. In summary it explains why I intended to require Amtrust to pay Mrs B £5,000 plus 
simple interest to settle her claim and £350 compensation.
I also asked Mrs B and Amtrust to provide any additional information for me to consider 
before issuing a final decision. Amtrust didnt provide anything  but it agreed to pay Mrs B 
what Id said it should. Mrs B provided comments. Ive addressed those, where I feel it 
necessary, below.
My provisional decision
Mrs Bs policy covers her for the failure of components that no longer function. It 
doesnt seem to be disputed that components failed to such an extent that a full 
engine replacement is required.  
But Amtrust says its only liable up to the cost of an initial problem  repair of head 
gaskets. Its described the further damage, including to cylinders that means a full 
new engine is required, as drive on or consequential damage. Amtrust doesnt 
seem to have said so directly but it appears to be relying on the following policy 
exclusion to refuse the claim:
This policy does not cover consequential damage: damage caused to any covered 
part if in the opinion of an independent engineer, that damage could have been 
prevented by stopping sooner; ie at the point that a fair and reasonable driver should 
have been aware of a problem.
If an insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion to refuse or limit a claim its required 
to show the relevant policy term applies. Amtrust has provided two engineers 
reports. It seems from those that there probably was consequential damage. And it 
does seem likely some of the damage could have been prevented by the car 
stopping sooner  if it hadnt been driven after a certain point.  
But the exclusion requires Amtrust to show that in the opinion of an independent 
engineer a fair and reasonable driver should have been aware of the problem  and 
stopped driving. 
The car was driven a fair distance across the UK. During a ferry crossing to Europe it 
was noticed the coolant was low. Mrs B says she topped it up then and during a drive 
of a few hundred miles to a city. She says there was no temperature issue or warning 
lights. Arriving at the city she called her breakdown service. They couldnt find the 
source of the problem but said it was safe to drive to a local garage.
That garage found the problem to be a damaged coolant header tank. It replaced that 
part. Mrs B says the car was then used in the city for four to five days with no issues. 
But on a return journey to a ferry port she noticed the cars temperature rising. The 
air conditioning stopped working and the engine limiter kicked in. That happened a 
few times. 
Mrs B stopped and called the breakdown service again. They couldnt identify the 
problem so towed the car about 15 miles to the ferry port. It was driven on and off the 
ferry. Back in the UK Mrs B tried to drive to a local garage  but the temperature 
started rising again. So she called the breakdown service who recovered the car to a 
local garage. There the car was found to have major engine damage.  
Amtrusts first engineers report says the vehicle had been driven on in a distressed 
condition for hundreds of miles at least - resulting in consequential engine block and 
cylinder head warping leading to the need for a replacement engine. 
The report adds the vehicle owners responsible for checking the engine levels on a 
regular basis. It says if the owner had done so, noticing the coolant was low, early 
investigation of the loss and subsequent repairs would have minimised the risk of 
engine damage. 
Amtrusts second report says the engine had suffered from overheating. It reports 
distortion to the cylinder head, along with corresponding damage to the engine block, 
could be said to be the result of drive on damage. It adds that this damage wouldnt 
have occurred had the garage, who replaced the coolant header tank, carried out a 
thorough check of the cooling system for the presence of hydro carbons. It notes that 
this would have been a difficult breach to detect. The report concludes the vehicle 
owner has clearly driven it assuming the garage carried out a satisfactory repair. 
That second report doesnt indicate to me that in its authors opinion a fair and 
reasonable driver should have been aware of a problem and stopped driving sooner. 
Instead it says Mrs B had driven on assuming a satisfactory repair. It also says the 
real problem would have been difficult even for the garage to detect. 
Mrs B stopped and called her breakdown service once it was apparent there was still 
an issue with the car  only driving it a minimal distance (on and off a ferry). It seems 
unlikely that would have made a significant contribution to the damage. The second 
report persuades me it wouldnt be fair to apply the exclusion as a result of the car 
being driven after the initial repair attempt.I also dont feel it would be fair to apply it to the car being driven before the initial 
repair either. Ive considered what the first engineers report says. That does say 
early investigation would have minimised risk of further damage. But it seems the 
only indicator available to Mrs B, of any trouble, was the loss of coolant. There wasnt 
a heat issue or any warning lights. The coolant was kept topped up. And it seems the 
first breakdown service she called, by saying it was safe to drive to the garage, 
werent aware of the significance of the problem. So it would seem unlikely a non-
expert fair and reasonable driver would have been. 
On balance I cant say its fair for Amtrust to rely on the exclusion to refuse to cover 
the consequential damage. That means it will need to reimburse Mrs B what shes 
paid for the repairs  subject to the terms of the policy. Mrs B has provided an invoice 
showing the engine repairs costing about £6,300 including VAT. But Amtrust will only 
need to reimburse her to the policy limit of £5,000. 
During a call with Amtrust Mrs B was told it will only pay up to £45 per hour for 
labour. I cant see any reference to such a restriction in her policy terms. So Amtrust 
cant use that to reduce the payment.
Mrs B has paid for the repairs  mainly by credit card. So shes unfairly incurred 
additional costs as a result of Amtrust unfairly refusing to cover the repair. It will need 
to make up for that by applying simple interest to the £5,000. That should be from the 
date Mrs B paid for the repairs until the date of settlement.   
Amtrust refusing to cover the repairs meant the car was out of use for longer than it 
should have been  it was finally repaired in November 2020. Ive considered if 
Amtrust should pay something to cover any additional costs incurred as a result of it 
being out of use. It seems Mrs B had access to second car in her household. She 
was also lent a car for a while. So those options limited additional expenditure and 
inconvenience. 
Around November 2019 Mrs B bought a replacement car. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to require Amtrust to cover that cost. It seems likely Mrs B could sell the new car to 
recover most of the expenditure. Its also not clear why she chose to buy it rather 
than use the same funds to repair the damaged car earlier.   
Whilst there has been access to other cars, I still think its likely this matter has 
caused some inconvenience to Mrs B. Shes also clearly spent a lot of time dealing 
with Amtrusts unfair refusal of the claim  and experienced a fair amount of distress. 
So it will be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to pay some compensation to recognise 
all this. I think £350 would be a fair amount.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering Mrs Bs response to my provisional decision I decided Amtrust should pay 
her an additional £500.
Amtrusts failure to settle the claim caused Mrs B to be without the insured car for much 
longer than she should have been. I took the inconvenience that caused into account when 
initially awarding £350 compensation.  But I said I didnt intend to require Amtrust to contribute towards the cost of Mrs Bs 
replacement car  her alternative transport.  I said it wasnt clear why she bought a new car 
rather than using the same funds to repair the insured car. I also said she could probably 
recover most of that expenditure by selling the new car. But information provided by Mrs B, 
in response to my PD, changed my mind on this point. 
Mrs Bs explained why a second car, to replace the insured car, was required. She lives in a 
rural area. Both her and her husband require transport for work and to get children to school. 
Shes explained why they didnt fix the insured car earlier rather than buy a replacement one. 
She says they felt repairing the car, when it may need a further inspection, might prejudice 
her claim. A further inspection did happen a few months later  so it was a reasonable 
decision not to repair the insured car.
Mrs B says the replacement car cost £5,800 in November 2019. About one year later the 
insured car was repaired. So the new car was sold to a trade buyer for about £3,000. They 
were keen to sell quickly. That was to avoid loss of value and to minimise tax and insurance 
costs. Mrs B accepts they may have received up to £4,500 from a private buyer. Shes also 
highlighted that the replacement car required taxing and insuring along with the insured car. 
As Ive said Amtrusts mistake caused Mrs B to require alternative transport. Having 
considered what Mrs Bs said its only fair that it contributes towards the cost. I dont think it 
would be fair to require it to cover the full difference between the purchase price, insurance 
etc and sale price. I do think Mrs Bs acted reasonably. But its possible she could have 
reduced that difference by selling privately. Perhaps the car could have been sold after the 
second inspection so reducing any loss in value. 
So its hard to know exactly what Amtrust should pay  but in light of everything provided I 
feel £500 would be a fair amount. Thats in addition to the £350 compensation I previously 
said it should pay. Both Amtrust and Mrs B have accepted that figure. So Amtrust will need 
to pay Mrs B £500 towards the cost of her alternative transport.   
In response to my provisional decision Mrs B also reiterated some points about how 
Amtrusts agent handled the claim and treated her. I didnt refer to those concerns in my 
provisional decision. Instead focusing on what I consider the key issues and arguments. But 
Id taken that part of her complaint into account. So those points havent changed my 
position on the outcome of the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to require Amtrust International Underwriters DAC to 
pay Mrs B:
£5,000 to settle her claim  simple interest should be added at 8% from the 
date she paid for the repairs to the date of settlement,
£500 towards the cost of alternative transport and
£350 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman