DRN-2875036
The complaint
Miss B complained because Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) refused to include 
her on the insurance of a covered vehicle.
What happened
Miss B had the use of a motability vehicle, cover for this was provided by RSA. At renewal in 
2020 RSA said theyd only offer cover on the vehicle so long as Miss B was no longer a 
named driver. They said she could appoint up to three named drivers but could not be a 
named driver of the vehicle herself.
In July 2020 Miss B requested a formal appeal and further information was provided. But in 
January 2021 RSA confirmed their position remained the same.
RSA let Miss B know that when yearly renewals take place, they look at the history of the 
cover of the vehicle over the previous five years. In doing this RSA looks at the number and 
cost of claims during this time. Based on the number of claims and their value, they werent 
willing to cover Miss B as a driver on the vehicle.
RSA reviewed their decision again but continued to say they would cover the vehicle, 
however Miss B would have to be excluded as a named driver. They said this was the lowest 
possible renewal terms that could be offered in the circumstances.
Miss B came to this service. She let us know more about the needs of her children.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Bs complaint. Overall they didnt think RSA 
had done anything wrong.
Miss B asked for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman. She let us know how important 
the car is to her and her family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry this will disappoint Miss B but Im not upholding her complaint. I am in no doubt 
the impact of RSAs decision not to cover Miss B as a driver on the motability vehicle feels 
hard here. Miss B and her family depend on the use of the vehicle and for good reason. I 
accept Miss B isnt readily able to find alternative named drivers. But this doesnt mean RSA 
have done anything wrong.
Ive seen the claim history in relation to the vehicle over the relevant time. There are a 
number of claims involving a relatively high value, both individual claims and taken 
collectively.
I am satisfied RSA applied their usual criteria at renewal as to their cover. This considers the 
claim history, including the number of claims made within a period and their value. I dont 
consider this to be unusual as a general approach when insurers consider the risk they take 
on in providing cover.
As this vehicle falls under the motability scheme it is the vehicle that is covered by RSA and 
the requirement for named drivers forms part of the cover. 
There will have been a real impact on Miss B and her family and I am sorry to hear about 
this. There is nothing however that makes me think RSA did anything wrong when they 
declined to cover Miss B at this time as a driver of the vehicle. Given the claim history it may 
well be the position will change as time passes, but I appreciate this wont provide comfort to 
Miss B at this time.
My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman