DRN-2623794
The complaint
Mr R complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) failed to 
administer an agreed value policy when he applied by email. So, when Mr R made a claim 
on his car insurance policy, he was only insured for the market value of the car at the time 
of the loss.
What happened
In 2018, Mr R took out car insurance with a third-party insurer through Adrian Flux. Mr Rs 
car had been modified, so he later applied for an agreed value policy for his car to be 
insured for £10,000. Mr R said that to activate the agreed value policy, he sent an email 
to Adrian Flux with the completed forms and photographs of his car attached. Hed 
received a policy schedule showing the value of his vehicle as £10,000, so thought the 
agreed value policy was approved.
In March 2019, Mr Rs car was stolen. So he made a claim. During the processing of the 
claim it came to light that the agreed value policy had never been activated. The third-party 
insurer initially settled Mr Rs claim for £6,450 - the market value of the vehicle at the time 
it was stolen.
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He thought he had an agreed value policy for £10,000. 
He complained, saying that Adrian Flux should honour the agreed value policy 
because hed sent the application to them.
In their response, Adrian Flux said there was no evidence of Mr R providing the required 
documentation or payment for the agreed value policy. Adrian Flux went on to say, if theyd 
received Mr Rs email, they would have been able to locate it.
As he didnt agree with Adrian Fluxs response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service.
At our request, our investigator asked Adrian Flux to provide a retrospective valuation for 
the agreed value policy. After speaking with the insurer, they said Mr Rs vehicle would 
have
been valued at £6,902 at the time of his application.
Our investigator thought that Mr Rs email had been received by Adrian Flux, though without 
attachments. She said that Adrian Flux shouldve done more to follow the matter up.
But as the third-party insurer had, for unrelated reasons, revised the settlement figure to
£7,159, the investigator didnt ask Adrian Flux to do anything further. She noted that Mr R 
had received more than the agreed valuation was likely to have been.
The investigator felt that Mr R had been cause a lot of upset and frustration, so said that 
Adrian Flux should pay him £100 for the trouble and upset.
Adrian Flux accepted the investigators view. Mr R agreed in part, but didnt accept the level 
of compensation. He thought Adrian Flux should pay £1,500 for the level of stress caused to 
him. Mr R also questioned the settlement, particularly the retrospective valuation figure 
which was lower than he expected. He asked for an ombudsman decision. 
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision indicating that I did not intend to uphold the 
complaint. In summary, I said the following:
Based on a screenshot from Mr Rs email account, I was satisfied that he had 
emailed the necessary documentation to Adrian Flux to activate an agreed value 
policy.
Based on the details of an IT search provided by Adrian Flux, I was also satisfied that 
the email had not reached the business and could not therefore be actioned. The 
reason for this was unexplained.
Adrian Flux confirmed that they are able to accept emails with attachments. And Mr 
Rs evidence indicated that hed received a delivery receipt. But there was no trace of 
his email with Adrian Flux. And its absence on Adrian Fluxs systems was supported 
by a call between the business and Mr R shortly after his car was stolen, where the 
call handler confirmed there was no email about the agreed value policy showing.
Mr R had provided information suggesting that the problem was caused by Adrian 
Fluxs server. But as this was general information from other users and not specific to 
Mr R, I didnt place any weight on it.
Given the unsatisfactory position of having conflicting evidence, I also thought about 
what further actions Adrian Flux and Mr R might reasonably have taken.
I thought that with no indication that a policy had been requested, there was no 
obligation on Adrian Flux to chase up the potential purchase of an optional extra. 
But I thought that, as Mr R had sought to activate the policy, he could have chased 
things up when he received no response to his email, no confirmation of the agreed 
value and wasnt charged for the policy. 
I noted that the documentation hed been sent told him to expect written confirmation 
and said that until then, any total loss settlement would be paid out in line with the 
terms of a conditions of his car insurance policy, that is, at market value. 
Overall, I did not hold Adrian Flux responsible for the fact that there was no agreed 
value policy in place.
Mr R had also raised questions about the settlement figure and a retrospective 
agreed valuation figure, provided by Adrian Flux. I said that settlement was a matter 
for Mr Rs car insurer, so not something I would be commenting on. But I 
acknowledged Mr Rs concerns about the retrospective valuation figure. I clarified 
that this was not something Adrian Flux would ordinarily provide, but had done so at 
our investigators request. The figure was relevant to our investigators view, as shed 
upheld Mr Rs complaint. But it wasnt relevant to my provisional decision, as I wasnt 
holding Adrian Flux responsible for the absence of an agreed value policy. In that 
absence, Mr Rs total loss settlement would always have been in line with the terms 
of his car insurance policy. 
Finally, I explained that, as I was not intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint, it followed 
I did not propose to award any compensation.  
Adrian Flux accepted my provisional decision and did not provide any further comments. In 
summary, Mr R said that there was evidence the agreed value policy had been requested, 
that Adrian Flux were fully aware of this and had agreed to provide the policy by sending the 
documents to begin this process. As such, Adrian Flux were required to chase up documents for requested services and his complaint should therefore be upheld. He also 
expressed further concerns about the retrospective valuation provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why, with particular reference to 
Mr Rs comments following my provisional decision.
Mr R says that Adrian Flux were fully aware hed requested an agreed value policy and had 
agreed to provide it, based on the documents sent him as part of his policy welcome letter. 
He also says the documents show the value of his car was confirmed as £10,000.
Ive looked carefully again at the letter dated 27 March 2018. Firstly, I can see that the value 
of Mr Rs car is noted as £10,000 throughout the documentation. But this is not an insurers 
confirmation of an agreed value. Rather, it simply reflects the value of the car Mr R reported 
to Adrian Flux when buying his insurance. 
 
Secondly, Ive thought about Mr Rs points about Adrian Flux being aware that hed 
requested agreed value cover. Under a section entitled, how to get an agreed value, the 
letter says:
Your vehicle qualifies for the Qudos Agreed Value benefit. This allows you to 
guarantee the amount you would be paid in the event of a total loss claim and costs 
just £42.00. If you would like this additional peace of mind, please call us to arrange 
payment and then follow the instructions on the page titled Get Agreed Value Cover 
Today. 
This is a standard paragraph that to my mind sets out an additional benefit that Mr R can 
buy. I dont see it as indicative of any prior agreement to provide the cover. 
In another section entitled, documents required within 14 days of the start of your policy, the 
required documents listed are proof of no claims bonus and the modified vehicle report form. 
There is no requirement to return anything in relation to an agreed value policy. 
In the sales call of the same day, on top of his standard car insurance policy, the call handler 
offered Mr R a number of optional extras, some of which he agreed to take out. But there 
was no discussion of an agreed value policy. 
And on page 6 of the letter there is confirmation of Mr Rs selected policies  his car 
insurance policy, his free legal expenses cover and the two optional extras he selected. 
There is no reference to an agreed value policy. 
From the letter and sales call, Im satisfied there was no undertaking to provide an agreed 
value policy and that in order to activate the cover for which he qualified, Mr R needed to 
follow the instructions in the letter. But for completeness, even if there had been discussion 
about an agreed value policy, the activation would still need to be customer-led. 
As Ive already said, I accept that Mr R did seek to activate the policy by emailing Adrian 
Flux with the relevant forms and photos. But I also accept that, for reasons unknown, his 
email did not successfully reach Adrian Flux. As the agreed value policy was an optional 
extra, I dont think Adrian Flux had any obligation to chase Mr R about it. With the benefit of hindsight, it wouldve been prudent for Mr R to chase Adrian Flux when he didnt receive 
confirmation of the policy, as the instructions said he would. But I acknowledge this is an 
unfortunate point to make, given the loss that Mr R subsequently experienced. 
Mr R has also referred to his policy renewal letter for April 2019. He says this shows that 
agreed value documents arent sent out as standard and so supports his view that Adrian 
Flux had undertaken to provide the policy the year before. I dont agree. Ive already set out 
my view on the documents of March 2018 and concluded that ultimately, activation of an 
optional agreed value policy had to be customer-led. 
Mr R also made further comments regarding the retrospective valuation provided by Adrian 
Flux and how his car should be valued in the event of my finding in his favour. I acknowledge 
his views. But I see no benefit in commenting further on valuation, as Im not holding Adrian 
Flux responsible for the difference between the settlement Mr R received from his insurer 
and the agreed value he was hoping for. 
Finally, I do want to acknowledge that this has been a difficult and upsetting situation for Mr 
R. In no way do I wish to minimise the impact of events on him or the effort hes gone to to 
obtain an overall settlement figure to which he believes hes entitled. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Adrian Flux has treated Mr R unfairly and I dont attribute his losses 
to them. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against Adrian Flux.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman