DRN-3916158
The complaint
The Estate of Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund monies released 
to Mrs Ws son when he didnt have capacity to manage his affairs.
The estate is represented by Mrs Y.
What happened
The late Mrs W had accounts with Barclays. Mrs W died on 16 May 2019. She didnt have a 
will.
Mr W, who is Mrs Ws son requested the release of the funds. He sent the required 
information for release of funds amounting to less than £50,000. Following production of ID 
and signed indemnity Mr W had £18,201.27 in the accounts transferred to him on 19 August 
2019.
Mr W spent the funds.
A court of protection order in respect of Mr W was issued and entered on August 2020 and 
October 2020. Mr Ws court appointed attorney is Mrs Y.
Mrs Y took out letters of administration on 15 November 2022, as the representative of 
Mr W.
Mrs Y complained to Barclays that they should not have released the funds to Mr W because 
he lacked capacity and he couldnt manage his financial affairs.
Barclays responded that they had followed their procedures for releasing funds to 
beneficiaries in cases where the funds in the accounts are less than £50,000. They said they 
had done nothing wrong in releasing the funds without requiring letters of administration. 
They hadnt been on notice that Mr W didnt have mental capacity. They accepted they had 
failed to reply to Mrs Ys correspondence and later offered Mrs Y £50 for these failures.
Mrs Y complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
said Barclays had done nothing wrong and had followed its procedures when it allowed 
Mr W access to the funds in his late mothers accounts. She thought that Barclays offer of 
£50 for its failures in service when it didnt respond to Mrs Ys letter was reasonable.
Mrs Y disagreed she thought Barclays should have insisted on letters of administration being 
produced before allowing Mr W access to the funds. She said Mr W didnt have capacity to 
make decisions regarding his property and finances. Barclays had caused Mr W a loss by 
paying the funds out to him. She also thought it should have been obvious to staff that Mr W 
lacked capacity and they shouldnt have paid the funds over to him.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y has said that Barclays shouldnt have released the funds to Mr W without letters of 
administration being obtained by him. However, I have looked at the process that Barclays 
have in place in cases when an account holder dies. There is provision for funds to be 
released if the funds in the accounts are less than £50,000 on production of the death 
certificate, ID and the signing of a release form. The funds in Mrs Ws accounts with 
Barclays were below the threshold so I cant see they have done anything wrong when they 
followed their own procedure.
Mrs Y has said that Mr W lacked capacity and that Barclays should have been aware of this. 
Ive looked at the notes on the account and Barclays werent informed of Mr Ws lack of 
capacity until after the account was closed. In any event the Power of attorney wasnt in 
place until October 2020 a year after the accounts were closed. So, I cant see how Barclays 
would have known about Mr Ws capacity issues.
Mrs Y has said that it would have been obvious to anyone dealing with Mr W that he lacked 
mental capacity. Mrs Y is suggesting that staff at Barclays shouldnt have acted on Mr Ws 
instructions because of his demeanour or behaviour. As Ive said Barclays had no way of 
knowing that Mr W lacked mental capacity and although as the investigator mentioned there 
is an entry in the notes following a phone call to the bank suggesting Mr W was potentially 
vulnerable, there is nothing that suggests Barclays were on notice that Mr W lacked capacity 
at the time he received his late mothers funds. 
Mrs Y has provided Mr Ws mental capacity assessment. I would like to thank her for doing 
so. It is indeed clear from reading it that Mr W has difficulty dealing with day-to-day activities. 
I am not clear from the Banks notes about the account if Mr W went into Barclays to present 
the ID information and release form to branch or if he sent the information by post to the 
bereavement team directly. If he sent it in the post, there would have been no opportunity for 
the staff to interact with him. But even if the staff in branch did interact with him, I do not 
think that it would have made any difference to the outcome of the situation. 
I say this because Mr W isnt a customer of Barclays and the duty that Barclays have to third 
party beneficiaries to their customers accounts is outlined in their vulnerability policy. I have 
looked at this policy and even if Barclays had identified Mr W as vulnerable, they would have 
provided him with more support. But there is nothing that would require Mr W to obtain 
letters of administration to access the funds merely because he was vulnerable. So, adding 
a vulnerability marker wouldnt have changed the outcome here.
Mrs Y says that Mr W doesnt have capacity to sign the letter of authority, so his signature 
isnt authority to release the funds and indemnify Barclays. However, at the time Mr W 
signed the letter of authority there was no attorneyship in place and Barclays were not 
informed of any issues with Mr Ws capacity, so I dont think they have acted unreasonably 
in accepting the letter of authority as validly signed. 
Mrs Y has said that Mr W has lost out as a result of the actions Barclays took. I have already 
said I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when they followed their own procedures and 
released the funds to Mr W. Mr W was the sole heir and therefore entitled to the funds. I 
appreciate that had the Power of Attorney been in place beforehand and Barclays been 
aware of it, the funds would have been paid to Mrs Y for the benefit of Mr W and the funds 
wouldnt have been dissipated by Mr W so quickly. However, the complainant in this case is 
the estate of Mrs W and the funds in Mrs Ws account have been paid out to her beneficiary who is Mr W so I cant agree that the estate has suffered a loss. 
I know Mrs Y is concerned with the losses that Mr W has incurred. Firstly, I must point out 
that this decision deals with the estates accounts and any issues that arose with the 
accounts of Mrs W and Barclays. The situation that Mr W finds himself in isnt the subject 
matter of this complaint. Indeed, Mr W would not be able to complain to Barclays in his own 
right as he isnt an eligible complainant. He doesnt have a relationship with Barclays that 
would allow us to look at how Barclays may have treated him. 
Had Barclays made an error I would be asking it to refund the estate and in that way Mrs Y 
would be able to administer Mr Ws money for his benefit and prevent any dissipation of the 
funds. However, that is not what has happened here, and, in any event, as I have previously 
mentioned I dont think there has been a loss to the estate as I think Mr W has had the 
benefit of the funds which he would have had anyway even though it has been accelerated 
and he has dissipated them. 
As I have mentioned, I cant look at whether Mr W has suffered a loss, as this isnt the 
subject matter of the present complaint, but on looking at the evidence before me I cant 
agree that there has been a loss to him. 
Barclays accepted that they had fallen short in the customer service by not responding to 
Mrs Ys correspondence which meant she had to chase a response. Barclays have offered 
£50 compensation for this error, and I think thats a fair amount and I see no reason to 
increase it.
In summary I am sure Mrs Y is very frustrated with the situation and I know she wants to do 
what is best for Mr W. However, for the reasons stated above I cant say that the estate has 
lost any money and I think Barclays acted fairly when they followed their procedures and 
released the funds in Mrs Ws account to Mr W. It follows I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman