DRN-2689641
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) unfairly declined a 
claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
A roof panel detached from Mr M and Mrs Ms home. So, they contacted Zurich to make an 
insurance claim for storm damage. Zurich sent a surveyor to assess the roof and then 
declined the claim because it said there werent storm conditions at the time of the damage.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to Zurich, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
So, Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service.
Our investigator initially said there might have been storm conditions not shown in the 
weather reports due to the specific location of Mr M and Mrs M's home. However, following 
further comments from Zurich our investigator revised his view and said it was reasonable 
for Zurich to decline the claim as there was no evidence of storm conditions at the time of 
the damage.
As Mr M and Mrs M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports around the time of the damage. These 
dont show that the wind reached speeds that would be considered storm conditions.
Im aware that Mr M and Mrs M have said that the weather stations arent particularly close 
to where they live and that due to their coastal location, the wind speeds may have been 
greater than at the weather stations. So, Ive thought about this as well. 
When Zurich looked at the weather conditions, it said that not only did it look at the data at 
the closest weather stations, but that it also spoke to the weather data company, which then 
carried out a more in-depth look at the weather conditions based on the location of Mr M and 
Mrs Ms home. Having done so, it still didnt find evidence of storm conditions. 
While our investigator was looking at the complaint, based on comments from Mr M and Mrs 
M, Zurich also looked at whether the data from the weather station and Mr M and Mrs Ms 
home were likely to be different. This showed that the weather station and Mr M and Mrs Ms 
home were at a very similar elevation and both were located close to the coast. Looking at 
the data, this also showed that the peak gust, which was below storm force conditions, 
happened several hours after the roof panel detached from Mr M and Mrs Ms home.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think the answer to the first question is no. I dont think 
there was evidence to show that there were storm conditions around the time of the damage. 
As a result, I havent considered the other two questions. 
I dont uphold this complaint because I think it was reasonable for Zurich to decline the 
claim, as there wasnt evidence to show the damage was the result of a storm.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman