DRN-3031941
The complaint
A, a company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its accounts without notice. A 
suffered a loss in exchange rate conversion as a result of the closure. A would like the 
account reinstated and compensation for the loss. 
A is represented by its director Mr S.
What happened
A had two accounts with HSBC, a Sterling account and a Euro account.
On 24 March 2020 As accounts were closed by HSBC. HSBC converted the date Euro 
balance into sterling and issued A a cheque with the total combined balance.
HSBC say they sent a letter to A on the 7 January informing A of the closure of the accounts 
and asking for instructions for the Euro account. As no instructions were received the bank 
converted the Euros to Sterling and issued A with a cheque for the balance in both accounts.
Mr S was unhappy that HSBC had converted the Euros without consent. He complained to 
HSBC. He requested compensation for the conversion loss as well as evidence that the 
closure letter was sent to A and closing balances.
HSBC said they had followed the terms of the account when they closed the accounts and 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr S was unhappy with HSBCs response- he maintained that he hadnt received the notice 
to close the account.
A complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said 
that HSBC were entitled to close the account. As Mr S hadnt got in touch with HSBC, she 
thought HSBC were also entitled to convert the Euros into Sterling in order to process the 
account closure.
Mr S disagreed. He said A hadnt received the closure letter and HSBC could not prove that 
it had sent it, so he thought the letter had never been sent. He also thought it unfair that As 
accounts had been closed.
Our investigator reviewed As comments. She still thought HSBC had done nothing wrong. A 
still thought that as HSBC couldnt prove they had sent the letter of closure, the closure was 
unfair, and A should receive compensation for the losses incurred as a result of the Euro 
conversion.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of As accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. HSBC have said this is what they were doing when 
they reviewed As account.
Following the review HSBC issued a notice to close accounts to A- I have seen evidence of 
a letter dated 7 January 2020 which gives A two months notice to close the accounts.
Account closure
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account, they allow HSBC to close accounts 
with or without notice.
Ive mentioned a letter dated 7 January 2020 which gives A two months notice to close its 
accounts. Mr S has said he never received the notice to closure letter, and A has suffered a 
loss in exchange rate. Mr S has requested that HSBC provide proof they sent the letter to A. 
I appreciate Mr S is frustrated by the situation but that isnt what Id expect HSBC to be able 
to do. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter that was sent, and it contains As correct address, so Im 
satisfied no mistake was made there. I have also seen HSBC file notes that indicate the 
letter was sent on 7 January 2020.   I have seen evidence HSBC processed the letter with 
the correct address and so I am satisfied they did what was expected of them and that 
theyve complied with the terms and conditions. Because of this, I dont think HSBC have 
done anything wrong here.
I appreciate A will be unhappy with my decision but having considered the evidence I am 
satisfied that HSBC acted fairly when it closed As accounts.  
A has said it wants to know the reasons for the closure of the account. Whilst A mayve 
expected to be given the reasons for the closure, HSBC isnt required to give a specific 
reason for closing the accounts. So, I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong by not 
giving A this information  as much as Mr S would like to know.
Mr S has asked for compensation for the loss in exchange rate. I know Mr S will be 
disappointed but I havent seen that HSBC have made an error and so I cant hold them 
liable for the loss that A incurred. It follows I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman