DRN-3039159
The complaint
Mrs Ps representative complains on her behalf that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) did not offer 
a fair market value for her car when it was written off in an accident.
References to Mrs P or her representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
 
What happened
Mrs P had a motor insurance policy with UKI. Her husband and daughter were named on the 
policy as drivers.
Mrs Ps daughter was involved in an accident. UKI accepted the claim and the car was 
written off.
UKI made an initial offer of £615 for the car and this was rejected. Mrs Ps representative 
said he was unable to find a car of the same make and model and of similar age and 
condition for the amount offered.
UKI reviewed its offer and it was increased to £1,060 and finally to £1,278.
Mrs Ps representative still said the offer was not enough. He felt that UKIs valuation had not 
taken in to account the implications the covid pandemic has had on used car market prices 
and that its reliance on national guide valuations did not represent a realistic assessment of 
market value.
UKI did not increase its offer. 
As Mrs P was not happy with UKI she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that the offer 
made by UKI was fair. He did feel that the service provided by UKI regarding changing the 
valuations and lack of engagement with Mrs Ps representative was unreasonable and that it 
should pay £100 compensation for any trouble and upset caused. 
As Mrs Ps representative is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered whether UKI acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mrs P following the write-off of her car. My 
role is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of 
settlement is fair. 
I firstly looked at the details within Mrs Ps motor insurance policy with UKI.  In this case 
within the policy terms and conditions it says - If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of 
repairing or replacing your vehicle up to its UK market value. This is the current value of the 
vehicle at the time of the claim  and it may be different to the amount you paid or any 
amounts we spoke about when you insured your vehicle with us.
Market value is defined in the policy as  the cost of replacing your car with another of the 
same make and model and of a similiar age and condition at the time of the acciudent or 
loss
The policy further states - The most we will pay - We will not pay more than the market value 
of your car at the time of the loss (less any excess that may apply).
UKI said when calculating a value, it uses multiple motor vehicle industry recognised 
valuation guides. It said this provides a starting base value, which is then adjusted for 
mileage, condition, and also makes allowances for non-standard options. 
It made an initial offer of £615 which was contested by Mrs Ps representative. It was 
increased to £1,060 after Mrs Ps representative contested the initial offer and then further 
increased to a final offer of £1,278. 
Mrs Ps representative provided details of adverts for similar cars on sale at higher prices 
than the valuation she was offered. And said this showed retail replacement costs for similar 
cars were at higher prices.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
Our investigator researched three of the main motor insurance guides and found that the 
retail market value fell into a range between £873 and £1,600. 
UKI paid £1,278 for Mrs Ps car. As this sits just above the average of the range, Im 
satisfied that its valuation is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs Ps representative points out that lockdown had an impact on the availability of used 
cars and he also felt that UKI should not be relying exclusively on national guides. However 
the national guides give a price at the current date and I believe that these are reflective of 
the increasing prices that have been seen during the covid pandemic as they take in to 
account advertised and auction prices from the time of the quote. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment for Mrs Ps representative and I appreciate 
the time and trouble he has taken in trying to locate a suitable replacement car. However, 
Im not persuaded that UKI have acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling Mrs Ps claim at £1,278. I believe that this amount is reflective of the current value of the vehicle at the time 
of the claim.
I do agree that UKI provided an initial offer that was not realistic and Mrs Ps representative 
had to spend time justifying why this offer was unacceptable so I think a payment of £100 
compensation should be made.
Therefore, I partially uphold Mrs Ps complaint and UKI should pay £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its lack of engagement and as it did not make a reasonable 
offer until after her representative submitted further information to support her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mrs P £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its lack of engagement and as it did not make a reasonable offer until after her 
representative submitted further information to support her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman