DRN-4144828
The complaint
Mr D complained because J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, refused to refund 
him for transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr D said that his mobile was stolen on the night of 9/10 September 2022 when he was in a 
pub with friends. He said they met two men, and one asked if he could put his number into 
Mr Ds phone. Mr D agreed and handed over his unlocked phone, and was then distracted 
by the other man. Mr D then asked for his phone back, but the men said they didnt have it, 
and the men then walked away. 
Mr D went home, and contacted his phone provider to get a block put on the phone. Later in 
the morning, around 11.30am, Mr D went to his bank to transfer money to his father. The 
bank told him that he was in overdraft, and a total of £1,570 had been sent to his own Chase 
bank account. 
Mr D then rang Chase, and discovered that multiple faster payments had been made to 
payees he didnt recognise. He told Chase that he still had his wallet and ID. He said that he 
used Face ID and a passcode to access his phone, and the passcodes for his phone, Chase 
app, and bank app, were all different.  
There were several conversations between Mr D and Chase over the next few days. There 
was a payment to a transport company after the phone was stolen, and Mr D told Chase that 
he had made that transaction, but hed done so with his Chase debit card. On another call 
he said hed used his watch to make that payment. Mr D also then reported the theft to the 
police.
Chase asked Mr D why he hadnt reported the theft to the police straightaway, either by 
asking one of his friends for their phone, or phoning from the pub. Mr D said hed previously 
had another phone stolen and the police hadnt been helpful, and this was why he waited a 
day to file the report. Chase also asked Mr D why had hadnt phoned Chase and his bank 
straightaway when the phone was stolen, to block the apps. Mr D said he hadnt thought 
they were at risk because he had passcodes on the apps.  Mr D also told Chase that he 
couldnt get evidence that hed rung his phone provider to block his phone, because the 
provider couldnt provide it.
On 27 September, Chase rang Mr D with the outcome of his case. Chase didnt uphold his 
case, because face ID and the passcode were active on the phone, as well as the Chase 
app. Also, new payees had been set up using the passcode. Mr D complained, and on 18 
October Chase sent Mr D its final decision. This said that the information provided wasnt 
sufficient to uphold the case.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He set out what had happened, and he 
also said that in September, Chase had said that one of the banks had recovered some of 
the money which would be returned, but his hadnt happened. Mr D said that the outcome 
meant hed lost all his student loan, a months pay, and his and his housemates portion of 
the rent. He said this meant hed struggle to pay his bills, and it had had an extremely large 
effect on his mental health. He said he didnt understand why the money couldnt be 
returned to him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said that the evidence showed that the 
disputed transactions had been made using Mr Ds phone and genuine card details. She 
couldnt see how someone could have found out Mr Ds banking app passcodes, or banking 
information, as Mr D had said he hadnt shared or disclosed these, and it wasnt stored on 
his device.
The investigator also said that Mr D had confirmed the transport transaction after the 
disputed transactions, which hed said hed made using his watch. But Chases evidence 
had shown that this had been made using a mobile payment service. She couldnt see how 
Mr D could have come back into possession of his device in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that hed been under the impression that the transport payment 
was made using his watch, and Chase hadnt told him it had been made using a mobile. He 
said he unequivocally denied having made that payment. Mr D sent an article from the 
Financial Conduct Authority about unauthorised payments, and said that detailed his rights 
and showed the money had to be returned to him, because there was no evidence hed 
made the transactions personally. He also sent some online articles which he said showed 
the same thing had been happening to other people. Mr D asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered who was more likely than not to have authorised the payments. The regulations 
also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain 
circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent 
that it can be termed gross negligence.
Who authorised the disputed transactions?
Mr D said that his phone was unlocked when taken by the thief. That might explain why 
whoever carried out the transactions didnt need to use Mr Ds Face ID, and the phone 
passcode, to access the phone. But Mr Ds Chase account was further protected by needing 
Mr Ds banking information to log onto the app, including his passcode. Mr D said that the 
passcodes for his phone, Chase app, and the app with his other bank, were all different. He 
said they werent stored on the phone, written down, or disclosed to any third party. So its 
very difficult to see how any third party could have got into Mr Ds Chase app and carried out 
the disputed transactions. Setting up the new payees would also have needed the correct 
passcode. There are some 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so its most 
unlikely that any third party fraudster could have correctly guessed Mr Ds PIN. 
Ive also considered when Mr D reported his phone stolen. He said it happened shortly after 
midnight, in the early hours of 10 September. He was aware of the theft as soon as it 
happened, because he said he asked for his phone back but the men walked away. I find it strange that Mr D then just went home. He didnt at that point ring the police, or Chase, or 
his other bank, to report a theft and put a stop on any potential fraudulent activity. Hes said 
he was with friends, and was in a pub, so its very unlikely he couldnt have used someone 
elses phone for these. Im not persuaded by Mr Ds reasons  that hed previously had 
another phone stolen and the police hadnt been helpful so he decided to wait a day, and 
that he didnt think his money was at risk because he had passcodes. A theft as Mr D 
described would have been shocking, upsetting, and I think was likely to have made 
someone in that situation keen to stop any further problems immediately. And Mr D was with 
friends, and in a public place, so Id have expected his friends and those in charge at the pub 
to have urged Mr D to take action straightaway too. So Mr Ds behaviour here seems to me 
unusual in all the circumstances of this case.
Ive gone on to look at the Mr Ds payment for his transport home, which took place after he 
said the phone was stolen. Mr D has given different accounts about that payment, saying 
that he genuinely made it and did so by debit card; that he genuinely made it using his 
watch; and after he was told it was made using the registered phone, he denied making the 
payment. Ive looked at Chases technical records, and they do show that the transport 
payment was made using Mr Ds registered phone. Mr Ds different versions about what 
happened are not persuasive. 
Ive looked at the online articles about phone thefts which Mr D sent to us. Hes said that this 
has been happening to other people, including friends whose banks gave them the money 
back immediately. I cant comment on other peoples circumstances and complaints, only on 
the specific evidence relating to Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D also said, in his reply to the investigators view, that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA)s website says that his money must be returned as theres no evidence he made the 
transactions. But I have considered all the evidence, including the technical evidence from 
Chases systems, as well as the circumstances and what Mr D did and said. Having done 
so, I find that its more likely than not that Mr D carried out the disputed transactions himself. 
So Chase doesnt have to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman