DRN-3959518
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSAs) decision to decline 
her insurance claim. Mrs A is represented by Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs A has a landlord insurance policy with RSA for a property that she rented out. 
Unfortunately, it came to light that the tenants  or their associates  had used the property 
to cultivate illegal drugs, causing damage in the process.
Mrs H submitted a claim for the damage, but RSA declined it. They said the property hadnt 
been inspected with the regularity expected under the policy and that adequate bank details 
hadnt been obtained  another condition which can affect the claim outcome.
Mrs H didnt think that was fair. She said the property had been inspected as best it could at 
the time (which included Covid lockdowns) and that the policy conditions were onerous.
An investigator here said RSA had acted in accordance with the policy terms and that the 
claim outcome was reasonable. Mrs H didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I agree that the claim was considered fairly. Thats not to 
say I dont have any sympathy for the situation. Mrs H has explained that the property had 
been a much-loved family home and that they were devasted to find it in the condition it was 
left in.
But my role is to determine whether or not RSA have applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy, although I may consider extenuating circumstances if they exist  such as the 
lockdown restrictions which were in place around the time. But having done so, Im still of the 
view that RSA was fair, even if it doesnt seem that way to Mrs H.
First of all, the policy terms state that internal and external inspections should be carried out 
every three months, and that bank details should be recorded and verified by receipt of at 
least one payment from them. RSA says Mrs H hadnt complied with either of these terms, 
and that such a failure may result in the claim not being paid.
Mrs H has referred to the difficulties with Covid lockdowns which began in March 2020, but 
the property had been rented out since April 2019 and the only full inspection was carried 
out in July 2019. So, the conditions werent being met even before the lockdowns. Further, 
the damage wasnt discovered until September 2021 and there were several occasions 
during that period where restrictions had been lifted.
I take Mrs Hs point that she still visited the property and on some of those visits was able to 
see inside, either through windows or through the front door. But I dont consider that to 
satisfy the policy requirement of an internal inspection. I believe the reason for these 
conditions are, in the main, to deter errant tenants from illegal activities and to ensure, if they 
do start, then the damage is caught before it escalates significantly.
I also appreciate Mrs H has described herself as vulnerable and that the risk of contact with 
others meant she had to be more careful. But she could have arranged for someone else to 
carry the inspections out for her or, if that wasnt possible, she could have discussed things 
with RSA when those difficulties were apparent  to see if any other options were available, 
such as video inspections.
Unfortunately, I cant see that Mrs H did any of that, so RSA wasnt able to manage the risk it 
was covering. So thats why they were entitled to decline the claim.
Ive not really mentioned the bank statements as part of my consideration, because the 
inspections are the main issue here. And Mrs H says shes been told by letting agents that 
bank details are no longer requested by them. But it was another policy term which hadnt 
been adhered to and these things are important.
Overall, I consider the policy terms to have allowed RSA to decline the claim and I dont 
think those terms were applied too strictly in the circumstances. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman