DRN-3327929
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Everyday Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Everyday approved one loan for Mrs D in November 2019. It was for £3,001, scheduled to 
be repaid over four years (48 months) at just under £218 a month. Mrs D settled the account 
in April 2021. Soon after that she complained to Everyday which issued its final response 
letter (FRL) on 26 April 2021. Everyday explained what it had done before lending and did 
not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and one of our adjudicators 
thought that  Everyday had not accounted for her financial situation fully enough. So, she 
though that it needed to put things right for Mrs D.
Everyday did not respond to the adjudicators view. Mrs D acknowledged it and did not 
appear to disagree with it. However, as the complaint remained unresolved it was passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs D would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs D would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ds ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs D undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs D. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint.
Here, the 48 month term of the loan approved by Everyday indicates to me that the checks it 
carried out before lending had to be detailed and thorough. Essentially, it needed to carry out 
a full financial assessment of Mrs Ds situation, as she was committing herself to four years 
of repayments of around £218 each month. 
I can see that the checks Everyday carried out included obtaining and reviewing up to two 
months bank statements from Mrs Ds primary bank account, obtaining and reviewing one 
months payslip, conducting a credit search and carrying out a job check.
An element which was not satisfactory was that Mrs D had told Everyday she was wanting to 
use the new loan to improve her credit file, and was going to use the Everyday loan to 
consolidate some debts. But the capital appears to have been paid to Mrs D directly and so 
Everyday had not satisfied itself that she was going to pay down some other debt before 
embarking on its four year repayment commitment. 
As its own credit searches had revealed she had an outstanding default and was repaying a 
debt collector £409 a month, and her copy bank statements reviewed before lending showed 
she was always paying overdraft charges, then I think that establishing which debt she was 
going to pay off was important. The information it had does, in my view, demonstrate that 
Mrs D was having trouble managing her money and had done so in the past. And so, I think 
Everyday ought not to have lent to her. 
Ive also thought about whether Everyday acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs D to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. Mrs D has already repaid it early. But as 
I have concluded Everyday shouldnt have provided the loan, it should look to remove the 
interest and fees from the amount paid under the loan agreement. 
Everyday should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges on the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loans from Mrs Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
does as I have directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman