DRN-4004916
The complaint
Miss W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard rejected her disputed transaction 
claim.
What happened
Miss W used her Aqua credit card to pay for a travel experience. The event was cancelled 
by the merchant and rescheduled to a later date at a different location.
The supplier sent emails to all customers  including Miss W  advising that if they couldnt 
make the rescheduled date a refund would be issued within 90 days.
Miss W didnt receive a refund, so she raised a disputed transaction claim with Aqua.
Aqua rejected the claim. It said Miss W had failed to produce any evidence to show that the 
merchant had promised a refund.
Miss W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Aqua shouldve done more when the 
merchant challenged the dispute by presenting the information relied on by the merchant to 
Miss W. The investigator concluded that Miss W had lost the opportunity of a successful 
chargeback claim and said Aqua should refund the account. 
Aqua didnt agree. It said the information provided by Miss W wasnt sufficient because the 
merchants email stated that if the customer didnt request a voucher they would be refunded. 
Aqua said there was no evidence to show whether Miss W had requested a voucher or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the merchants response to the chargeback. It challenged the claim and said 
Miss W hadnt requested a refund and that the booking was no-refundable.
I havent been able to access the link in the merchants response. But based on the 
information Ive been able to obtain about the merchants cancellation policy. It seems that if 
an event is cancelled by the merchant, which is what happened in Miss Ws case, the 
customer is entitled to a full refund.
Ive looked at the evidence Miss W provided to Aqua in support of her claim. She provided 
an email from the merchant about refunds. Aqua, in its response to the investigators view, 
said the email wasnt sufficient because it stated that a refund would be given if the customer 
doesnt request a voucher.  Aqua said it didnt have evidence to show whether Miss W had 
requested a voucher or not.
I think the email from the merchant is clear. If Miss W didnt request a voucher than she is 
entitled to a refund. Theres no evidence to suggest that Miss W requested a voucher. If she 
had requested a voucher, I think the merchant wouldve advised Aqua of this when it 
responded to the claim.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Aqua handled the claim fairly. Im satisfied 
that Miss W provided sufficient evidence to show that she was entitled to a refund. I think 
Aqua shouldve gone back to Miss W for further comment once it received the merchants 
response, because the merchants response was at odds with the email which had been 
sent to Miss W about vouchers and refunds.
Because Aqua didnt do as much as it shouldve done, Miss W has lost out on what I think 
wouldve been a successful chargeback claim. 
Putting things right
To put things right, NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard must refund the sum of £199 and 
rework the account as if the initial refund hadnt been reversed. Any fees and charges and 
interest incurred as a result of reversing the initial refund should be refunded. If the refund 
results in a credit balance on the account, NewDay should pay 8% simple interest per year 
on any refund from the date it wouldve arisen to the date of settlement.
NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard must also remove any adverse information from Miss Ws 
credit file relating to or as a result of the disputed transaction claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard must take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman