DRN-4172336
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged in an incident and declared a total loss. Mr S said hed been 
attacked, and his car had been stolen. It was then involved in a collision. Mr S made a claim 
to Admiral, but he was unhappy that it had delayed settling it. Mr S said hed provided phone 
records, attended an interview with a private investigator and the police and also provided a 
DNA sample. He said Admiral had received the police report but hadnt paid his claim. 
Admiral later repudiated the claim and cancelled the policy as it said Mr S had provided 
inconsistent accounts of the claim circumstances. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
was entitled to investigate the claim in order to validate it. He thought it wasnt responsible 
for the polices delays in providing reports. He thought it hadnt caused avoidable delays in 
progressing the claim. He thought Admiral had made contact with the cars finance company 
about the claim. And, due to the inconsistent versions of events, he thought it wasnt 
unreasonable for Admiral to decline the claim. 
Mr S replied that he disagreed, and he provided a voicemail of his report of the incident to 
the police. He said he had concussion and memory loss at the time which accounted for the 
differing versions of events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S felt frustrated with the length of time it took for Admiral to 
investigate and validate his claim. And I can also understand his disappointment that the 
claim was eventually repudiated despite his co-operation. I can see that this will have difficult 
financial consequences for him and his family.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. So Ive looked at the file 
provided by Admiral and the submissions made by Mr S. 
It took Admiral about seven months to finally decide to repudiate the claim. During this time, 
it interviewed Mr S, it instructed a claims investigator to interview him, it sought a report from 
one police force which led it to ask for a second forces report, and it analysed the cars 
keys. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable, and in keeping with industry practice, for Admiral to 
investigate the theft claim and validate it. Some of the investigation was outside of its control. 
I can see that the police reports were delayed, but I dont think this is unusual and I cant 
hold Admiral responsible for this. And I can see that the locksmiths report was delayed due 
to difficulties in reading the keys data. But I think Admiral reasonably pressed for the reports 
and didnt make any avoidable delays in conducting the investigation. 
The outcome was that Admiral repudiated the claim because it couldnt accept that the 
incident had happened in the way that Mr S had reported to it. Ive listened to the various 
recordings and read the interview notes and police report. And Im satisfied that Admiral had 
reasonable grounds for doubting Mr Ss account because of the variations and discrepancies 
between his statements. 
Mr S said he had memory loss, and this accounted for the variations in his statements. But 
Im not persuaded by this. This is because I cant see that he sought any medical attention 
for this condition, the concussion he suffered, or the bump on his head, despite the police 
advising him to do so. So theres no evidence to show that his memory was affected.
Also, there are factual differences between his statements that arent explained by a loss of 
memory. And Mr S declined to provide details of a person he said he had been with on the 
night in question and another on the following day so that Admiral could validate his account. 
Admiral then relied on Fraud terms and conditions in the policy to repudiate the claim and 
cancel the policy. Im satisfied that its entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions 
which are clearly stated in the policy booklet: 
General Condition 9: Fraud
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate information. 
If you, any other insured person or anyone acting on your behalf:
provides us with false, exaggerated or misrepresented information
submits false, altered, forged or stolen documents.
We will take one or more of the following actions: 
cancel your policy, under certain circumstances this may be with immediate effect
refuse to pay your claim or only pay part of your claim
keep the premium you have paid recover any costs incurred from you or any other 
insured person.
Mr S also had a duty to co-operate with Admirals investigation. And Im satisfied that 
Admiral reasonably decided that he didnt do this because he didnt provide the witness 
details and he wouldnt provide a statement until after he was aware the police werent 
taking action against him. 
So I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to cancel Mr Ss policy and 
repudiate his claim for the loss of his car. 
Mr S was unhappy that Admiral wasnt responding to his cars finance company. But I can 
see from Admirals file that, after it first made contact, Admiral provided it with monthly 
updates. I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Our Investigator has already advised Mr S that if he wishes to complain about Admirals 
actions following its final response letter, then he would need to raise this Admiral first to 
give it a chance to respond.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman