DRN-2943179
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr M says Nationwide told him it was closing his accounts, a decision he says is unfair. He 
says he has made complaints to Nationwide which he is entitled to do, but that should not 
result in his accounts being closed. Mr M says Nationwides actions has caused him stress 
and he would like compensation, as well as it fined.
Nationwide says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close accounts by 
providing 60 days notice. It says Mr M has raised 36 complaints in five years and its clear 
the relationship between it and Mr M has broken down.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide had given Mr M the required 60 days notice of his accounts closing and 
that it wasnt obliged to provide a reason for doing so.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says he ought to be able to exercise his right 
of complaint without fear of his accounts being closed. And questions how many other 
customers are in a similar position. Mr M questions if there is a set quota of complaints that 
lead to account closures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ms account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the accounts were first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Nationwide can close a customers account without giving reasons by providing 60 days 
notice. I have looked at Nationwides records and can see that it told Mr M it was closing his 
accounts and gave him the required 60 days notice. So, I dont think Nationwide made a 
mistake or acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms accounts and find it was entitled to do so in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr M says he ought to be entitled to raise complaints, and I agree with him. But 
I also think Nationwide is entitled to decide with whom it wishes to have a business 
relationship. And I also think Nationwide acted fairly by telling Mr M the reasons why it no 
longer wished to have that business relationship with him, due to the 36 complaints in five 
years.
We are not Nationwides regulator as Mr M knows. So, I cant fairly comment on what Mr M 
says about other Nationwide customers or about complaint quotas.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide has acted in line with its terms and conditions and so I cant 
fairly order it to pay Mr M the compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman