DRN-3796659
The complaint
The estate of Mr R is unhappy with the settlement offered by American International Group 
UK Limited (AIG) under two personal accident cash plans he had taken out.
I will refer to the estate of Mr R in this decision as Mr R only.
There is a representative on this complaint, Mr P. The complaint has been brought by him on 
behalf of Mr Rs estate.
What happened
The late Mr R took out two personal accident cash plans in 2004  Ill call them Plan 1 and 
Plan 2. The underwriter for both plans is AIG. Mr R held these plans until he sadly passed 
away. 
On behalf of Mr Rs estate, Mr P found that Mr R did not claim under these plans for events 
that happened before he passed, which meant claims couldve been made under those 
plans. 
So, three claims were made to AIG retrospectively for three incidents where Mr R had 
suffered accidents. Mr P contacted AIG and was given the impression that it would pay the 
benefits under the plans for the injuries Mr R had suffered or, for the time, hed spent in 
hospital in relation to the injuries hed suffered.
AIG agreed to settle two of the claims. It said it settled the benefit payable for the injuries in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policies. And the hospitalisation benefit would only 
be paid if there was no other benefit to be paid. 
The third claim was declined as AIG didnt think the late Mr R was in hospital due to an 
accident because, the reason claimed for, was noted as a suspected trans ischemic attack 
(TIA).
Mr P made a complaint to AIG as he thought the hospitalisation benefit would be paid and 
there was a potential the benefit payable under this would be higher than that Mr R wouldve 
been entitled to for the accidents. Mr P also thought AIG should accept the claim for Mr R 
suffering a fall when he was admitted for TIA. 
AIG responded and agreed it gave Mr P incorrect information when the claim was first 
logged, so it offered £200 compensation in recognition of this failing. However, AIG said the 
settlements were carried out correctly and they were in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. It didnt agree that the hospitalisation benefit should be paid.
Mr P disagreed and brought the complaint to this service on behalf of Mr Rs estate. Our 
investigator looked into and didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that an error hadnt 
been made by AIG in assessing and calculating any settlements on the claims. She said its 
clear in the policy terms that the hospitalisation benefit is only payable if no other benefit is 
payable under the policy. Even though AIG gave Mr P incorrect advice initially, it has 
admitted the failure and offered £200 compensation which our investigator thought was fair 
and reasonable. 
Regarding the claim that was declined, our investigator said the evidence provided suggests 
Mr R hadnt suffered an accident and theres not sufficient evidence that points to the fall 
being a result of an accident. She was satisfied the claim hadnt been declined unfairly or 
unreasonably and didnt think AIG needed to do anything further. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I can see Mr P (on behalf of Mr Rs estate) feels strongly about both AIGs response to the 
claim as well as our investigators findings. I appreciate hes provided comprehensive 
responses to both. Id like to confirm though that by not repeating each point here, Im not in 
any way demeaning those responses and that I have read all the submissions carefully.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Mr Rs policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of the 
insurance contract between the two parties. In Plan 1, the section that applies and is 
relevant to this complaint is:
Section 2  Temporary Disabilities
If an insured person has an accident after the effective date shown in the schedule 
and suffers bodily injury which alone and within three months of the date of the 
accident, results in an insured injury (specifically mentioned in the table of benefits) 
or requires hospitalisation, we will pay the amount shown in the table of benefits as 
indicated by the level of cover shown on your schedule.
And, again, in the Temporary Disabilities section of Plan 2, it states:
If an insured person has an accident after the effective date shown in the schedule 
and suffers bodily injury which alone and within three months of the date of the 
accident, results in an insured injury under section 2 or requires hospitalisation, we 
will pay the amount shown in the table of benefits as indicated by the level of cover 
shown on your schedule.
The table of benefits for both policies states:
 Hospitalisation
Bodily injury requiring hospital confinement, as an in-patient for two or more days, 
where no other benefit is payable.The Insurance Product Information Documents (IPIDs) state what is insured. The 
hospitalisation benefit is payable for two or more days, following an injury, where no other 
benefit is payable. It also states that the insurance provides a range of cash benefits, for 
people aged over 50, for specified injuries or hospitalisation, as a result of bodily injury 
resulting from an accident. 
Based on the above terms and conditions, its clear that cover for the hospitalisation benefit 
is only payable where no other benefit is payable. 
Have the two settled claims been calculated fairly? 
Ive carefully considered how AIG has assessed the claims. Mr R sustained injuries and 
therefore, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies, this is the benefit 
thats payable under the policy. 
While Mr P believes that the hospitalisation benefit ought to be payable, Im not persuaded 
this is the case. The policy terms and conditions are clear in that this benefit would only be 
payable where no other benefit is payable  I cant see that is, in any way, unclear or that it 
could be interpreted as anything else but that. 
I appreciate that by paying the hospitalisation benefit that the settlement would potentially be 
higher. But thats not enough to say that the way the settlement has been calculated is 
unfair. Nor can I say that the calculations have been done outside the expectations of the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Im satisfied therefore that the two claims have been settled and calculated using the 
relevant terms and conditions of the policy and AIG has done so fairly and reasonably. Im 
not persuaded the hospitalisation benefit should be payable in the circumstances here.
Had the third claim been declined fairly?
This claim refers to Mr R being admitted to hospital on 15 February 2019 to 
22 February 2019. Mr P believes the hospitalisation benefit ought to be payable and the 
claim has been unfairly declined. 
Ive considered carefully the evidence provided by both parties.
The initial medical report shows Mr R was admitted to hospital due to a suspected TIA. This 
isnt noted as an accident and I cant consider it as such. And although Mr P says Mr R had 
a CT scan, this on its own doesnt necessarily mean its consistent with having a fall. A 
CT scan can be carried out for many reasons, and, in this case, it was done so because of a 
suspected stroke Mr R may have suffered. Its not also unusual to have a CT scan when a 
TIA is suspected so that of itself isnt enough to suggest that Mr R had a fall. The medical 
information provided for Mr R suggests the fall happened as a result of a TIA.
I can see Mr P has provided Mr Rs cleaners comments about what happened. This states 
that he had a fall. However, there isnt further evidence or comments from the cleaner about 
the details of what caused the fall  the note is a general in nature and confirms Mr R had a 
fall.  
And I can see theres a report from when Mr R was discharged in February 2019. There is 
suggestion in the report that the admission to hospital was as a result of bodily injuries. The 
diagnosis was a lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) and acute kidney injury (AKI). Ive 
considered this diagnosis and the acute kidney injury (although called an injury) isnt caused 
by an actual injury as both the LRTI and AKI are considered to be illnesses. Based on the evidence available, on balance, Im not persuaded the claim for this has been 
declined unfairly or unreasonably. The medical information suggests the fall was caused by 
a TIA and while I have considered the cleaners comments on the note provided, on the 
balance of probabilities, its more likely, from the evidence available, the fall was caused by a 
TIA. There isnt sufficient evidence to suggest otherwise. 
Is the compensation offered fair?
I acknowledge and appreciate that AIG failed to provide correct information when Mr P made 
initial enquiries on behalf of Mr Rs estate. I note that AIG has admitted its failing and 
apologised. Its also offered Mr Rs estate £200 compensation in recognition of this. 
I understand Mr P would like further compensation, but Im afraid I dont agree. Theres no 
doubt, or indeed a dispute on this point, that the service provided by AIG could have been 
better. But I dont think the compensation offered should increase. Mr Rs estate hasnt 
suffered a financial detriment as a result of this incorrect information provided by AIG. I 
havent found an error in the claims settlement  these have been made in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policies. Its therefore up to Mr P to decide if he wishes to accept 
the compensation on behalf of Mr Rs estate. I wont be recommending an increase in the 
offer. 
I acknowledge that Mr P would like a specific answer as to whether the £50 hospitalisation 
benefit is a daily rate or a one-off payment. However, I dont think this is relevant to the 
claims hes made on behalf of Mr Rs estate. As Ive said above, the hospitalisation benefit 
would only be payable if there was no other benefit payable under the plans. In the 
circumstances here, thats not the case. There is no hospitalisation benefit payable under 
Mr Rs plan. Therefore, this question has no bearing on the complaint or the outcome so I 
have not considered it further and there isnt a need to comment on this.
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask AIG to calculate the settlement on the two claims by paying the 
hospitalisation benefit. I also dont think I could fairly ask AIG to settle the third claim or 
increase the offer of compensation. It follows therefore that I dont require AIG to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr Rs complaint about American 
International Group UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman