DRN-2687724
The complaint
Ms N complains about the settlement paid by AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of a claim 
made under her landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Ms N made a claim to AXA after a water leak in the property. AXA accepted the claim and 
paid a cash settlement. 
Ms N was unhappy that the cash settlement didnt cover the cost of replacing all the flooring 
on the first floor of the property. She was also unhappy that AXA hadnt included VAT in the 
cash settlement. Finally, Ms N was concerned that the joists may also be damaged. 
AXA said it would only cover the cost of replacing the damaged flooring because there were 
break points in the flooring at each doorway, and the planks of wood didnt run continuously. 
In respect of VAT, it said this would need to be charged and paid for it to reimburse Ms N for 
this. AXA said it would pay a contribution towards replacing the joists. Finally, it paid Ms N 
£300 compensation for errors made during its handling of the claim. Unhappy with this, Ms N 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXAs claims 
decisions had been fair, and the compensation it had paid for its handling of the claim had 
been reasonable. 
Ms N didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Flooring
AXA has settled the claim for the damaged bedroom flooring, as its required to do under the 
policy. However, Ms N thinks it should also cover/contribute towards the cost of replacing 
undamaged flooring. She says the wooden flooring in the bedrooms, the landing, and the 
living/dining area was all colour matched. She cant now get the same replacement flooring, 
and so she thinks the colour of new flooring in the bedroom will look odd against the rest. 
Ms Ns policy includes reinstatement to match. I think the relevant part under that section is:
This Policy further extends to include the replacement or modification of undamaged 
BUILDINGS insofar as it is necessary to adapt it or replace it to operate in conjunction with 
the BUILDING suffering DAMAGE and which has been replaced repaired or restored 
The point for me to therefore consider is whether its necessary for AXA to replace the 
undamaged flooring so that it operates in conjunction with the flooring that has been 
replaced (or will be replaced). In other words, is the undamaged flooring a matching set with 
the bedroom flooring?
Ive looked at photos of the flooring in the property, and its apparent that the flooring 
throughout is the same colour. However, there is separation of the rooms by way of door 
bars. Ms N explains the door bars are there to prevent expansion due to climate changes, 
and makes the point that the door bars have also been colour matched with the flooring.
I do understand Ms Ns points, and I recognise she feels very strongly about this. However, 
this services usual approach in such cases is that where theres a door bar, this is a division 
across the rooms and therefore the flooring isnt a matching set. I see no reason to depart 
from this approach here.
I know that Ms N used the same colour flooring throughout for aesthetic reasons, but its not 
unusual to have different flooring in different rooms. Taking that into account, and that 
theres division between the rooms by way of door bars (regardless of the reason for that), 
Im satisfied that it wasnt necessary for AXA to cover the cost of replacing the undamaged 
flooring.
VAT
Ms N says the cash settlement AXA has paid has been based on quotes provided by a VAT 
registered contractor. That may be the case, but that doesnt necessarily mean that Ms N will 
choose to use that contractor to do the repairs. As not all contractors are VAT registered, I 
think it was reasonable for AXA to offer to reimburse Ms N for the VAT once the repairs have 
been completed and it can see that VAT has been charged.   
Joists
Ms N confirms that she accepts our investigators findings in respect of the joists. Though for 
clarity, Id like to confirm that I agree with our investigator on this point. Theres no evidence 
at present to support that the joists have been so damaged by the leak that they require 
replacement. Nonetheless, AXA chose to make a contribution of £1,183.42 towards the 
replacement on a goodwill basis. That was up to AXA. 
Ms N hasnt yet carried out the repairs. Though AXA has said that when the stripping out 
takes place, if the joists are found to be damaged as a result of the leak and need to be 
replaced, it will consider this further. I think that seems reasonable. 
Other issues
I note that AXAs loss adjuster didnt take correct measurements. This caused Ms N 
unnecessary inconvenience as she had to arrange for a third party to obtain floor plans from 
the council. She was also told by the loss adjuster that VAT wouldnt be payable. Although 
this was later corrected and she was advised that she could claim this back from AXA, I 
wouldve expected the loss adjuster to have known that she could claim back VAT even after 
a cash settlement had been paid. There were also some further minor issues caused by the 
loss adjuster.
Overall, AXA accepted that its loss adjuster ought to have provided a better service to Ms N 
on its behalf. I would agree with this, though I think the £300 paid to Ms N is reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to her.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that AXA has paid 
reasonable compensation for its errors.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman