DRN-4309048
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt fairly settled their 
claim on their motor insurance policy. Mrs K is a named driver on Mr Ks policy, and she 
represents him in this matter. She wants Admiral to repair the car or write it off and pay her 
compensation for her transport costs and trouble and upset.
 
What happened
Mr Ks imported car was damaged in an incident and Admiral accepted his claim for repairs. 
But Admiral wasnt able to locate the parts needed for the repairs, so it paid Mr K a cash in 
lieu settlement for his claim. Mr K was unhappy as he couldnt source the parts locally and 
the costs of importing them was high. So the car was unusable. Admiral agreed its service 
had been wanting and it paid Mr K £100 compensation for this.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
could either repair the car or pay a sum for the repair costs. But it hadnt done either. So she 
thought Admiral should either pay reasonable import costs and repair the car or pay Mr K the 
cars market value. And she thought Admiral should increase its compensation for its level of 
service to £400. 
Mr K replied that he accepted this. But Admiral replied that it had paid cash in lieu of repairs 
in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. It said it wouldnt import parts or pay for 
this. It wanted to see evidence that Mr K hadnt been able to source the parts locally before it 
considered a total loss settlement. Admiral asked for the Ombudsman referral to be paused 
until it had seen Mr Ks evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now more than a year since Admiral paid Mr K a cash settlement for his repair costs and, 
from what I can see, the unusable car remains on Mr Ks driveway. Admiral was provided 
with Mr Ks evidence showing that the parts werent available locally and the costs of 
importing them over a month ago. It hasnt provided a further response, so I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to now make a decision on this complaint. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral said it wasnt able to source parts to repair Mr Ks car. Mr Ks policy states on page 
15 of the policy booklet:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay:
 to repair your vehicle
 a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle. Should 
we deem your vehicle repairable but are unable to complete or guarantee the repairs, we will 
offer you a cash sum to cover reasonable costs of parts and labour.
So Admiral said it was entitled to pay cash for replacement of the damaged part. Admiral 
gave Mr K some options he could pursue to look for parts locally. It suggested that he could 
look at online forums and website, local breakers yard or contact the main dealer for 
reconditioned parts. But it also told him that it hadnt explored all the options available. 
Mr K has provided evidence to show that he looked into these options, but he couldnt locate 
the needed parts locally. So he looked at importing them, but the costs were higher than 
Admirals cash payment and the logistics were complicated. 
As our Investigator has explained, Admiral was aware that Mr Ks car was imported, and it 
provided cover for it. Admiral is required by the policys terms and conditions to try to repair 
the car. The policy doesnt exclude importing needed parts. 
So I think that if the parts arent available locally, then Admiral should cover the reasonable 
import costs, but it hasnt done so. The other option available under the policys terms and 
conditions is for Admiral to declare the car to be a total loss and to pay Mr K the cars market 
value. But it hasnt done this either. 
So Im not satisfied that Admiral dealt with Mr Ks claim in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions or fairly and reasonably. And so I think it should now reopen the claim and 
decide which of the above options to follow. 
Mr K has suffered considerable stress and inconvenience during this claim. The Investigator 
has already explained that his direct financial costs for alternative transport and 
inconvenience should be covered under his legal expenses claim. Admiral has paid Mr K 
£100 compensation for his inconvenience and for the delay in responding to his complaint. 
But Im not satisfied that this goes far enough in the circumstances. Our Investigator 
recommended that Admiral should increase its compensation payment to £400. I think thats 
in keeping with our published guidance for when an error has caused significant trouble and 
upset over a period of many months. So I think thats fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr K either the reasonable import costs for the needed parts for his car or declare 
the car to be a total loss and pay him the cars market value.  
2. Pay Mr K £400 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman