DRN-4087922
The complaint
Mr R feels that American Express Services Europe Limited has treated him unfairly about a 
transaction on his credit card to purchase interlocking flooring.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr R purchased interlocking flooring to be installed at his home using his 
American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) credit card to pay for it. Mr R 
says there was trouble with the flooring from the start and he spoke to the company he 
purchased it from (the Supplier) of the flooring but was unsuccessful. So he took his dispute 
to Amex in November 2019.
Amex said it considered the dispute and noted that it had considered S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 but felt the necessary relationship for S75 to apply wasnt in place. So it 
didnt think it could do anything more for Mr R. (Chargeback has been dealt with separately 
and isnt part of this complaint). Unhappy with this Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator issued an assessment on the matter which found that the required 
relationship for S75 wasnt in place. But Mr R doesnt agree. So this dispute came to me to 
decide.
In November 2022 I issued a provisional decision stating that the required relationship issue 
wasnt central to this case as I wasnt persuaded that there was a breach of contract or 
material misrepresentation which Amex could be held responsible for. Amex responded 
saying it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr R provided significant and substantial 
comments on the matter including further evidence, photographs, and review of the flooring 
by an independent expert. 
In a further provisional decision I issued dated 04 April 2023 I reconsidered the matter afresh 
and concluded that the DCS arrangement was in place and that the S75 claim should be 
successful in large part due to the new evidence. Both parties have responded to this 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my second provisional decision Amex has agreed to the settlement I put 
forward in terms of remedying the matter. Mr R has made some further arguments which I 
will deal with under the heading further arguments. I shall now set out the broad rationale 
from my recent provisional decision, which is from the end of this sentence to the heading of 
further arguments.
There is no debate that Mr R authorised the transaction and chargeback has been dealt with 
separately as Ive described.
Section 75
Here I must consider what Amex should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law including both 
legislation and case law. In this case, the relevant starting point is S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr R paid for goods 
or services on his credit card and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
Supplier, Amex can be held responsible.
For claritys sake I shall explain the underpinning legislation concerning the DCS concept 
before explaining my thinking on this case. S75(1) states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So s.75 only applies if:
i) There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (or DCS agreement, for short) of the 
type that falls within s.12(b) or (c);
ii) That agreement finances the transaction between the debtor (Mr R) and the supplier; 
and,
iii)  If, relating to that transaction, the debtor (Mr R) has a claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If so, then the creditor 
(Amex) is jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
S.12(b) applies to:  
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier
S.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use credit agreement as a regulated consumer credit 
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other than the 
creditor
Subsections 11(3) & (4) provide:
"(3) An agreement does not fall within subsection (1) if the credit is in fact provided in such a 
way as to leave the debtor free to use it as he chooses, even though certain uses would 
contravene that or any other agreement.
(4) An agreement may fall within subsection (1)(b) although the identity of the supplier is 
unknown at the time the agreement is made."
Section 187 provides:
"(1) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance with, or in 
furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons mentioned in subsection 
(4)(a), (b) or (c).
(2) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into in contemplation of future 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in the expectation that 
arrangements will subsequently be made between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), 
(b) or (c) for the supply of cash, goods and services (or any of them) to be financed by the 
consumer credit agreement.
(3) Arrangements shall be disregarded for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2) if
(a) they are arrangements for the making, in specified circumstances, of payments to the 
supplier by the creditor, and
(b) the creditor holds himself out as willing to make, in such circumstances, payments of the 
kind to suppliers generally.(4) The persons referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are
(a) the creditor and the supplier;
And s.189 says finance means to wholly or partly finance, and that financed shall be 
construed accordingly.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the Creditor) and the cardholder (the Debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the supplier under which the supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of S75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case). The 
Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which S75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.In the House of Lords in the same case Lord Mance said, in relation to the recruitment of 
overseas suppliers to the network:
30.  That, in today's market, arrangements between card issuers and overseas suppliers 
under schemes such as VISA and MasterCard are indirect (rather than pursuant to a direct 
contract as is still the case with American Express and Diners Club) is a consequence of the 
way in which the VISA and MasterCard networks have developed and operate. Likewise, the 
fact that the rules of these networks give card issuers no direct choice as to the suppliers in 
relation to whom their cards will be used. The choice of suppliers is, in effect, delegated to 
the merchant acquirers in each country in which these networks operate, and provision is 
made, as one would expect, to ensure and monitor the reliability of such suppliers in the 
interests of all network members. That network rules may not provide all the protections that 
they might, e.g. by way of indemnity and/or jurisdiction agreements, is neither here nor there. 
They could in theory do so, and it is apparent that there are some differences in this respect 
between different networks. The Crowther Report and 1974 Act proceed on the basis of a 
relatively simple model which contemplated that card issuers would have direct control of 
such matters. A more sophisticated worldwide network, like VISA or MasterCard, offers both 
card issuers and card holders considerable countervailing benefits. Card issuers make a 
choice, commercially inevitable though it may have become, to join one of these networks, 
for better or worse.
Lord Mance was talking about the conditions that existed almost twenty years ago, because 
the case from which he was hearing an appeal went to trial in 2004. But, I think it is clear that 
even by then the commercial practices by which card networks recruited suppliers had 
evolved by developing a system that left supplier recruitment to intermediaries, and card 
issuers were faced with an essentially commercial decision as to whether to participate in 
network that included suppliers who had been recruited that way.  Since 2004, new 
technology and the growth of internet commerce have opened up additional channels for 
recruiting suppliers and routing payment to them (for example, payment facilitators, which 
are now an established part of the payments industry) and, again, card networks have 
changed their rules and practices in response. 
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Mr Rs case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of what happened as best I can and the relation between the 
parties involved. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Rs case. In order for S75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between Amex and the Supplier to finance transactions between 
Amexs cardholders and the Supplier. Its clear that there was no direct arrangement 
between them, but this isnt a requirement for the application of S75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers in the four-
party situation. He said that the use of the word showed a deliberate intention on the part of 
the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be contrasted with the word 
agreement. In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that arrangements should be given 
a narrower meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of 
Appeal agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been used to embrace a wide range 
of commercial structures having substantially the same effect. They held that it was not 
required for arrangements to be made directly by or between the creditor and supplier, 
merely that arrangements should exist between them, and it was difficult to resist the conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers and suppliers who 
agreed to accept their cards, and stated:
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Ive also considered the recent High Court case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank 
(2022) EWHC 2519 (the Steiner case). This case involved payments to a trust for the 
provision of a timeshare supplied by a timeshare provider.  The High Court dismissed the 
claim under s.75 on the basis that the timeshare purchase was not made under a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. This was because payment had been made in the first instance 
to the trust company, whereas the claim related to agreement to purchase a timeshare from 
the timeshare provider. Mr Steiners credit card was issued under the MasterCard scheme 
and the trust company was a member of the MasterCard network, but the timeshare provider 
was not. 
The Judge (Lavender J) held that central question was not whether "arrangements" existed 
between the bank and the timeshare provider at the time when Mr and Mrs Steiner had 
entered into their agreement with the timeshare provider and Mr Steiner had used his card to 
pay the trust company. Rather, the question posed by s.12(b) CCA was whether Mr Steiners 
credit card agreement with the bank was made by the creditor (i.e. the bank) under pre-
existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between the creditor 
(i.e. the bank) and the timeshare provider. When a bank made an agreement with one of its 
customers in relation to a card issued by the bank to the customer, then the agreement was 
made under the card network, which constituted "arrangements" between the bank and the 
other members of the network.  So, if a supplier was already a member of the card network, 
the agreement was made "under pre-existing arrangements ... between the bank and the 
supplier".  The bank was also aware that other merchants were likely to join the card 
network in the future, so in that respect the agreement was made "in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between the bank and merchant who subsequently joins the card network.
However, in the absence of specific factual evidence as to the bank's state of mind, the 
Judge said it was difficult to envisage that a bank which issued a card to its customer and 
made a credit card agreement in relation to that card made that agreement under, or in 
contemplation of, any arrangements other than the card network. And, as the timeshare 
provider was outside the card network, it didnt supply the timeshare under a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement. 
Is there a DCS agreement here? 
The question of whether Mr Rs transaction took place under a DCS agreement seems to me 
to turn in this case on two matters: first, whether there existed arrangements between Amex 
and the Supplier for the financing of transactions with the Suppliers customers; and second, 
if such arrangements existed, whether that was the case when Amex entered a credit 
agreement with Mr R or, if the arrangements came into existence after that, whether Amex 
contemplated that they would do so. Ill examine those questions in turn.
Arrangements 
Our Investigator looked into the transaction primarily based on the information Amex had 
given this service about the presence of a fourth party in the transaction namely PayPal. Our 
investigator later contacted PayPal and asked it what its role was in the transaction. PayPal 
responded and has been forthcoming in its role within this transaction and more broadly 
about the services it provides.PayPal is a well-known provider of a variety of financial transactional services. This includes 
both payment processing and E-Money provision amongst other services. In this particular 
transaction PayPal has provided evidence around this specific transaction including its 
internal report of the transaction in question. It shows two transactions for exactly the same 
amount of money at exactly the same date and time (to the second). One transaction is the 
amount (the cost of the flooring) being charged to Mr Rs Amex credit card to fund Mr Rs 
account with PayPal. The second transaction is from Mr Rs PayPal account to the 
Suppliers account.
The transactional record PayPal has provided shows that Mr Rs account with it was of a 
zero balance immediately before the transaction and returned to zero after the transaction 
completed (after a partial refund is made and then reversed). It also shows the status of the 
charge to the credit card being completed and both transactions being apparently 
instantaneous. It refers to the transaction paid to the Supplier as being express checkout 
payment. Such dual transactions are sometimes referred to as back to back transactions.
PayPal has explained that the Supplier also had an account with it. In essence it appears 
that the Supplier had outsourced its payments processes to PayPal in this instance. So the 
Supplier by dint of having a commercial entity agreement with PayPal is bound by its rules. 
Mr R by dint of having a PayPal account is also bound by its rules. And clearly Amex is 
aware it is funding Mr Rs PayPal account, which it knows is funding transactions with 
suppliers of goods and services.
It is clear that this transaction from Mr Rs credit card to the Suppliers account with PayPal 
is in essence instantaneous. The amount debited from Mr Rs account is the same amount in 
Great British Pounds that is credited to the Suppliers account. It also seems likely here that 
there is a conversion to E-Money in the transaction from Mr Rs card to his account with 
PayPal but I dont think it makes a difference here and doesnt prevent there from being a 
DCS agreement for reasons I shall give in this decision later.
I should add at this juncture that Amex has provided minimal representations to support its 
argument here on DCS. It hasnt provided detail about the exact journey of this transaction 
nor explained why it believes that there is no longer a relevant DCS relationship in regard to 
this transaction other than pointing to the presence of another party. It has not explained why 
the arrangement in this case should be distinguished from the established legal authorities. 
Nor has it chosen to provide supporting evidence about the agreements in place between 
the various parties. It has only pointed to PayPal and in essence said the mere presence of 
PayPal is proof that there is no relevant DCS relationship.  
It may be that in this case there was a Merchant Acquirer as well. But whether there was a 
four-party arrangement here or indeed a five-party arrangement present in Mr Rs case, 
either way Im still satisfied that there are sufficient arrangements between Amex, as card 
issuer, and the Supplier, for the purposes of establishing a DCS relationship, I shall now 
explain why.
In Mr Rs case, I think there are indications of relevant arrangements even before looking at 
the contractual obligations undertaken by the parties, given that PayPal was specifically, and 
publicly in the business of processing or facilitating financial transactions such as the 
transaction in this case. It should also be noted that PayPal is a very large company 
generating vast numbers of transactions which go through all the card networks and 
payment methods every day. So clearly Amex (and the other networks) have decided to 
allow such payments to go through their networks. And it would seem that, considering the 
commercial benefits of such volumes of transactions, this is entirely understandable.Here PayPal is specifically and publicly in the business of providing financial transactional 
services to suppliers, such as to the Supplier here. Amex would be able to know the parties 
within the arrangement here included PayPal and that PayPals business involved 
processing payments for its customers, such as the Supplier and Mr R. And the Supplier 
was obliged through its agreement with PayPal to also be bound to follow its rules. 
Fundamentally, it follows that Amex financed the transaction between Mr R and the Supplier 
by making credit available at the point of purchase in accordance with the credit agreement 
between them. The fact that it does so through the medium of PayPal does not detract from 
that: it is Amex's agreement to provide credit to Mr R that provides the financial basis for the 
transaction with the Supplier. And all of this done with both Mr R and the Supplier being 
required to comply with PayPals rules.
I would also note that both Amex and the Supplier undoubtedly benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other, through the intermediations of PayPal (and any Merchant 
Acquirer present), in a way that makes it possible to allow the transaction to happen. By 
financing purchases from the Supplier, Amex are able to lend money to their customer (Mr 
R) and make interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the Supplier is able to 
obtain payments from Amexs credit card holders and so benefit from the credit Amex 
extended (albeit indirectly).
Contemplation
It is possible that Amex may argue that such arrangements as those present in Mr Rs case 
were outside of its contemplation at the time when it agreed with Mr R to open his credit card 
account, and thus there is no DCS agreement for it to be liable under. 
Given that payments systems and card networks have continuously changed and evolved 
over the past half century, I think it likely that Amex as lender always understood that card 
schemes and payment systems would be operated in accordance with evolving rules and 
commercial practices, and that this evolution was likely to bring in new groups of 
participants. Amex must have known it and other card schemes would try to adapt 
themselves to accommodate major changes in the payments industry; and it would certainly 
not have expected that each customer to whom it issued a credit card would only make 
purchases from the suppliers recruited under the rules and practices applicable at the date 
when the credit agreement was first entered into. Rather, it would have contemplated that all 
its credit card holders would (irrespective of when their credit agreement started) have 
access to the same suppliers, i.e. those suppliers allowed under the relevant network or 
payment system. So, I think Amex must have contemplated, when agreeing to give Mr R a 
credit card, that his card would be used to finance purchases from whatever suppliers it or 
PayPals changing rules and practices accommodated at the time of the purchase. 
In this case, the credit card payment went to the Supplier via PayPal and this transactional 
process between debtors and suppliers is commonplace.  It is a method of payment to a 
type of supplier that Amex accommodates and, as such, I consider that it was within Amexs 
contemplation when the credit card agreement was entered into. 
Conversion
Amex may point to the conversion from Sterling to E-money as a reason for why there might 
no longer be a DCS agreement. But Im not persuaded by this either, because had there 
been a conversion of foreign currency in the transaction as is the case in huge numbers of 
credit card transactions used during holidays abroad the accepted position is DCS isnt 
broken. And usually in such foreign transactions there is a fee charged for providing the 
added service of the currency exchange. It is important to remember here that the entire 
sum here was funded by the Amexs credit card. This transaction wasnt funded by the balance already held in the account with PayPal. This was a near instantaneous transaction 
from Mr Rs credit card to the Supplier through the intermediation of the financial 
transactional service as provided by PayPal. And I cannot see a fee being directly charged 
for the exchange to E-money here. And even if there was such a fee whether directly applied 
to the transaction or as part of the overall service that PayPal provided, I dont think it would 
make this transaction distinguishable from the other types of currency exchanges Ive 
described. 
I should also note that PayPal in its evidence to this service previously has stated that its 
Guest Checkout service converts to E-Money but doesnt disrupt the DCS relationship. So 
Im not persuaded the conversion in itself should prevent there from being a DCS agreement 
here as, to my mind, this conversion does not negate the arrangements in place between the 
parties as Ive described.
Accounts
It may be that Amex points to the fact that the transaction journey is from Mr Rs card into Mr 
Rs account with PayPal and then onto the Suppliers account with PayPal as a reason why 
to consider their might not be a DCS agreement. But Im not persuaded by this. There are 
still the necessary arrangements to my mind. Merchant Acquirers, Payment Processors and 
those parties providing currency conversion services have accounts in which transactions 
pass through on their journey from debtor to supplier. Ive not seen any persuasive reason to 
distinguish what happened here from the authorities mentioned before. 
The other networks stance
Mastercards public stance on this matter generally is unclear from my research. I do note 
however that one of the other major networks (Visa) has made clear on its website that it 
does, at least imply, that DCS isnt disrupted. It has said:
If your Visa card purchase was made using a digital wallet where the payment was made 
with a linked card, chargeback and Section 75 claims work in the same way as if you paid 
directly with your card.
So all in all Ive not seen any persuasive evidence at this stage that the additional services 
provided by PayPal interrupts the DCS agreement. Im also satisfied this transaction fits 
within the financial limits set out in relation to S75 claims as described in the Act. Accordingly 
Im satisfied at this time that there is the necessary DCS agreement and a S75 claim can be 
successful if the other requirements are made out. 
liability
As Ive explained, for Amex to be liable under S75 a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation needs to be made out. Mr R in response to my earlier provisional decision 
on the matter has provided further, and to my mind persuasive, evidence on the quality of 
the flooring provided. This has been provided to Amex which has responded by saying:
I appreciate that they have supplied photographs that show the faults with the product, but I 
feel these do not prove that the product was faulty from purchase and would not prove 
satisfactory in our investigation. The independent report that has been provided, however, 
does hold more weight as it states the reviewers belief that the product has not been 
properly manufactured.
Ive considered the Independent report Mr R has provided. It is clear an independent 
company has visited and reviewed the flooring at Mr Rs premises. The inspection has said I would not expect this to have gapped to this extent if this had been properly 
manufactured
Ive also considered Mr Rs substantial evidence with regard to the surrounding issues such 
as the underfloor that this flooring was installed upon (with photos), the comments of the 
manufacturer in its advertising that Mr R points towards, the further evidence Mr R has 
provided showing the scale of issues with the flooring, Mr Rs new evidence including 
photographs showing where the flooring was stored prior to installation and Mr Rs detailed 
response to my provisional decision.
Ive also considered Amexs position on the flooring, which gives no persuasive reasoning as 
to why Amex feels these do not prove that the product was faulty from purchase... It just 
says that is its position. I also note its acceptance that the independent report carries weight 
before returning to its arguments about DCS.
All goods sold should be of satisfactory quality. Having considered the matter afresh and 
bearing in mind the test I must apply of balance of probabilities, it is evident now, to me, that 
this flooring wasnt of satisfactory quality when purchased. I say this because it is clearly 
insufficiently durable and clearly had defects from the start which have worsened over time. 
And I think the independent report here, plus further evidence since my provisional decision 
are more than sufficient to change my original position on the matter.
Further arguments
Amex has agreed to settle the matter as Id previously set out. I am glad to see that it has 
accepted the weight of further evidence on the liability aspect of this case.
Mr R has asked for significant compensation to reflect the issues that this matter has had on 
his family including such things as stress and impact. Under S75 Amex is only liable for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. It isnt liable for distress or inconvenience like that 
which Mr R points to, so such an award is not applicable here. Bearing in mind the usage of 
the flooring Mr R has had (albeit sub-optimally) Im not persuaded there should be any 
award for consequential loss.
Mr R asks why interest is at 8%. This has been our standard rate for an elongated period of 
time and reflects our and the courts approach to being deprived of money. It is not linked to 
any of the variety of measures of inflation. And I see no persuasive reason to deviate from it 
here.
Mr R has asked about the removal of the flooring. Amex has not indicated that it wishes to 
take possession of the flooring. If it does wish to do so it should do so at its own cost. And if 
it does do this it must pay the redress to Mr R before doing so, to enable him not to be 
without flooring.
Mr R has pointed to the changing cost of flooring since the transaction in question. Im not 
persuaded Amex should be responsible for this considering what happened here, and the 
usage hes had (albeit sub-optimally) and in any event Mr R has made clear he doesnt 
intend to replace like for like.
Having considered the matters again, and particularly the further arguments made Im not 
persuaded to deviate from my previous position. Accordingly under S75 I have decided that 
that there is a DCS arrangement and that there is a breach of contract here and Amex is 
liable for the reasons given. It may be that Mr R remains unhappy with this final decision. He 
should be aware that if he chooses to not accept it then Amex is not bound by it.Putting things right
Mr R has requested a full refund for the flooring. Taking into account all of the circumstances 
I think this is a fair remedy. I think such flooring should be expected to last many years, so I 
dont think a reduction for usage here is fair. Amex can take possession of the flooring at its 
own cost and after it has settled the matter so that Mr R is not left without flooring. Amex 
must pay 8% interest on this amount from when it rejected Mr Rs S75 claim to it until it 
settles this matter.
My final decision
It is my decision that this complaint should be successful. I have decided that there is the 
required DCS agreement under s.75, and on balance, there is a breach of contract. So I 
direct that American Express Services Europe Limited must compensate Mr R for the loss 
suffered here as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman