DRN-3021778
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited misadvised them when providing 
information about fixed rate bonds meaning they agreed to start new bonds at a lower 
interest rate and lost the opportunity to place their funds into their existing bond.  
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs M want Shawbrook to make good the interest rate 
they could have received if they had been properly informed along with an apology and 
assurances that Shawbrook wont make this type of mistake with any other customers.     
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held two existing bonds with Shawbrook. These were due to mature on 5 July 
and 29 July 2020. Mrs M also held a three year fixed rate bond. 
In June 2020, Mr M called Shawbrook to discuss reinvesting the funds for himself and Mrs 
M. They were offered new fixed rate 18-month bonds at a rate of 1.20% gross. Mr and Mrs 
M agreed to take out the two further bonds with Mrs M calling to confirm. Shawbrook said 
the funds could be rolled over without completing maturity paperwork for the existing bonds.  
Thereafter several calls took place from Mr and Mrs M about the setting up of the new 
bonds. 
On 14 September 2020, Mr and Mrs M spoke with Shawbrook again to discuss further 
savings they wanted to reinvest. They say Shawbrook then told them that the existing three-
year bond (with a gross interest rate of 2.30%) was open for deposits. That meant they could 
have placed the funds from the two earlier matured bonds into this bond rather than open 
new ones. Mr and Mrs M therefore complained, and said that they had been misinformed.
In January 2021, Shawbrook rejected the complaint. It said that when a customer calls into 
its savings team, the call handlers are not expected to inform them of all of the rates 
available on existing accounts. And, that information would be known to the customers 
already. As it was predominantly an online bank, Shawbrook said its customers could verify 
old interest rates by looking at the relevant products withdrawn section on its website.  
It also pointed Mr and Mrs M to section 8.8 of the three-year bonds terms and conditions 
which said once your account is open and subject to the account conditions in the Key 
Product Information, you can make additional deposits to your account at any time until the 
product to which that account relates is closed to new applications or additional funding 
(which you can check on the "Withdrawn Products" section of our website).
Shawbrook therefore concluded its call handler hadnt done anything wrong in June 2020. It 
did, however, offer as a gesture of goodwill to cancel the two 18-month bonds and transfer 
the funds to the three-year bond. 
Mr and Mrs M recognised the gesture, but said they had missed that opportunity several 
months before  and they felt they shouldnt be at fault for that. So, they referred the 
complaint to this service.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint and he thought it should succeed. He said 
Shawbrook had explained how when a customer calls in, it is for the call handler to decide 
whether to review the existing accounts a customer may already have with Shawbrook. He 
also noted Shawbrook had explained that its call handlers were not specifically trained about 
reviewing existing holdings.  
He also noted that Shawbrook had since confirmed its customer service representatives will 
now make customers aware if they have the option of adding funds to an existing bond. 
The investigator felt that Mr and Mrs M would have opted to top up their existing bond and 
therefore Shawbrook ought to make up the shortfall between the interest Mr and Mrs M have 
received on the two 18-month fixed rate bonds, and the interest they wouldve received had 
the funds been transferred into their three-year fixed rate bond instead.
Mr and Mrs M accepted the investigators findings. However, Shawbrook said it did not 
agree. It made a number of further submissions, noting that:
it maintains it has not done anything wrong;
it was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to be aware of the rates and terms and 
conditions as they applied to their specific bonds;
it is also their responsibility to check its website for updates;
its call handlers can only answer questions asked of them;
it isnt appropriate for its agents to talk through every aspect of terms and conditions 
when a customer calls in unless asked  and the call handler wasnt asked;
this is not a case where a customer question was answered incorrectly;
Mr and Mrs M did not ask the relevant question relating to their existing bond;
the investigator suggested that there had been a policy change  and this was 
incorrect;
the notes the investigator referred to by the call handler said that the rates of existing 
products could be checked whilst on the phone to a customer  if asked;
the onus is still on the customer to be aware of the relevant terms and conditions for 
their specific product;
the investigator is using hindsight to determine what Mr and Mrs M would otherwise 
have done  the fact is they did not look elsewhere or review their existing bond;
the offer it made was a gesture of goodwill and no reflection of wrongdoing;
the investigator suggested that there is an approach to cases such as these  
Shawbrook was concerned that a precedent could be set for upholding complaints 
where a business is expected to disregard terms and conditions whether a customer 
adhered to them or not;
if Mr and Mrs M were aware of their bonds terms and conditions, they could have 
acted within those terms and Shawbrook has not done anything wrong;
they had the information from the outset and could have reviewed the terms.  
Mr M said that he had recently called Shawbrook again to discuss their bond maturing in 
July 2021 and this time the call handler had placed him on hold whilst their existing products 
were reviewed  in his view, this showed Shawbrook had changed its practices. 
Our investigator considered the responses further, but remained of the same view. He 
explained that he had considered what was fair in the circumstances, and not what was any 
type of binding precedent. He still felt that Shawbrook had not done enough to make Mr and 
Mrs M aware that their existing bond had a higher rate and could be added to. Shawbrook 
did explain this on the call of September 2020 and could have done so in June.  Shawbrook didnt offer any other reply, and the complaint was referred to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I can see Mr and Mrs M have been through a particularly difficult time during the 
course of the complaint and I wish to send them my best wishes. 
Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M called Shawbrook on 22 June 2020 to discuss his and Mrs Ms options for the two 
bonds that were maturing the following month. It is not disputed that the call handler didnt 
mention that Mrs M held the further bond due to mature on 5 July 2021  instead two 18-
month bonds were proposed.  
The paperwork Mr and Mrs M were sent regarding their maturity options would not have put 
them on notice of the other interest rate, because it related to the two bonds being 
surrendered, not the third bond that had another year left to run.  
In offering the products to Mr and Mrs M, I believe Shawbrook had a duty to ensure that it 
gave them clear information about their options  and I dont believe it did so. 
I accept that in section 8.8 of their existing bond terms, it said how additional funds could be 
added to bonds that hadnt been withdrawn. Shawbrook is right that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
check those terms despite having a paper copy issued to them when the bond was opened. 
Be that as it may, Mr and Mrs M couldnt have known if the product was withdrawn without 
receipt of further information from Shawbrook because Mr and Mrs M have no internet 
access and do not use computers. They have explained how they are vulnerable in respect 
of their ages and health circumstances; they rely solely on calls and postal correspondence.
Further, I dont interpret the complaint in the same way Shawbrook does in respect of the 
terms and conditions. To uphold this complaint isnt suggesting that a business must be 
expected to act outside of the product terms or disregard them. Mr and Mrs M arent 
disputing the terms apply  they would have wanted to put their funds in the existing bond 
with its preferential rate. But they werent aware of the particular condition at clause 8.8.
In my view, Shawbrook and its call handlers were in an informed position. If a call handler 
was recommending a transfer of the proceeds (approximately £12,000 and £41,000 
respectively) into new bonds for which it says it can avoid paperwork, I would reasonably 
expect it to explore Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. Whilst it did not need to go further and 
look at the open market, the call handler could have identified that Mrs M had an existing 
Shawbrook bond where the maturity values could be invested with Mr Ms joint consent.  
On 14 September 2020 a different call handler was able to confirm that all three bonds 
(including the existing one) were open for funding. That neither call handler was able to tell 
Mr or Mrs M about the same in June 2020 wasnt the fault of Mr and Mrs M. It is for 
Shawbrook to decide how it handles calls to the savings team, but I believe the information 
should reasonably have been open and available to a call handler in that department. 
Its for that reason that Shawbrook confirmed to our investigator in May 2021 that within the 
last couple of months the process had been amended to ensure call handlers do make existing customers aware if they have a product which can still be funded.  
Finally, I note Mr and Mrs M have asked for compensation to be considered for the delay in 
Shawbrook answering the investigator following his second view on the complaint. However, 
I cant make pecuniary awards for the manner in which Shawbrook has dealt with this 
complaint; that isnt within my remit. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity  meaning 
one which falls within the rules of this service. Instead, I have looked at the complaint 
brought here regarding the two proposed investment bonds (which was a regulated activity) 
and the inactions of Shawbrooks call handlers in respect of funding the existing bond. 
Putting things right
In my view, it is clear that Mr and Mrs M were looking to reinvest their savings from the two 
bonds into a new product for a short to medium term  which is why they opted for the 18-
month offering proposed by Shawbrook.  
It is unclear if the goodwill offer was accepted in early 2021 (and the bonds transferred). 
Nonetheless, if Shawbrook had checked that Mrs Ms bond (with just over a year left to run) 
could still be funded, I believe it most likely the proceeds from the two bonds would have 
both been switched to that bond until the maturity date of 5 July 2021.
I therefore direct Shawbrook to calculate the maturity value Mr and Mrs M would have 
received for the funds placed into the two 18-month bonds if they had instead been 
transferred into the existing bond. For the purposes of the calculation, Shawbrook should 
assume that the transfer would have been completed within seven days from the respective 
maturity dates of the existing bonds in July 2020, as this seems to be the timescale for 
transfers in the correspondence it has supplied.  
It should then compare this value to the return the same proceeds have made to 5 July 2021 
in the lower interest rate 18-month bonds, and pay the difference to Mr and Mrs M. 
I recognise that the 18-month bonds (if still held) have yet to mature, but this does not alter 
my findings that I believe Mr and Mrs M would have placed their proceeds into the existing 
bond if they had been reminded by Shawbrook of their option to do so. They should 
therefore be compensated for that loss.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must pay Mr and Mrs M the redress Ive 
set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman