DRN-3572399
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) didnt 
uphold their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In March 2006 Mr and Mrs M purchased a timeshare membership from a timeshare 
provider, Business D. The timeshare cost £9,619 and they took out a loan with GE Money 
to pay the full purchase price.
 
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs M approached GE Money via their representative to raise a claim 
under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA for a refund of what they paid for the 
timeshare membership  because they felt it had been mis-sold to them and GE Money 
provided the finance for them to purchase it.
In summary, Mr and Mrs M said they were subjected to a lengthy and high pressured sales 
pitch, during which they were told a number of points that turned out to be untrue. They 
said they were assured of rational and manageable maintenance fees and charges, they 
were told availability would meet their needs and requirements, and that accommodation 
and facilities would be to an exceptional standard. They said they were also told the resort 
was for members only, and they werent given important information about the timeshare. 
Overall, Mr and Mrs Ms representative said Business D misrepresented the contract by 
providing false and untrue statements of fact to induce Mr and Mrs M into the contract to 
their detriment.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative said they didnt receive a response from GE Money to their 
claim, so they raised a complaint in June 2019  which they then brought to our service. 
GE Money told us that they had been unable to find any trace of Mr and Mrs Ms account 
on their system, despite multiple searches. They said they werent provided with any 
evidence of an account and as such they didnt issue a final response letter. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In summary, he thought 
Mr and Mrs M raised their section 75 claim too late, as they contacted GE Money outside 
of the six year time limit prescribed by the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). He also thought it 
was most likely that Mr and Mrs Ms loan account was closed more than six years ago, 
given GE Money didnt have any records of it, so he thought they raised their section 140A 
claim outside of the relevant time limits too. And he didnt think there were any other 
provisions under the LA that would assist them or otherwise extend the time limits. So, he 
didnt uphold the complaint.  
In response, Mr and Mrs Ms representative said they wanted the case referred to an 
ombudsman, but they didnt provide any further comments to explain why they think the 
claims were raised in time. 
The investigator provided GE Money with a copy of a loan application and a welcome letter 
from GE Money to Mr and Mrs M dated 30 March 2006, which confirmed the details of the 
loan they took out with them. But GE Money still werent able to locate the account. 
However, they said that as the account was identified as untraceable in 2019, they can 
confirm that it was closed at least six years before that. 
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance 
and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my 
decision. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs M, if I dont address every point thats been 
raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats 
been said and sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
The key issue I need to decide is whether GE Money acted fairly and reasonably in 
response to Mr and Mrs Ms claims under the CCA. In this case, GE Money said they 
werent able to issue a final response letter because they werent provided with any 
evidence of an account  which is something Mr and Mrs Ms representative should have 
provided to them. However, I dont have any evidence to show GE Money responded to 
their letter of claim at all - even to tell Mr and Mrs M that they couldnt trace the account, 
which I think they should have done. So, I cant say they responded fairly to Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim.
Overall, in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in this case and decide whether 
Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of anything GE Money did or didnt do, I need to 
consider whether Mr and Mrs Ms claims were likely to succeed, if GE Money had 
properly considered them. 
Our investigator concluded that Mr and Mrs Ms claims were raised out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). If they were, this means that even if GE Money had been able 
to properly investigate their claims, GE Money would have had a defence to answering 
them under the LA. And, if that is the case, I wouldnt ask GE Money to do anything 
further in response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because they wouldnt be in a different 
position now - even if GE Money had responded to them. I have therefore gone on to 
consider whether Mr and Mrs Ms claims were brought in time under the LA. Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs M said that Business D misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of 
the timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under section 75 of the 
CCA. But if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I 
should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs M may 
have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In 
this decision Im considering whether GE Money acted fairly and reasonably in response 
to Mr and Mrs Ms claims. And, if they didnt, whether Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a 
result. 
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by section 2 of the LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within section 9 of the LA. Under both of 
those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
In this case, Mr and Mrs M brought a like claim against GE Money under section 75 of the 
CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by section 9 of the LA. 
Again, it means Mr and Mrs M had six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued to bring a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ms case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
March 2006. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business D. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, 
as they also took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 30 March 2006, so Mr and 
Mrs M had six years from then to bring a claim (so they needed to make their claim by 30 
March 2012). But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their claim until April 2019, 
which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. This means that even if GE Money 
had considered Mr and Mrs Ms claim, its unlikely it would have succeeded because I 
think they brought the claim out of time.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the 
limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs M would have to bring an action within six 
years of their loan account being settled or closed. GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ms loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. Im not 
surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. GE 
Money said that their records do not go back for more than six years, so when an account is 
untraceable, this means it has been closed for at least that length of time. They said that as 
Mr and Mrs Ms account was untraceable at the time of claim in 2019, the account would 
have been settled more than six years prior to that at the latest. 
Based on the available evidence, I therefore agree with our investigator that it is most likely 
that Mr and Mrs Ms loan account was closed more than six years prior to them contacting 
GE Money to raise their claim  which wasnt disputed by Mr and Mrs Ms representative. 
This means I think its most likely that they also brought their section 140A claim too late.  
GE Money didnt respond to the section 140A claim either and I think they should have 
done, so I cant say they acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set 
out above, I dont think GE Money would have upheld the claim if they had properly 
considered it because it was made out of time. So, I dont think GE Money needs to do 
anything further.
Overall, its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and Mrs M 
may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs M might have against GE 
Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to 
take this into account in these circumstances. This means Im not persuaded GE Money 
would have upheld Mr and Mrs Ms claims if it had properly considered them, because 
they were made out of time. So, I wont be asking GE Money to do anything further in 
response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against GE 
Money Consumer Lending Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman