DRN-2839859
The complaint
Mrs L, representing the estate of Mr Y, complains that the late Mr Y was given unsuitable 
investment and inheritance tax planning advice from Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr Y had several meetings with Lloyds in 2013 about his investments  he wanted to 
address the potential inheritance tax (IHT) his family would have to pay in the event of his 
death. Lloyds recommended that Mr Y establish a discretionary trust and invest £325,000 
using Lloyds Managed Trust Service. Mr Y accepted the recommendation.
Sadly Mr Y passed away in 2018. As this was less than seven years after hed gifted the 
funds to the trust, a substantial inheritance tax liability was incurred by the estate.
Mrs L, on behalf of the estate and the trustees, complained to Lloyds in 2019 about the 
advice provided to the late Mr Y. She said that Mr Y shouldve been advised to invest in 
products that qualified for Business Property Relief (BPR), as these products wouldve been 
suitable for him. If Mr Y had been advised to invest in this, Mrs L said the IHT wouldve been 
largely avoided. Mrs L also thought that Lloyds ought to have impressed on Mr Y the 
importance of taking life assurance to mitigate any IHT in the event he did not survive seven 
years. She also said Mr Y was vulnerable at the time of the advice.
Lloyds said it had treated Mr Y as a vulnerable consumer and had asked him at the time 
whether he wanted a family member or friend present at the meeting. However, Mr Y was 
happy to go ahead on his own. It also said that the arrangement it recommended was 
suitable for the trusts risk appetite, which Mr Y agreed was balanced. Lloyds said it didnt 
sell investments that qualified for BPR and in any event, these would not have been suitable 
for the trust. It added that it had recommended Mr Y take life assurance to cover the IHT 
liability. However Mr Y said he didnt want to take any out, despite being warned that his 
estate would face an IHT liability if he didnt survive for seven years after making the gift to 
the trust. Unhappy with the response, Mrs L referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint for essentially the same reasons given by 
Lloyds. She didnt think the advice was unsuitable overall.
Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. She said that 
Lloyds shouldve explored the alternatives available to Mr Y rather than assume that a trust 
was required. Mrs L maintained that products that qualified for BPR were suitable for Mr Ys 
needs and wouldve met his objectives of reducing the estates IHT liability. She said Lloyds 
had a duty to make Mr Y aware of these products even though it couldnt sell them to him. 
Mrs L believed Lloyds had been acting in its interest rather than Mr Ys. As no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mrs L and the trustees will be 
disappointed with this, but Ill explain why.
At the time the advice was given to Mr Y, Lloyds was required to carry out its business in line 
with the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). COBS 9.2 required Lloyds to take reasonable 
steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr Y. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R 
said Lloyds had to obtain enough information from Mr Y to ensure its recommendation met 
his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks consistent with these 
objectives and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction.
Mrs L says that Mr Y was an experienced investor, who had taken significant risks with his 
investments in the past. She says that Lloyds had assessed Mr Ys investment approach as 
progressive. In the financial plan provided to Mr Y on 5 June 2013, it described the 
investments in this category as follows:
These investments are expected to have a relatively significant risk of loss to capital value 
but with the potential of relatively more capital growth over the medium to long term. 
Typically, they will fluctuate in capital value.
Mrs L says investments that would qualify for BPR would align with this investment approach 
and so wouldve been suitable for Mr Y and his objectives. Mrs L rejects Lloyds view that 
such investments were unsuitable for the trust, because she does not believe establishing a 
trust was the only way to meet Mr Ys objectives.
I think its first important to say that when considering this complaint, it isnt my role to 
determine what would have been the best or most suitable advice for Mr Y. Its clear that 
there will be many different ways of achieving a customers objectives and with hindsight, 
some strategies will appear less beneficial. However, the rules Ive set out above simply say 
that the advice must be suitable for Mr Y in order to meet his objectives. So, that is my 
starting point here.
I accept that Mr Y was an experienced investor, he had a large investment portfolio and its 
clear that he had taken high risks with the majority of these investments. The financial plan 
provided to Mr Y listed 26 separate investments which had a transfer/encashment value of 
almost £450,000  most were invested in a high risk manner. So, it is evident that Mr Ys 
attitude to risk in respect of his own investments was high. However, Mr Ys objective when 
meeting with Lloyds in 2013 was to address a potentially large IHT problem. The financial 
plan records that Mr Y wanted to mitigate the IHT liability by gifting money outside of his 
estate via the use of a trust. And despite his own higher attitude to risk, Mr Y wanted to 
reduce the level of risk with the funds to be invested via the trust because it was being 
invested for the benefit of others.
Mrs L says that Mr Y only agreed to a lower level of risk because the trust was suggested to 
him. However, I believe Mr Y wouldve most likely taken the same approach even if Lloyds 
hadnt recommended using a trust to achieve his objectives. I say this because Mr Y wasnt 
looking to invest his money for his own personal gain. It was noted that he would be 
retaining around £125,000 of his investment portfolio, which he believed would be sufficient 
to meet his own needs, which included providing for his care at home if required. Instead, he wanted to set up an investment arrangement over a horizon of 10-20 years for the benefit of 
his children and grandchildren. So, it is understandable that he didnt want to take the same 
speculative level of risk with these funds. It is clear that he wanted the potential for growth, 
but I dont think he wanted to take a high risk of losing the funds and providing less of a 
legacy for his family. 
Ultimately, Mr Y agreed that he wanted to take less risk with these funds and so I think a 
balanced investment strategy was suitable for his needs. I dont think it is reasonable to say 
that Mr Y shouldve instead been advised to invest in assets that qualified for BRP. 
Investments of this nature, such as shares in unlisted companies, carried a significantly 
higher risk than the recorded level of risk Mr Y was prepared to take with these funds. So, 
I dont think the advice to invest via a trust, with a balanced investment strategy, was an 
unsuitable recommendation for Mr Y.
As I dont think investments that qualified for BRP were suitable for Mr Ys needs, I dont 
think Lloyds needed to make him aware of them. So, ultimately it doesnt matter whether or 
not Lloyds was permitted to sell this type of investment to him.
I appreciate that Mr Y had already established a trust through his will, which Mrs L says 
couldve instead been varied in line with Mr Ys wishes. But I dont think Lloyds 
recommendation that Mr Y arrange a discretionary trust was unsuitable. It gave Mr Y the 
flexibility he required and according to the financial plan, Mr Y was quite adamant that he 
didnt want the responsibility of managing the trust assets, nor did he wish for his children to 
have to deal with this. So, I think the recommendation that Mr Y use Lloyds Managed Trust 
Service was suitable for his needs. 
In terms of the sum Lloyds recommended Mr Y invest in the trust, it was reflected in the 
paperwork provided to Mr Y that this would not reduce his entire IHT liability. Based on the 
information Mr Y provided, Lloyds highlighted in the financial plan and its letter dated 
13 June 2013 that his estate faced an IHT bill of around £321,000, and investing £325,000 in 
a discretionary trust (the most he could invest without triggering an immediate IHT charge of 
20%) would create a IHT saving of around £130,000. So, I think it was clear to Mr Y that he 
was not going to be eliminating all of his estates IHT liability.
It is also evident that Lloyds explained that IHT would be due if Mr Y did not survive for 
seven years after making his gift to the trust. This was highlighted in the financial plan and 
the letters sent to him on 7 June 2013 and 13 June 2013. For this reason, Lloyds told Mr Y 
he should consider taking out life assurance to cover his IHT liability. However, the financial 
report records that Mr Y did not wish to take any insurance because he thought it would be 
too expensive and because he didnt generally believe in insurance. The letter of 
7 June 2013 contained the following additional warning:
You should be aware that by not looking at insuring any of your gifts or residual liability that 
your beneficiaries will need to find funds to pay any Inheritance tax bill upon your death. This 
may be very costly and difficult for them to arrange and so I would strongly recommend 
reconsidering the need for insurance for the benefit of your family.
Overall, I think Lloyds did enough to warn Mr Y about the effect of him not surviving seven 
years after making the gift to the trust on the estates IHT liability. I also think it advised him 
in the strongest terms that he should reconsider his need for insurance. So, I dont think 
Lloyds did anything wrong here. Mr Y was free to decline taking out insurance.
I note that Mr Y was considered to be a vulnerable client. Lloyds recognised this and asked 
Mr Y whether he would like a family member or friend to be present at the meetings. 
However, the records show that Mr Y declined this on more than one occasion. The financial plan states that Mr Y did not wish to be influenced by his family, but he had informed his 
family that he was discussing his investments with Lloyds and told Lloyds he was keeping 
them informed of his plans. Its also clear that matters were discussed over a period of 
months, so Mr Y had time to consider the recommendations in full and discuss them with 
family if he so wished. I dont think Lloyds couldve reasonably been expected to refuse to 
deal with Mr Y on his own, having taken the steps it did to ensure he was capable of 
managing his financial affairs and knowing that Mr Ys family was aware of the meetings.
In light of the above, I think Lloyds advice to Mr Y was suitable and I dont think it treated 
him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman