DRN-3870905
The complaint
Mr M complains about a fraud prevention marker recorded on the National Fraud Database 
by Aldermore Bank Plc.
Throughout his complaint, Mr M has been represented by a third party. But for ease, Ill just 
refer to Mr M.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr M approached a broker about finding finance for a car hed seen 
advertised. Mr M says the broker asked him for details about his income and employment to 
continue with the enquiry.
The broker subsequently started an application for a hire purchase agreement with 
Aldermore, for Mr M to get the car. But, before the agreement could go ahead, Mr M 
changed his mind and sent text messages to the broker for him to stop the application. Mr M 
says he did this, because he chose to buy the car outright, rather than use finance.
However, before the broker could stop the application, Aldermore had already decided to 
decline it. They said some of the details Mr M had used as part of the application didnt 
match what they had found after completing their lending checks. So, they applied two fraud 
prevention markers, one for each piece of information they found to be incorrect, to the 
National Fraud Database.
Mr M says he discovered that Aldermore had recorded the markers, when he applied for 
borrowing later in 2021. After complaining to Aldermore, they replied to say the markers 
were added correctly and should remain. Specifically, they said the bank statements and a 
self-assessment tax document Mr M had sent to them, contained false information. 
Aldermore also said they didnt receive any notice from the broker, that Mr M wanted to 
withdraw the application.
Mr M didnt accept Aldermores response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms case and found that Aldermore should have recorded one 
fraud prevention marker instead of two. But overall, the investigator concluded that 
Aldermore had treated Mr M fairly.
Aldermore agreed to remove one of the markers. However, Mr M didnt agree. He said 
Aldermore should have realised the tax document was a draft and that hed sent the wrong 
bank statements to the broker. And because he was able to buy the car outright, it shows 
that he didnt set out to mislead the broker or Aldermore.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mr Ms complaint has now been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fraud prevention marker 
The type of marker that Aldermore asked to be applied relates to the discrepancies they 
found during Mr Ms application. To file such a marker, Aldermore are not required to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show 
that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The National Fraud Databases guidance says: 
 There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
 The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, the relevant finding for me to make is whether I think there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that Mr M provided incorrect information to try and secure borrowing. And in 
relation to this, where Aldermore would be able to escalate their concerns to the National 
Fraud Database.
The messages to the broker
Within the evidence Mr M has sent to us, there are screen shots of a text message 
conversation he had with the broker, on the day where Aldermore declined the application 
for the hire purchase agreement. I can see from the messages that Mr M told the broker he 
wanted to withdraw the application and maybe pick it back up again, later in 2021. The 
broker confirmed hed received Mr Ms message and that hed contact Aldermore 
accordingly.
Aldermores contact records with Mr M show that they told him about their lending decision, 
after Mr Ms conversation with the broker took place. But, the records dont show that the 
broker had contacted Aldermore to follow up Mr Ms wish to withdraw the application, either 
before the lending decision was made or afterwards.
I accept that separate to Aldermores handling of the application, Mr M had spoken to the 
broker about stopping it from going ahead. After reviewing all the evidence though, I dont 
think Aldermore was told to stop the application. So, I think Aldermore treated Mr M fairly, 
when they processed his application for the hire purchase agreement.
The finance application
Both Mr M and Aldermore have provided us with the details used in the finance application. I 
can see that as well as Mr Ms personal details, a bank statement and a self-assessment tax 
document was sent to Aldermore. I think it then follows that Aldermore took these details in 
good faith and performed their own background credit checks. I think this is common 
practice with most lenders.
Aldermore say the figures on Mr Ms tax document dont add up. They also say the bank 
statement didnt match what they had found during their own checks on Mr Ms credit 
worthiness. So, Ive considered those documents to decide if Aldermore had enough 
evidence to take action to place a fraud prevention marker with the National Fraud 
Database.Mr M has provided us with a full copy of the bank statements covering the period shown on 
those used in the lending application with Aldermore. Ive compared Mr Ms bank statements 
to the statements held by Aldermore. Having done so, I can see there are inconsistencies, 
which I think would have caused Aldermore significant concerns. Especially, when dealing 
with the scale of the borrowing Mr M had asked them to consider.
Ive also thought about the reasons why Aldermore didnt accept the information on Mr Ms 
tax document. On balance, I agree that its not clear from this document where Mr Ms 
income can be calculated, or how much tax he had paid. So, on balance I dont find the tax 
document persuasive to either support what Mr M says, or what Aldermore found.
Overall, I think some of the information submitted to Aldermore as part of Mr Ms lending 
application was enough for Aldermore to find they had received false information. I think that 
information was clear at the point Aldermore declined to lend to Mr M, in so far as they could 
confidently pass the information to the National Fraud Database.
Mr Ms explanation
When Mr M discovered that Aldermore had placed the fraud prevention markers on the 
National Fraud Database, he explained what had happened to support why they should be 
removed. Ive carefully considered Mr Ms reasons to decide if Aldermore have treated him 
fairly here.
Mr M says the tax document used as part the application was incomplete and in draft form. 
And that Aldermore should have questioned that, before making use of it. Ive already found 
that Im not persuaded the tax document supports what Mr M says, or was enough by itself 
to raise concerns from Aldermore. However, I dont think its clear that the document was a 
draft. So, I think Aldermore were able to review the tax document as they saw it.
Ive also thought about where Mr M says the broker should not have sent the bank 
statements to Aldermore. While I dont have specific papers relating to Mr Ms dealings with 
the broker, I can see from the application submitted to Aldermore that bank statements were 
needed for the lending proposal to be assessed. So, I think the onus was on Mr M to provide 
the necessary information and it was then for Aldermore to process the details they were 
given.
Therefore, I dont think Aldermore treated Mr M unfairly by using the bank statements they 
were given, to decide if they would agree to the loan.
Mr M has told us that he bought the car he was interested in outright, a few months after the 
application was made with Aldermore. I acknowledge that it seems Mr M had the funds to 
buy the car outright. And that he may not have needed finance to begin with. 
But, I think Aldermores part in the application was to make a lending decision based on the 
information they were given. I dont think the steps they took to record the fraud prevention 
marker, should have been impacted by Mr M buying the car without finance at a later date. 
Im aware that during our investigation, Aldermore have agreed to remove one of the fraud 
markers they recorded. By doing so, I think theyve treated Mr M fairly as only one 
application was made with Mr Ms personal details, provided by the broker. 
I think that one marker was always likely to be recorded by Aldermore. And I recognise the 
impact this has had on Mr M and his day to day life. But, I dont think the presence of the 
second marker has made any deeper impact on any distress and inconvenience Mr M has 
told us about. So, I dont think Aldermore needs to make a payment to him in respect of that.Summary
Having considered everything, I think Aldermore treated Mr M fairly when they processed the 
application for the hire purchase agreement. And I think they were able to rely on the 
information submitted as part of that application. I also think Aldermore had reasonable 
concerns about the information, such that they were able to apply a fraud prevention marker 
with the National Fraud Database. 
Aldermore applied the first marker six days after they declined Mr Ms application. I 
acknowledge where Mr M says they took too long to do that. But, I dont think this timeframe 
was unreasonable, given all the information they had to weigh up.
In all the circumstances, I dont think what Mr M has said about the information used in the 
application, means Aldermore should remove the fraud prevention marker. While I 
understand what Mr M says about how the marker impacts his personal circumstances, 
overall I think Aldermore have treated him fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman