DRN-4131090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment they tried to make.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W drove to a car dealership to purchase a car. Theyd told Santander the day 
before that they intended to buy a car, but when they tried to make the payment, it was 
blocked by Santander. 
Mr and Mrs W spoke with Santander and confirmed that the payment attempt was genuine. 
But when they attempted the payment again it was blocked by Santander for a second time. 
Mr and Mrs W spoke with Santander again at which time they were told that the payment 
request needed to be reviewed and that this could take up to 24 hours. Mr and Mrs W 
werent happy about this as it meant they had to return home without the car. So, they raised 
a complaint.
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs W and explained that the payment had been blocked by 
their fraud prevention systems in line with their terms and conditions, and that these systems 
werent affected or influenced by any given prior notice that a payment might take place. 
However, Santander did confirm that the agent with whom Mr and Mrs W has spoken hadnt 
referred their payment to the correct team after the payment was blocked for the second 
time, and this had meant that Mr and Mrs W hadnt received a call back about the payment 
as quickly as they might have done. Santander apologised to Mr and Mrs W for this and 
made a payment of £80 to them as compensation for any trouble and upset this may have 
caused. Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Santander hadnt acted 
unfairly by blocking the attempted payment as they had. And they also felt that the £80 
compensation that Santander had paid Mr and Mrs W for not referring the payment to the 
correct team was already a fair resolution to that aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Mr 
and Mrs W didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud prevention systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account activity that 
may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a 
possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted that financial 
institutions such as Barclays have an obligation to employ such systems in order to comply 
with banking regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect their 
customers accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs W feel that because they told Santander in advance that the 
payment might be made that it shouldnt have been flagged by Santanders systems. But 
unfortunately, because of the nature of certain types of scams  many of which involve 
victims being convinced to authorise scam payments with their bank  it isnt the case that 
fraud prevention systems should be bypassed by banks in cases where their customer has 
told them in advance that a payment might be taking place. 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were. This means that it unfortunately can be the case that a 
bank will act cautiously with the protection of its account holders money in mind in instances 
where no scam is taking place and where the account holder is genuinely trying to make a 
payment. And I feel that this is whats happened in this instance. 
Furthermore, fraud prevention systems often flag attempted payments as requiring different 
levels of authorisation and approval. It was for this reason that the payment was flagged for 
the second time after Mr and Mrs W called Santander in the first instance  because the 
block required a higher level of approval for it to be removed than the agent with whom Mr 
and Mrs W spoke could provide. And, given the nature and purpose of fraud prevention 
systems, most bank staff arent aware of the factors that influence the systems or whether 
theyll be able to remove a payment block until theyve attempted to do so and the payment 
has been re-attempted and either completed or been declined again.
This isnt to say Mr and Mrs W werent inconvenienced or frustrated by what happened here. 
Indeed, its clear and obvious that there were. But it is to say that I dont feel that Santander 
should fairly be held accountable for the inconvenience and frustration that Mr and Mrs W 
experienced. Rather, I feel this inconvenience and frustration was unfortunately necessary 
and understandable, given the circumstances here, including Santanders obligations as Ive 
described them above and the concerns about the payment that Santander clearly had. 
And, while it wasnt the case that Mr and Mrs W were being scammed here and that the 
payment was a genuine instruction from them, Id ask Mr and Mrs W to consider how theyd 
feel if they had been unknowingly in the process of being scammed and if Santander had 
transferred the significant amount of money that theyd tried to pay to those scammers. And 
Id also ask Mr and Mrs W to consider that while the fact that they werent being scammed 
was clear and obvious to them, this wasnt the case for Santander, who must assess all 
payment requests from a detached position and with their regulatory obligations in mind. 
Ultimately, there isnt a way to guarantee that a payment made as a faster payment  the 
method by which Mr and Mrs W attempted to make the payment  wont be flagged by a 
bank for further checks. And because of this I dont feel that Santander acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by flagging the payment and for not processing the payment when Mr and Mrs 
W tried to make it. And so, I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
In their response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, Santander acknowledged that their agent 
hadnt referred the payment to the correct team, following the second decline. This meant Mr 
and Mrs W didnt receive a call back about the payment as soon as they might have done, 
had it been referred correctly. Santander apologised to Mr and Mrs W for this and made a 
payment of £80 to them as compensation for the trouble and upset this may have caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £80 already paid to Mr and Mrs W does 
feel fair to me. In reaching this position Ive considered that this compensation isnt paid to 
Mr and Mrs W because Santander blocked the payment  which as Ive explained above, I 
dont feel was unfair  but only because it wasnt referred to the correct team which meant 
that Mr and Mrs W didnt receive a call back about the payment as quickly as they could 
have done. And I feel that £80 is a fair compensation amount for that specific error.I appreciate that this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs W were wanting, but it follows from 
all the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to do anything 
more here. I hope that Mr and Mrs W will understand, given what Ive explained above, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman