DRN-3160553
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. paid only part of their claim against their travel insurance policy. 
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs H have an annual multi-trip policy with Mapfre. In 
June 2019, they booked accommodation for a trip with intended departure and return 
dates of 23 May 2020 and 31 May 2020 respectively. 
On 14 March 2020, the government of Mr and Mrs Hs destination country put that 
country into lockdown. On 15 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office  now 
the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Hs intended destination. That advice remained in place at 
the time of Mr and Mrs Hs intended departure. Mr and Mrs H cancelled their flights in 
April 2020. On 17 May 2020, Mr and Mrs H cancelled their accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs H made a claim against their policy in relation to their accommodation costs. 
Mapfre paid 25% of their claim - £486, whereas the total accommodation costs were 
£1,944. Mapfre said it paid the proportion of the accommodation costs which related to 
Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt think that was fair and complained to Mapfre about that. Mapfre 
didnt change its position. It said that it had settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, but it paid them compensation of £50 in relation to 
poor service.  
Mr and Mrs H say that they booked large accommodation as they wanted the option of 
opening the trip up to their children and grandchildren, which would mean a maximum of 
six adults and three children. They say that there was a problem with the website in 
relation to the suitability of the accommodation for children, so they couldnt specify their 
maximum group and entered eight adults so that they could complete the booking. 
Mr and Mrs H say that although their family members were interested in the trip, they 
didnt book flights and that they were the only ones who booked car hire and car parking. 
They say that at both booking and cancellation, they were the only definite travellers.   
Mr and Mrs H say that they had no contribution towards the accommodation costs from 
any family member. 
Mr and Mrs H believe that Mapfre should pay the remaining 75% of their accommodation 
costs as they are the insured parties and the only travellers. Mr H made a hypothetical 
enquiry of Mapfre which confirmed that claims made by their family members wouldnt 
have been successful.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. That was because Mapfre was entitled to rely on a special 
condition in the policy which limited the amount it had to pay to Mr and Mrs Hs 
proportion of the accommodation costs, as only they were insured under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and responded in some detail, which I 
wont set out here. In summary, they said:
The investigator favoured the insurer.
The knock-on effect of the investigators view is that the insured should never 
provide more than two names to an accommodation provider so that they can be 
sure that all of the booking is covered by the policy. 
They did not think that having extra rooms in their accommodation would limit 
their recovery under the policy. 
Mapfres settlement of 25% of their claim ignores what actually happened and is 
based on their intention. 
The actual cost of the accommodation is not important as its within the policy 
limit. 
The investigators view is an implied restriction on what they are allowed to 
choose. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs H said but it didnt change his view.         
Mr and Mrs H asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs H have very strong feelings about this 
matter. They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have 
read and considered. However, I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether Mapfre treated them unfairly 
or unreasonably in paying only part of their claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Section A of the policy sets out 
the circumstances in which Mapfre will cover a claim for cancellation or curtailment. The 
policy also says:  
Special conditions which apply to section A
[]
2. We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out insurance 
cover with InsureandGo. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not insured, 
we only pay your proportion of costs not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the booking.
has the claim been declined unfairly?The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding    
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably in paying a proportion of their claim. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion or condition set out 
in the policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion or condition 
applies.
Its not in dispute that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Hs trip was an insured event 
under the policy. The remaining matter for me to decide is whether its fair and 
reasonably for Mapfre to rely on the condition Ive set out above to limit its 
settlement of Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
Mr and Mrs H booked and paid for the accommodation and I accept that              
Mr and Mrs H invited family members to join them and didnt seek or received a 
contribution towards the accommodation costs. But thats not the end of the matter. 
Mr and Mrs H booked accommodation for eight people. But the benefits of the 
policy only apply to Mr and Mrs H, as they are the only people insured under the 
policy. Mr and Mrs Hs family members who they hoped might join them on the trip 
are not insured under this policy.
The policy contains a condition which says that Mapfre will only consider unused 
expenses of a person who is insured under the policy and gives an example  if 
you are travelling with someone who is not insured, we only pay your proportion of 
costs, not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the booking. 
Mapfre specifically set out that regardless of who paid for the booking, only the 
insureds portion can be claimed. In this case, that means that Mapfre were obliged 
to pay only 25% of the unrecovered accommodation costs.
In this decision, Im looking at whether Mapfre treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and 
reasonably  Im not looking at a hypothetical claim made by their intended guests 
as they are not insured under this policy. 
I dont agree that Mapfres settlement of their claim is based on Mr and Mrs Hs 
intention, rather than what actually happened. I think that Mapfre based the 
settlement on the information from the accommodation booking and the terms of 
the policy, which its entitled to do. 
The determining factor here isnt whether Mr and Mrs Hs claim comes withing the 
policy limits. I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in having regard to the special 
condition Ive set out above.  
Mapfres settlement of Mr and Mrs Hs claim in accordance with the policy terms 
doesnt restrict what type or size of accommodation Mr and Mrs H can choose. The 
policy limits what Mapfre is obliged to pay in that it will only pay Mr and Mrs Hs 
unused expenses.I think that the condition on which Mapfre seeks to rely is clear and that its entitled 
to rely on it. So, I dont think that Mapfre treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly when it 
settled their claim on payment of their proportion of the accommodation costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman