DRN-2501549
The complaint
Miss N complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) returned her car to her unroadworthy 
following repairs carried out by its authorised repairer.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. The facts are not in dispute, so 
Ill only set out the key facts here and focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Miss N was involved in a car accident in September 2020. UKI accepted the 
insurance claim and arranged repairs. The car was returned to Miss N on 6 October 
2020. She noted a problem with the steering and took it to a garage to be reviewed. 
She was told the car was unsafe to drive. 
She contacted the repairing garage who agreed to review the car but it wasnt sure 
when that could be done as it didnt have a courtesy car.
Miss N contacted UKI on 7 October who arranged a courtesy car. However, the car 
had someone elses belongings in it, was dirty, didnt have a spare wheel and 
couldnt fit in a child seat. 
The repairing garage returned the car to Miss N on 8 October, after it didnt find any 
problems with the steering. It also thought any issue might relate to the car previously 
being a category D write off and Miss N reports she was accused of fraud by the 
garage. Miss N took the car to another garage who confirmed there was an issue.  
UKI explained the allegation of fraud hadnt come from it. And on 9 October UKI 
agreed there did appear to be an issue with the steering and its engineer agreed for 
a repair to be carried out at Miss Ns choice of garage. A hire car was arranged for 
the duration of the repair and Miss Ns car was returned to her on 28 October 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think £150 compensation offered by UKI was fair and asked 
for that to be increased to £250.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that £150 
compensation isnt reflective of the impact of what went wrong, for these reasons:
Miss Ns car was returned to her not once, but twice, in an unsafe condition. She had 
a right to expect the car to be roadworthy following the initial repairs. Miss N was put 
to a lot of worry as she had her very young child in the car when she first drove it 
following repairs. And she was put to the inconvenience of having the car inspected 
to establish there was an issue. 
Although the repairing garage inspected her car, it didnt find anything wrong. But 
instead of clarifying this further with the garage that had found an issue (they were 
part of the same group) it simply returned the car to Miss N. I think it could and 
should have done more to get to the bottom of this before returning the car. By 
returning the car when it did, Miss N was put to the trouble of having to arrange 
another inspection, which also concluded there was an issue with the steering. 
To compound this further, Miss N reports she was accused of fraud. I accept that UKI 
quickly put that right, explaining that hadnt been said by it or its engineer. But the 
repairing garage was its agent in this matter as its authorised repairer. This must 
have been particularly upsetting for Miss N when all she was trying to do was ensure 
her car was roadworthy. 
Whilst it might not always be possible to provide a large courtesy car, steps should 
have been taken to ensure the car provided met Miss Ns needs to fit a child car seat; 
particularly as she needed transport for appointments. And I dont find it reasonable 
the courtesy car she was initially provided with was dirty and contained someone 
elses belongings. At the very least its reasonable to expect a courtesy car to be 
clean. 
It was only after Miss N had had her car inspected by two separate garages, that 
UKIs engineer agreed a further repair needed to be carried out. Im pleased to see it 
agreed for a garage of Miss Ns choice to carry out repairs, and that it arranged a hire 
car for the duration of the repair. 
Putting things right
Overall, Im not persuaded £150 is reflective of the distress and inconvenience Miss N was 
caused at finding out her car was not safe, particularly when she had been driving her young 
child in it. And although UKI agreed relatively quickly the car needed further repair, that was 
only after several garage inspections, two of which were arranged by Miss N.  Miss N was 
put to a lot of trouble for it to be accepted that her car hadnt been returned to her in an 
acceptable condition. In all the circumstances, I find £250 to be more reflective of the impact 
UKIs unsatisfactory repair had.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss 
N a total of £250  to include £150 already offered.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept or reject my decision before 12 
March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman