DRN-2413023
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has unfairly increased 
the interest rate on his credit card account and has mis-calculated the interest amount.
What happened
Mr A says he complained to Barclaycard that it increased the account interest rate without 
telling him and that its interest rate calculations were incorrect. He says Barclaycard has 
caused him stress and would like it to waive the debt he owes it due to its actions. Mr A says 
he has produced a spreadsheet which provides evidence Barclaycards interest calculations 
are wrong going back over 10 years.
Barclaycard says it offered to freeze interest for between three and five months, but Mr A 
declined that offer. It says it has acted in line with the account terms and conditions by 
linking the account interest rates to the Bank of England base rate and the interest rate is 
clearly displayed on the account statements.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account interest rate had decreased since 2017 and was calculated in line with 
the account terms and conditions. The investigator thought Barclaycard had acted positively 
and sympathetically by offering to help Mr A.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and maintains the interest calculation is wrong and would like 
£53,000 compensation.
The investigator looked at the complaint again and explained we couldnt look at events 
before 2014 as these had been brought too late and explained why he thought Mr As 
interest calculations were wrong.
Mr A says he is not interested in what took place after 2014 and we should be able to look at 
this part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant consider all of the complaints that are brought to us and must operate under a 
series of rules called DISP. One of those rules say we cant generally consider a complaint 
brought to us more than six years after the events complained about or three years after a 
complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known they had cause to complain.
There is no dispute here that Mr As main part of the complaint took place before 2014 as he 
has told us that and has told us that he is not interested in what took place between 2014 
and 2020. So, Im satisfied that under the first part of our rules we cant consider matters 
before 2014 as these took place more than six years before Mr A brought his complaint to us 
on 3 September 2020.
I have looked carefully at Mr As complaint to decide if the second part of the rule provides a 
longer period for bringing the complaint. Mr As complaint is the interest rate and amount as 
charged by Barclaycard were incorrect. Im satisfied Mr A would have received regular 
account statements which would have included the interest rate and the amount. So, I think 
Mr A knew or ought reasonably to have known at the time he was receiving those 
statements that he had cause to complain. And so it follows I dont find that the second part 
of our rules provide Mr A with a longer time period to have brought the complaint about 
events that took place before 2014.
I can consider a complaint outside of the time limits if I consider there were exceptional 
reasons why a complaint couldnt be brought in time. Mr A hasnt told me about any such 
reasons, and I dont think there are such reasons here.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard has explained to Mr A that its interest rate is calculated in line 
with the base rate set by the Bank of England. I can see that is in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions. I make clear that we are not an auditing service and so its not our role 
to re-calculate and check the interest Mr A has been charged over the last six years. And I 
have not seen any evidence that Barclaycards interest calculation is incorrect and can see 
Mr A accepts his calculations may be wrong.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted in such a way here by agreeing to 
freeze interest and by providing details of its specialist debt team as well as other debt help 
organisations. No doubt Mr A will consider speaking to Barclaycards specialist team if he is 
still in financial difficulties.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard hasnt misled Mr A about the interest rate or what it 
could do to help him. I have explained the reasons why I cant look at events more than six 
years ago and have not seen any evidence that would justify the compensation Mr A would 
like. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied this brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My decision is that we cant consider this complaint about events before 2014 and my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about events after 2014.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman