DRN-3795463
The complaint
Miss S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (NewDay) irresponsibly gave her 
a credit card account and a credit limit increase that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In February 2017, Miss S applied for a credit card account with NewDay. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £300. The credit limit was increased in July 2017 to £1,200.  
In 2022, Miss S complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ss complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay 
has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to determine 
the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. And they had thought 
for how Miss S was managing her account in deciding the increase to the credit limit. Its 
possible that NewDay failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss S with credit. 
But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the 
initial credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss S told NewDay at the point of lending that she was employed and 
her income was regular and not modest. The initial credit limit was modest and the 
repayments on it would have been modest as well. The credit increase was not an 
excessive or unreasonable amount given the income and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit were not immodest. 
Ive also noted that at the point of the initial lending Miss Ss credit history appeared to be 
in good order; no defaults or CCJs etc and I have seen no details of arrears or adverse 
notes. So, there was nothing in that credit picture that would, I think, have put NewDay off 
lending the reasonably modest amount it did, for a credit card, in 2017. 
And by July 2017, NewDay had almost half a years history to note Miss Ss management 
of the credit card account. I note that all the payments up to the time of the credit limit 
increase in 2017 were made on time and in full. And some payments were in excess of the 
minimum payment required. There was one overlimit fee but that was resolved that 
following month. So, there was nothing in the credit picture in general, or in the 
management of the credit card itself, that would, I think, have put NewDay off providing 
the credit limit increase it provided in July 2017. 
And reviewing Miss Ss bank statements from the time, I have noted that the account 
remained largely balanced between credits and debits and was operated largely in credit. 
Again, I do not think these statements would have put NewDay off supplying the credit it 
did had they known about them at the time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Miss S was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss S was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, in itself, because she has put time 
and energy into her complaint. I want Miss S to know that we consider all cases on their 
own particular merits and I want Miss S to know that I considered all the submissions made 
in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman