DRN-2888629
The complaint
Ms M complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited didnt defer repayments on her loan 
accounts.
What happened
Ms M had three student loans. She took out the first loan in 1994 and then a further loan in 
each of the two subsequent years. She says she was entitled to defer repayments on the 
loans because her income was below the threshold set out in the loan agreements.
Ms M says she first experienced difficulties in 2015 which was shortly after the loans were 
taken over by Erudio. She says that Erudio failed to send out the deferment forms to her at 
the address she was living at. She says she was earning below the threshold set out in the 
agreement, so she was entitled to defer repayments. But she says that Erudio has placed 
her account in the hands of debt collection agencies. She says she has experienced a lot 
of stress because of whats happened.
She complained to Erudio. It said it had taken over the administration of the loans in March 
2014. It said Ms Ms loan had been in deferment until October 2014. It said it had issued a 
deferment form to her after it took over the loans and shed returned this in August 2014, 
but it was incomplete. It said it had returned the form to her and thered been subsequent 
emails and telephone conversations with Ms M where shed questioned Erudios requests 
for security information. But it said she hadnt returned the completed form.
Erudio said Ms M hadnt made any payments to the loans and it had defaulted the loans in 
May 2016. It had sent a notice of default to her at the address where she was currently 
living but she hadnt responded. Erudio said that just because her earnings were below the 
threshold, that didnt mean she was guaranteed a deferment. So, it said she would still 
have needed to apply for the deferment. But, she hadnt returned the form.
Erudio acknowledged that its service hadnt been as good as it should have been. It had 
sent some letters to an incorrect address in October 2016 and it hadnt returned a call to 
her after it had agreed to. It offered to pay her £150 by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed experienced. It also said there was nothing on its file 
about any health issues she had. But, if she provided further details, it would consider this 
further.
Ms M wasnt satisfied. She complained to our service. Our investigator looked into her 
complaint. She thought Ms M had notified Erudio that she was earning below the 
threshold. And shed offered to provide further evidence to support this, as soon as it 
became available. She didnt think Erudio had acted reasonably when it had requested 
repayments before Ms M had the opportunity to provide the additional information.
Our investigator also noted that Erudio didnt send any further correspondence to Ms M in 
the period after December 2014 until June 2016. So, she thought it was reasonable for Ms 
M to have concluded that her application to defer had been successful. She also thought it 
wasnt fair or reasonable for Erudio to have defaulted the account when it knew on the 
balance of probabilities that Ms M was eligible to defer.
So, she said Erudio should reconstruct the account as if the deferral in 2014 had been 
successful and then consider whether deferral should also have been offered in 
subsequent years. Any default or negative marker in Ms Ms credit file should be 
removed. She didnt think Erudio should have to pay Ms M any further compensation, 
other than the £150 it had already offered.
Erudio didnt agree. It said Ms Ms bank had recalled a direct debit Erudio requested in 
December 2014. It said this meant she knew that the deferral hadnt been granted. It said 
Ms M hadnt co-operated with its attempts to get additional information to support her 
application for deferral. Erudio had sent letters to Ms M in 2016 including a notice of 
default and other important letters at that time. She hadnt responded to those letters. In 
these circumstances it said it had acted appropriately, in line with the terms and 
conditions and the relevant regulations, when it had defaulted the account.
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M provided information to our service which includes details about her income 
during the period since 2014. Having looked at this information, I can see that it 
appears to support her argument that her income fell below the threshold that 
wouldve applied to her deferment application in 2014. But, that doesnt, on its own, 
guarantee that loan repayments would be deferred. I say this because of what the 
terms of the loan agreement were.
The loan agreement included the following provision:
The applicable regulations provide for (a) deferment of 
repayments (from a date and for a period determined by us under 
the applicable regulations) if you satisfy us that your gross 
income (ignoring certain disability-related benefits) for a month 
does not exceed a sum prescribed by the applicable regulations 
and that your gross average monthly income during the three 
succeeding months will not, or is unlikely to, exceed that sum - 
details of these arrangements being available from us after you 
cease to attend your course and (b) (at our discretion) later 
commencement or deferment of repayments, or an increased 
number of payments of lesser amount, if you receive certain 
types of disability-related benefits. In such cases we may vary 
the amounts of monthly repayments and/ or the dates on which 
those amounts are repayable, and will notify such variations to 
you.
This makes clear that there was a right to defer repayments, but it was 
dependent on satisfying the lender about certain matters including gross 
average monthly income in the three succeeding months.So, I think Erudio was entitled to ask Ms M to provide information to it about this 
matter. It sent her a deferment application form in August 2014. She filled this in. 
Ive looked at the form Ms M completed. Sections 4 - 7 asked her to provide 
information about her income from employment, savings, benefits and other 
sources. She mentioned temporary employment in Section 4  including details of 
her employer. She indicated she had no other income.
Section 9 of the form required her to certify and warrant her total gross monthly 
income from sections 4 to 7 of the form. Ms M didnt do this. Instead she inserted 
additional wording to say that the information about her income wasnt available yet 
as her contract was in the process of being finalised.
The declaration at the end of the form included the following wording:
I understand that Erudio Student Loans will rely on the certificate 
and on the information provided in this form and accompanying 
evidence to support it in considering my application to defer 
repayments.
The form was dated 11 October 2014.
Having considered the information on the form, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Erudio to decide not to immediately agree to defer the loan repayments until it 
received additional information to support the application.
The previous loan deferment had ended on 19 October 2014. So, payment 
wouldve been required in November 2014 unless the deferment application was 
successful. No payment was made, and a letter was sent to Ms M to inform her 
about the arrears.
Ms M appears to have contacted Erudio. It says it needed her to answer certain 
security questions before it could respond. She wasnt willing to do that because 
she says she was concerned about how safe it would be to provide this sort of 
information over email. Ms M subsequently told Erudio the reason for this was 
because her computer security had been compromised at that time. So, I can 
understand why she was reluctant to answer the security questions.
There is a note on Erudios files stating that it needed further information to process 
the deferment application. Theres also a note about Ms Ms reluctance to answer 
security questions. But, it doesnt appear Ms M was informed about Erudios 
requirements for further information to be sent to it to support her deferment 
application. No formal correspondence was sent to Ms M about the outcome of her 
deferral application.
A further payment was missed in December 2014 and another letter was sent to
Ms M. She again contacted Erudio but again wasnt willing to answer the security 
questions. Ms M says she didnt hear anything further after this date.
Ms M says she contacted Erudio about making an annual deferment application 
in 2015. Erudio has no record of this and Ive not been provided with any 
evidence to support what Ms M has said.
At this stage (December 2014), in light of what happened, I wouldve expected 
Erudio to have sent Ms M a letter to explain what it needed her to provide to support her deferment application. And, I wouldve expected it to clearly inform 
her that her deferment application was unsuccessful in the meantime. So, I 
understand why Ms M says she thought her deferment application had been 
successful and why she didnt make any payments. Ill comment further about this 
below.
It is the case that Erudio didnt send any further letters to Ms M until December 
2015  almost a year later. Further letters were sent in May 2016 to confirm that 
the account was in arrears and a formal default notice was sent later that same 
month.
I can see Erudio did try to contact Ms M in April and May 2016  but this wasnt 
successful. It appears that Erudio didnt have an up to date telephone number for 
Ms M.
As mentioned above, after December 2014, the next correspondence to Ms M was 
dated December 2015. There was then a further gap until May 2016 when arrears 
letters were sent and very soon after that a notice of default was issued. So, theres 
no evidence to indicate that Erudio provided regular updates to Ms M to inform her 
about the arrears. Theres also nothing to indicate that Erudio tried to find out 
anything further about Ms Ms circumstances. It didnt follow up on her 2014 
deferment application.
Erudio has provided evidence to show that the notice of default was sent to Ms M 
at the correct address. The notice of default is a formal notice. It made clear to Ms 
M the situation regarding the arrears on her loans and the action she needed to 
take to avoid the accounts being defaulted and reported to credit reference 
agencies. Ms M didnt respond to that notice. Further letters were issued on 1 
June 2016, 25 June 2016 and 5 August 2016, to confirm the sum in arrears and to 
terminate the loan agreements. Those letters were also sent to Ms Ms correct 
address. But, she didnt take any action.
It wasnt until the account was passed to debt collection agents that Ms M 
contacted Erudio to explain that she was having financial difficulties. That contact 
was November 2016. Ms M explained that the address the debt collection agents 
had for her was incorrect. Erudio was able to check the address and updated all of 
its systems accordingly. But its confirmed that the correspondence sent in 2016  
the default notice, the notice of sums in arrears and the termination letter- had 
been correctly addressed.
Ive thought about the fact that Ms M didnt respond to any of these formal notices 
until around November 2016 after shed been contacted by debt collection agents 
appointed by Erudio. But, I dont think, despite getting the default notice, Ms M fully 
appreciated the seriousness of the situation until that time. And, although Erudio 
has shown that it sent a notice of default to her, Im not satisfied, taking everything 
into account that sending a formal default notice was enough to fully inform her 
about the outcome of her deferment application and the consequences of not 
having made payments.
In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the limited correspondence she 
received in the period since December 2014. Im also mindful that, having looked at 
the information Ms M provided to us, its likely she wouldve qualified for deferment 
of her loan repayments throughout this period. So, I think she believed, albeit 
mistakenly, that her loan repayments had been deferred and she didnt owe 
anything on the loans.Having considered all of the information provided to me, Im currently not 
persuaded, on balance, that Erudio has acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
I say this for mainly the following reasons:
Erudio could have done more to let Ms M know the outcome of her 
deferment application in 2014. I wouldve expected it to have formally 
written to her to tell her the application was unsuccessful, clearly inform 
her what she needed to provide to support the application and warn her 
about the consequences of not providing that information. It didnt do this.
She tried to contact it but was concerned about the need to answer 
security questions. The fact that shed tried to contact it but was unwilling 
to answer security questions was recorded on Erudios systems  but no 
action was taken to make Ms M aware of what she needed to do. In these 
circumstances, I think the onus was on Erudio to contact her by letter and 
formally set out its decision.
Erudio could have done more itself to try to verify the information she 
provided on her 2014 deferment application  shed provided details of her 
employment. It doesnt appear to have tried to verify the information with the 
employers listed. The deferment application declaration, which Ms M signed, 
gave it the right to make enquiries of this nature when considering the 
application. And, if it had verified the information Ms M provided on the form it 
was likely she wouldve qualified for the deferment. I think its fair and 
reasonable to have expected Erudio to have looked again at everything it had 
on its file  to see if it needed to make further checks of Ms Ms status - 
before taking formal action in May 2016. It didnt do that.
During the call in November 2016 Ms M told Erudio about certain 
undiagnosed health issues she had which affected her daily routine. She said 
shed already notified Erudio about these issues previously.
Erudio has provided a copy of its file which shows that there was a marker on 
Ms Ms file to indicate that her account was under care since 2011. This 
supports what Ms M said during the telephone call. She said shed made 
Erudio aware some time previously about her health issues.
In these circumstances, where a marker such as this was present on her file, 
I wouldve expected Erudio to do more to try to make contact with Ms M, to 
find out about her current circumstances, before defaulting her account.
Erudios contact with Ms M, after December 2014 was very limited. It sent a 
letter in December 2015 and then took formal action in May 2016 after 
sending two further letters at the start of that month.
We expect a business to treat a customer experiencing financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. That wouldve required Erudio to have done 
more than send limited correspondence, with significant periods of no 
correspondence being sent, before taking formal action.
After it defaulted the account, Erudio appointed debt collection agents. It 
provided them with an incorrect address. Its acknowledged its error regarding this. So, it was November 2016 before Ms M spoke to Erudio. 
Ive listened carefully to that call. Ms M explained that she had undiagnosed 
health issues which affected her daily routine and couldve impacted on her 
following up issues with her loans. I can see that there was a marker on 
Ms Ms file to show that her account was marked as under care since 
2011.
During the call Erudio told her on several occasions that her loans had been 
terminated and so deferment wasnt an option. It told her if she wanted to 
raise a dispute about not having been given the option to defer, shed have to 
contact the debt collection agents.
Erudio said it would look into the matter further to see if it could do anything 
for her. But, after doing so, it said any dispute about her option to defer would 
have to be progressed through the debt collection agency. It reiterated that 
deferment was not an option as the account was already terminated.
At this time, November 2016, Erudio brought the account back under its own 
administration. But, it doesnt appear to have spoken to Ms M further about 
her circumstances at that time or investigated what she said about her 
deferment application. Theres also no record that it sent her any further 
correspondence until some two years later  in November 2018. I dont think 
that was fair or reasonable.
What should be done to put things right?
In these circumstances, I think Erudio should put the loans back into the position 
they would have been in at 19 October 2014 when the last deferment ended.
It should then work through each subsequent year by assessing whether Ms M 
qualifies for deferment under the relevant regulations. Ms M should provide it with 
whatever information it reasonably requires to enable it to consider her applications 
for deferral during this period. And, Erudio should remove any adverse markers, 
including any default, it has registered with credit reference agencies in the period 
since October 2014.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Ms M has experienced. 
Erudio offered to pay her M £150 because it sent some letters to an incorrect 
address. Our investigator didnt think it should be asked to increase this amount. 
And having considered the actions Im requiring Erudio to take to restructure the 
loans from October 2014, I dont intend to require it to have to pay her any further 
compensation to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Erudio Student Loans Limited. I intend to require it to take the 
following actions to resolve this complaint:
First
put the loans back in the position they were in at 19 October 2014;
ask Ms M to submit deferment applications for each year since that 
date and determine whether, under the relevant regulations, such 
applications should be successful; andrestructure the loans based on the outcome of the determination of the 
deferment applications for each year since October 2014.
Second
remove any adverse information, including any defaults, it has registered 
at credit reference agencies about Ms Ms accounts with it.
Third
if it has not done so already, pay Ms M £150 for the distress and
    inconvenience she experienced when it sent letters to an
    incorrect address.
Erudio responded to my provisional decision. It said there were a few aspects of the 
provisional decision which it wanted to query before issuing a full response. It raised a 
number of queries which I will summarise below:
1. The provisional decision had stated that no payments were received. Erudio said this 
was incorrect since Ms M did make a payment in December 2014 but recalled it and 
then cancelled her direct debit. It said this was important because only Ms M couldve 
done this. This meant she knew her account was in arrears and her deferment 
application had been unsuccessful.
2. It said it had responded by email to Ms M to tell her that it could not proceed with the 
deferral application until she answered certain data protection questions. It said this 
was a further indication she was aware the deferment application had not been 
processed.
3. Ms M had told our service she made a deferment application in 2015. Erudio said this 
showed she was aware her account was not in deferment.
4. Erudio said that even if the account had been placed in deferment in 2014 it was 
likely it would have terminated in 2015 as no deferment contact or payment was 
received.
I provided responses by way of clarification to the queries Erudio had raised. Erudio made 
no further comment about those clarifications. 
Erudio did raise a further query regarding the complaint. It said the deferment ended on 19 
October 2014, but Ms M hadnt raised her complaint until 11 August 2020. Shed contacted it 
in 2014 and again in 2016. So, Erudio asked whether the complaint was time barred under 
the rules that apply to us. They referenced part of these rules which say that a complaint has 
to be referred to us within six years of the event being complained about, or, if later, three 
years from the date of when a complainant became aware (or ought to have become aware) 
they had cause for complaint.
Our investigator responded to this query. She said that Ms Ms complaint had been received 
by our service on 30 December 2019. The deferral on the loan had ended on 19 October 
2014. So, Ms M had brought her complaint within six years of the event complained of. This 
meant it was within the six year period set out in our Rules and our service was able to 
consider it.
Ms M also responded to my provisional decision. She said shed been caused a great deal 
of hardship as a result of Erudios action. This included being turned down for a loan 
because of the adverse information on her credit file. She thought Erudio should provide a 
statement she could supply to the lender so that it could reprocess the loan application.So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before issuing my provisional decision I had considered all the evidence and arguments 
thatd been made available to me and even though I didnt specifically comment on 
everything, I had taken all of that information into account. 
In response to my provisional decision, Erudio asked for clarifications. Ill comment on each 
of the points it raised:
1. The provisional decision had stated that no payments were received. Erudio said this 
was incorrect since Ms M did make a payment in December 2014 but recalled it and 
then cancelled her direct debit. It said this was important because only Ms M couldve 
done this. This meant she knew her account was in arrears and her deferment 
application had been unsuccessful.
I remain satisfied that no payments were applied to the account in December 2014. 
The direct debit referred to was recalled by Ms M.
The payment in December 2014 was received as a result of a direct debit collection 
arranged by Erudio. It was a condition of the loans that it held Ms Ms bank details 
and it would collect payments by direct debit.
Ms M did recall the direct debit. But I dont think that meant she knew or accepted 
the outcome of the deferment application. She was simply not agreeing that the 
payment should be made.
In my provisional decision, I said Id have expected Erudio to send Ms M a letter 
setting out the outcome of her deferral application. I dont think that she shouldve 
been asked to infer the outcome of that formal application by noting that a direct 
debit collection had been attempted. The fact that the direct debit collection was 
recalled by Ms M doesnt change my view about that. And, when the direct debit 
collection was recalled in December 2014, Erudio didnt send any further 
correspondence to Ms M until December 2015  a year later. It was this failure by 
Erudio to do enough to let Ms M know the outcome of the deferment application and 
the fact that it only sent limited correspondence to her about her arrears after 
December 2014 which was part of the reasoning why I provisionally decided to 
uphold her complaint.
2. Erudio said it had responded by email to Ms M to tell her that it could not proceed 
with the deferral application until she answered certain data protection questions. It 
said this was further indication that she was aware the deferment application had not 
been processed.
Ive looked again at the information Erudio sent to our service. There are two notes 
on Erudios file about this point.
The first is dated 5 December 2014 which says DPA email sent following potential 
contact from C.The second is dated 16 December 2014 which says DPA fail. Query regarding 
why should have to confirm DPA. Advised without confirmation we cant proceed
The references to DPA are references to data protection legislation.
There are no copy emails on the file  so its not clear what the email referred to on 
5 December 2014 said. The note doesnt comment on the deferment application  
nor does it say that the email referred to stated the deferment application was 
unsuccessful.
The note on 16 December 2014 doesnt refer to an email being sent. It does 
suggest Ms M was told that without confirmation of DPA it couldnt proceed. But 
again, its not clear whether that meant it couldnt proceed with the 
call/correspondence by email, or it couldnt proceed with the deferment. 
In any event, my view remains the same. I wouldve expected Erudio to put the 
matter beyond doubt and write to Ms M  in December 2014 or shortly thereafter to 
make clear to her that her application had been unsuccessful. In fact it didnt write 
to her again until December 2015  a year later.
3. Ms M had told our service she made a deferment application in 2015. Erudio said this 
showed she was aware her account was not in deferment.
As I said in my provisional decision, I hadnt seen any evidence to support what Ms 
M said about making a deferral application in 2015. But Erudio says the fact that she 
thinks she may have made such an application supports its view that she was aware 
her account was not in deferment.
It was the case that deferral applications were made once each year. So, I dont 
agree with Erudio when it says that any attempt to make a deferral application shows 
Ms M was aware the account was not in deferment. Whether the account was in 
deferral or not  it wouldve been entirely possible for Ms M to make such an 
application in 2015.
4. Erudio said that even if the account had been placed in deferment in 2014 it was 
likely it would have terminated in 2015 as no deferment contact or payment was 
received.
I dont think it does follow that if the account had been placed in deferment in 2014 
its likely it wouldve terminated in 2015. If the account had been deferred in 2014, it 
wouldnt have been in arrears and thered have been no need for Ms M to make a 
payment or contact Erudio. It is also the case that Erudio wouldve written to Ms M 
in 2015 to see if she wanted to make a further deferral application  thats what had 
happened in previous years. So, I think thats what wouldve happened in 2015 too.
Ive also noted the query about whether the complaint may be time barred. I agree with the 
clarification our investigator sent to Erudio about this point. The complaint has been brought 
to our service within six years of the event complained about. So, it is a complaint that our 
service can investigate.
Ive noted the hardship Ms M says shes experienced as a result of Erudios actions. Im very 
sorry to read about what shes told us. She says she experienced hardship as a result of a 
loan application she made in the summer of 2020. She says that application was turned 
down because of adverse information Erudio had entered on her credit file. In my provisional 
decision I said that I thought Erudio should remove that adverse information. That wont change the decision that was made in the summer of 2020, nor does it mean that any new 
applications will necessarily be successful  as any applications will have to be considered 
on their own merits based on a prospective lenders own criteria. But it may assist Ms M 
should she wish to ask for her loan application to be reconsidered.
Having considered the points raised by Erudio for clarification, and the responses received 
from Ms M, I have not changed my view that, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, this complaint should be upheld. I also remain of the view that the actions I 
indicated Erudio should be required to take to resolve this complaint are fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint about Erudio Student Loans Limited. I 
now require it to take the following actions:
First
put the loans back in the position they were in at 19 October 2014;
ask Ms M to submit deferment applications for each year since that 
date and determine whether, under the relevant regulations, such 
applications should be successful; and
restructure the loans based on the outcome of the determination of the 
deferment applications for each year since October 2014.
Second
remove any adverse information, including any defaults, it has registered 
at credit reference agencies about Ms Ms accounts with it.
Third
if it has not done so already, pay Ms M £150 for the distress and
    inconvenience she experienced when it sent letters to an
    incorrect address.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman