DRN-3248023
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, including that Barclays reported adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
Mr W advised that he needed to update his address and report his Barclays credit card as 
lost and request a replacement. Barclays couldnt action Mr Ws request for a replacement 
card because his account was in arrears. Mr W explained that hed just made a payment via 
the online app. Barclays advised that it may take a short while for that payment to update on 
their system, but once it did Mr W could then request a replacement card.
Two months later, Mr W telephoned Barclays again, and again asked for a replacement 
card. But Mr Ws account had fallen into arrears once again, and so Barclays again werent 
able to send a replacement card out to him. Mr W wasnt happy about this, especially as he 
believed that Barclays should have called him themselves when his earlier payment cleared 
onto their systems to arrange the replacement card with him. So, he raised a complaint.
A Barclays agent called Mr W in response to his complaint and apologised for the trouble 
hed experienced and agreed to make a payment to Mr W of £50 by way of compensation. 
However, the agent confirmed that no replacement card could be issued on the account 
while the account remained in arrears. Mr W agreed to make the arrears payment later that 
evening, and Barclays agent agreed to monitor Mr Ws account for the payment and to send 
out the replacement card when the arrears showed as cleared on Barclays systems.
Mr W didnt receive his replacement card and missed further monthly payments on his credit 
account as a result. Mr W continued to be unhappy, especially as Barclays then reported 
missed payments to his credit file and later defaulted his account for non-payment, and he 
reiterated his complaint to Barclays because of this.
Barclays looked at Mr Ws complaint. They felt that theyd managed the situation fairly and 
so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed the ongoing situation, and so they 
also didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his complaint to this service, Mr W explained that hed contacted Barclays in December 
2020 and January 2021 to advise that hed lost his card and was unable to make payments 
as he didnt have a copy of his account number. Mr W also explained that he contacted 
Barclays again in February 2021 as he still hadnt received a replacement card or anything 
confirming his account number by that time.
Barclays have provided this service with recorded telephone calls dated 12 October and 29 
December 2021, and 25 February 2022. These three calls appear to be the three calls to 
which Mr W refers to in his complaint to this service. 
Having listened to these three calls, its clear that on the first of these calls Mr W does 
declare to Barclays that hed lost his credit card and requests a replacement card. Barclays 
then explain to Mr W that his account is showing as being in arrears and that theyre unable 
to issue a replacement card until the account arrears show as being cleared.
In response, Mr W confirms that hed just made a payment of £134 via the online app in 
order to clear the balance of the credit account in full. This demonstrates that Mr W was able 
to make payments towards the account on the online app at that time, despite not having his 
physical credit card or his account number.
Barclays then explained to Mr W that it may take until the next day for that payment to show 
as cleared on the account, and that when it does Mr W can then contact them again and 
request that a replacement credit card be sent. 
Importantly, the Barclays agent to whom Mr W spoke specifically offered to call Mr W back 
themselves the next day  an offer which Mr W politely declines, stating that hell be happy 
to contact Barclays himself. However, it appears that Mr W didnt subsequently contact 
Barclays when his payment had cleared to request a replacement credit card, and so no 
replacement credit card was sent. 
The next recorded telephone call is dated 29 December 2021. This is over two months after 
the previous call. By this time, Mr Ws account has fallen once again into a state of arrears, 
with the £5 minimum payment that had been due on the account on 17 December having not 
been paid. This meant that Barclays were once again unable to action Mr Ws request for a 
replacement card because his account was again in arrears.  
Its notable on this call that, having been informed of this, Mr W makes reference to the 
same thing having happened the previous month and that no one from Barclays called him 
back as he was promised. But Barclays dont have any record of Mr W contacting them the 
previous month, in November 2020, and its notable that if Mr W had called them in 
November that his account wouldnt have been in arrears at that time, and so no call back 
from Barclays to Mr W would have been required.
As such, it seems more likely than not, on balance, that Mr W was referring to the October 
2020 telephone call, on which he was offered a call back from Barclays, but on which he 
declined that offer. 
The December 2020 call continues with Mr W agreeing to make a payment of £100 towards 
the account, following which he would be transferred to Barclays collections department to 
remove the block on his account preventing the issuing of a replacement credit card. During 
this conversation, Mr W explains that his mobile telephone is running low and asks whether 
the other department will call him back. The agent to whom Mr W speaks with is uncertain 
about this and doesnt commit to such a call back. Mr W then makes the £100 payment, but 
the call is disconnected  presumably because of Mr Ws battery running out  before the 
replacement card can be requested. As a result, no replacement credit card is issued.The third call takes place in February 2021, when a Barclays agent contacts Mr W about his 
complaint. The agent confirms to Mr W that his account is still in arrears to the amount of 
£47. The agent apologises to Mr W for the trouble that hes experienced and agrees to credit 
Mr W with £50 by way of compensation, although the agent confirms that this £50 credit 
wont be considered as having cleared the arrears and that Mr W would still need to make a 
payment to do so. Mr W agrees to make the payment later that day, and the agent agrees to 
monitor Mr Ws account for the payment and issue the replacement credit card when the 
arrears show as having been cleared. However, Mr W didnt then make the payment to clear 
the arrears that he said he would, and so no replacement credit card was issued to him.
The £50 compensation that Barclays agent agrees to credit Mr W here appears to have 
been because Mr W didnt receive a call back as hed requested. This seems reasonable to 
me, for while Mr W did decline the offer of a call back on the October call, he did request one 
on the December call. However, it must be noted that it remained Mr Ws responsibility to 
have made the arrears payment following the December call, regardless of whether he 
received a call back or not. And its difficult not to conclude the Mr W could have made that 
payment himself, for instance via the online app, as hed previously done in October 2020.
Mr W then continued to not make monthly payments towards his account, and his account 
fell progressively further into arrears as a result. Mr W has stated that he didnt make 
payments to his account as he had concerns that his lost card had been found by an 
unknown person who had used it fraudulently, and he felt that the balance on the account 
was increasing as a result of purchases that he hadnt made himself. Mr W has also stated 
that he didnt make payments towards the account because he had outstanding and ongoing 
complaints with Barclays about the status of his account and his continuing non-receipt of a 
replacement debit card. 
However, its notable that on all three telephone calls, including the later call in February 
2021, that Mr W makes no reference to potential fraudulent activity on the account, and 
doesnt question the balance of the account explained to him at those times. Additionally, 
following the telephone call in February 2021 there was no usage of any kind on the 
account, with the balance changing only because of interest, charges, and reimbursements, 
including the credit of £50 compensation referred to previously. 
Furthermore, while Mr W may have had an ongoing complaint with Barclays, this didnt 
absolve Mr W of his responsibly to have made at least monthly minimum payments towards 
the account and to have maintained the account inline with contractual requirements that he 
agreed to when he first opened the account. And Im satisfied that Mr W could have made 
such payments, given that he did make payments to the account during the period that he 
didnt have a physical credit card, as previously explained. 
Because of this, it doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable to me that Barclays would have 
considered Mr Ws account as to have been falling progressively further into arrears and to 
have reported these arrears to the credit reference agencies as they did. And it also doesnt 
seem unfair or unreasonable to me that Barclays, when the arrears on the account reached 
an appropriate level, issued a default notice to Mr W which advised that his account may be 
defaulted if he didnt clear the arrears on his account within a set time, or to have then 
defaulted the account when Mr W didnt subsequently clear the account arrears in the time 
given to him.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in anyway here, and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman