DRN-4311561
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Merlin Financial Services Limited (MFS) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer the value of benefits in a former employers defined benefit (DB) pension 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement.
What happened
Very briefly, Mr M was a deferred member of a former employers DB pension scheme. In 
addition to his main scheme benefits, he had Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) with 
two different providers. In April 2018 he obtained a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) 
and retirement estimates from his former employers DB scheme. The CETV was for 
£180,161 plus non-guaranteed AVC values of £6,235 and £1,935. The benefits offered by 
the DB scheme at age 55, including AVCs, were a full pension of £6,195.93 pa or a tax-free 
cash lump sum of £32,690.42 and a reduced pension of £4,903.56 pa.  
Mr M met with MFS in June 2018. A fact find was completed which recorded Mr Ms 
personal and financial circumstances and his objectives. MFS issued a suitability report on 
20 June 2018 recommending that Mr M transfer the value of his DB scheme benefits. Mr M 
later decided to retain one of his AVC funds but he went ahead with the transfer of his main 
scheme benefits and his other AVC fund. The transfer value paid in September 2018 was 
£240,399.94 plus AVCs of £6,261.90.
Mr M complained, via his representative, in November 2022 about the advice given by MFS. 
MFS didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to us. One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened. She issued a detailed view on 15 July 2023. For the reasons she 
set out she upheld the complaint.  
Under COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1.6G, when advising whether or 
not to transfer out of a DB pension scheme, an adviser should start by assuming a 
transfer wont be suitable unless it can clearly be demonstrated to be in the clients 
best interests. 
The critical yield was 18.1% based on retirement at age 60 which the suitability report 
said was unachievably high. The closest discount rate published for the period 
before October 2017 was 3.9% for four years to retirement. The regulators upper, 
middle and lower projection rates at the time were 8%, 5% and 2% respectively. 
Given his cautious attitude to risk (ATR) and the term to retirement, Mr M was likely 
to receive retirement benefits of materially lower value from the personal pension 
than the DB scheme wouldve provided. In referring to Mr Ms ATR as cautious, the 
investigator said, although the risk profiler hed completed categorised him as 
medium-high risk and a low-medium risk profile had been selected, he had no real 
capacity for loss, so a cautious approach wouldve been more appropriate.
MFS had acknowledged, by transferring, Mr M would receive, over the long term, a 
lower income than that provided by the DB pension. The transfer was recommended 
because of more suitable death benefits and early and flexible access to his funds. 
The DB pension wouldve provided a 50% spouses pension on Mr Ms death. But he 
wasnt married. There was a 25% dependants pension to eligible children under 18 
or 23 if in further education. Mr M had three children aged between 15 and 18. 
Whereas the remaining fund value of the personal pension could be left to Mr Ms 
nominated beneficiaries. 
But the level of death benefits would depend on how much of the fund remained. 
That might not be much or the fund may have been completely depleted if Mr M lived 
a long life, made additional withdrawals or returns were less than expected. There 
was a risk that the transfer value wouldnt last through Mr Ms retirement. That wasnt 
a risk if he retained his DB scheme benefits. Hed expressed some concerns about 
his health and longevity and so the lump sum death benefits wouldve been attractive 
to him. But any health issues hadnt been investigated further. 
The adviser had to make a recommendation that was in Mr Ms best interests. A 
pension is primarily intended to provide an income in retirement, not act as a life 
assurance plan. That was discussed but, based on insuring a sum equivalent to the 
full transfer value. Mr M wanted to take 25% of that immediately. A whole of life or 
term insurance for a lower sum, based on what Mr M wouldve liked to leave to his 
children, wouldve been cheaper and couldve been considered. 
The recommendation was made in part to allow Mr M to access a lump sum so he 
could gift his three children £10,000 each and have an emergency fund. The fact find 
indicated Mr M had surplus income of around £500 pm and credit card debt of 
£1,000. It was unclear if thered been any discussion about how the £500 was spent 
and if there was scope to reduce his credit card debt and provide an emergency fund 
by building up savings. 
Giving up the guarantees associated with the DB pension to provide an emergency 
fund, when there appeared to be alternative means to address that, wasnt in Mr Ms 
best interests. He may well have wanted to give his children cash gifts, but it was 
incumbent on the adviser to make clear the impact that would have on Mr Ms long 
term pension security and whether, if fully informed, it remained a priority for Mr M.  
The DB scheme allowed both early retirement  and Mr M was already at an age 
when he could apply  but also the option of transferring just his AVCs separately, if 
a need to access capital arose. Doing that wouldnt jeopardise his valuable 
guaranteed income. The value of the AVCs wouldnt have been enough to make 
three gifts of £10,000 but that objective wasnt sufficiently explored with Mr M and 
appears to have been simply accepted by the adviser without further discussion.  
The flexibility requirement seemed to just relate to taking the initial lump sum without 
the associated income. It wasnt evidenced why Mr M wouldnt have accepted a 
regular income at the time. He was in receipt of two state benefits, but the 
recommendation didnt set out if or how a pension income would impact those and if 
Mr M would be better or worse off as a result. 
Mr Ms anticipated retirement age was 67. It wasnt evident why hed need to vary his 
income. If the guaranteed income from the DB scheme and his state pension had 
been in excess of £15,000 a year, the surplus couldve been saved or invested. The 
DB scheme also offered a bridging pension up to state retirement age, which would 
then reduce once Mr Ms state pension came into payment. So, if his requirement for 
flexibility related to reducing his income once his state pension became payable, the 
DB scheme offered a means to do that, without giving up the associated guaranteed 
and index linked income for life.
Mr Ms representative had said, at the time of the advice, Mr M was a vulnerable 
client due to his health and personal circumstances. MFS had said the adviser was 
unaware as Mr M hadnt wished to disclose details of his health or why he was in 
receipt of certain benefits. On the basis of the limited information the investigator 
thought it wouldve been reasonable for MFS to have considered whether Mr M was 
vulnerable. But her view didnt turn on that. She didnt think MFS had demonstrated 
that the transfer was clearly in Mr Ms best interests. The advice was unsuitable, 
regardless of whether hed been treated as a vulnerable client or not. The investigator concluded that MFS shouldve advised Mr M against transferring. 
And that Mr M wouldve accepted that advice and retained his DB pension. The 
investigator noted that, following correspondence about one of his AVC funds, Mr M 
was persuaded to retain these within the former employers scheme. That didnt 
indicate hed have insisted on transferring had he been suitably advised overall. 
The investigator set out what MFS needed to do to put things right for Mr M. She 
added that Mr M had started drawing a taxable income from his plan in March 2019, 
having taken all his tax-free cash immediately upon transfer. She said compensation 
should be based on Mr M taking his DB scheme benefits at age 55.
MFS disagreed with the investigators view. MFS main comments were: 
The DB scheme early retirement figures the investigator had quoted (a full scheme 
pension and AVC pension of £8,713 pa or tax-free cash of £43,990 and a reduced 
pension of £6,611 pa) were at age 60, not 55. But Mr M had said he didnt want any 
income. He couldnt just take tax-free cash from his DB scheme benefits  hed have 
had to take income as well which he didnt want. And income wouldve potentially 
impacted on any means tested benefits.
Mr M couldve converted his flexible draw down plan to an annuity at any time. As of 
7 August 2023 he couldve bought an escalating single life annuity, guaranteed for 
five years, based on the transfer value (after tax-free cash and initial charges) of 
£182,639 of £7,629.84 pa with RPI (Retail Price Index) increases. Thats £1,018.68 
pa more than the reduced forecasted DB pension after taking tax-free cash. And the 
annuity would be higher, assuming growth on the transfer value. 
Mr M had completed a risk profile and came out as medium-high risk. After the 
adviser had discussed this with Mr M, it was agreed to reduce to low-medium. 
Despite that the investigator had said she didnt agree. Shed also said Mr M had no 
savings but he had two money purchase AVCs. Shed said he didnt have the means 
to withstand an immediate loss to this source of future income. But he wouldnt be 
suffering an immediate loss as he was only taking the tax-free cash lump sum and 
deferring taking his income until retirement.
MFS starting point when advising on DB transfers has always been to assume that 
transferring would be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated to be in the 
clients best interests. But the death benefits offered by the DB scheme were limited. 
Mr M wasnt married. Some death benefits for his children were offered but these 
were limited. Transferring gave a net initial investment of £182,639. Mr M couldve 
left a third of whatever value was available to each child, either a tax-free lump sum 
or tax-free income payment. Mr M wanted his children to benefit. He had concerns 
about his own life expectancy so this was a legitimate area to look into. 
After shed issued her view the investigator asked how Mr M had spent his tax-free cash and 
other taxable income withdrawals hed made. Mr Ms representative told us that Mr M had 
made a number of charitable and other donations, evidence of some of which was provided. 
Hed also made payments to his children. His bank statements showed hed made a lot of 
cash withdrawals to make cash goodwill payments. 
The investigator responded to MFS. She accepted what MFS had said about the pension 
figures shed quoted as being payable at age 60, not age 55. But that didnt alter her view 
that the advice was unsuitable. She added that shed seen evidence that Mr M had made 
gifts and charitable donations which he wouldnt otherwise have done. This non-essential 
spending was a result of the availability of funds following the transfer and wouldnt have 
occurred, had he been suitably advised to retain his benefits. She said redress should be 
based on Mr Ms DB scheme retirement age of 60.MFS said Mr M had only wanted to access his tax-free cash initially and didnt want any 
income. He should take responsibility for the withdrawals and his spending habits, including 
gifts hed made. He had an adviser in place who shouldve warned him about making too 
many withdrawals and depleting his funds. MFS recommendation was based on Mr M 
wanting tax-free cash and no income. If hed said he wanted income to spend that wouldve 
changed things and MFS almost certainly wouldnt have advised him to transfer. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and COBS. 
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of 
the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of MFS recommendation here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly; 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client; 
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability;  
COBS 19 which specifically relates to a DB pension transfer. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Against that background, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. My reasons are the same as 
those given by the investigator and which Ive set out above.  
COBS 19.1.6G states that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. MFS shouldve only recommended a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
MFS says it always starts from that premise. But the suitability report wasnt written in that 
way. It records, about Mr Ms objectives, that hed obtained a CETV from the DB scheme 
and hed like to transfer to a personal pension with a view to having more suitable death 
benefits, early access and flexibility to take what he liked and when and hed requested 
advice on how best to achieve that objective. And MFS comments in response to the 
investigators view also tend to suggest that MFS onus was on meeting the clients 
requirements if possible. But it wasnt up to MFS to advise Mr M how he could facilitate what 
he thought he wanted to do. MFS overriding responsibility was to give suitable advice. And, 
where a DB pension is concerned, only recommend a transfer if it can be demonstrated to 
be in the clients best interests. 
Im not satisfied that a recommendation that Mr M transfer was in his best interests. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive considered financial viability and the specific factors pointed to 
by MFS  death benefits and flexibility, including Mr Ms wish to access a lump sum.  The transfer wasnt financially viable. The critical yield showed how much Mr Ms pension 
fund would need to grow by each year to provide equivalent benefits to those hed be giving 
up in the DB scheme. Although MFS has pointed out that some of the income figures quoted 
by the investigator in her view were wrong, the critical yield required to match Mr Ms DB 
scheme at 60 (on the basis he took a full pension) was 18.1%. As MFS itself noted, that 
wasnt achievable which meant that, over the longer term, Mr M would receive a lower 
income than the DB scheme wouldve provided. 
I note what MFS has said about Mr Ms assessed ATR (which was discussed with him and a 
lower risk approach agreed) and why MFS considers it should be entitled to rely on that. But 
I agree with what the investigator said about why, considering Mr Ms overall financial 
position and that he didnt have any real capacity for loss, a cautious approach shouldve 
prevailed. Capacity for loss needs to be considered in conjunction with ATR. Mr M had no 
savings  I dont regard his two money purchase AVCs as such  and, as far as Im aware, 
no other pension provision aside from his state entitlement. But, in any event, even taking a 
low-medium investment approach, Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme wouldve provided. 
MFS recognised that, based on financial viability alone, a transfer couldnt be recommended. 
I agree that financial viability isnt the only consideration. So Ive gone on to consider the 
other factors MFS has pointed to as to why the recommendation to transfer was suitable. 
Death benefits seemed to be an important driver for Mr M. Its natural for him to have wanted 
to ensure that his children would be provided for when he died. So the lump sum death 
benefits potentially available from a personal pension wouldve been attractive to him. 
Especially as he wasnt married and so the spouses pension offered by the DB scheme 
wouldnt be required. I also accept what MFS has said about the limited value of any 
dependants pension(s), given the ages of Mr Ms children. 
In addition, Mr M had some health issues and had expressed longevity concerns. In advising 
on a transfer out of a DB scheme, any health issues are an important consideration, 
especially if life expectancy might be impacted. But here it doesnt seem Mr Ms state of 
health was further explored. Clients are sometimes understandably reluctant to discuss such 
matters. But they may be persuaded if its explained why such information is relevant and 
could impact on the advice thats given. So Id expect to see MFS made that point to Mr M. 
But it seems MFS may not have considered that necessary and took the view that the death 
benefits and other factors justified the recommendation anyway. But Id have expected MFS 
to have at least tried to obtain further information (and it may have bolstered the case for 
transferring). Mr M may also have been entitled to take his benefits from the DB scheme 
early on ill health grounds which is another option Id expect to see was considered.  
As Ive said I can understand why a lump sum death benefit may have appeared attractive to 
Mr M. But the main purpose of retirement savings is to provide an income in retirement. I 
dont think the fact that the personal pension offered different, and what might be regarded 
as more favourable death benefits, justified Mr Ms retirement income being reduced. I dont 
see that it was in his best interests to prioritise potentially better death benefits over his 
financial security in retirement. I dont think MFS properly explored whether Mr M was really 
prepared and in a position to give up the guaranteed and escalating income that the DB 
scheme wouldve provided. 
And any lump sum which might be available on Mr Ms death would depend on how much, if 
any, of the fund remained after withdrawals and investment returns. Although Mr Ms wishes 
to benefit his children were a relevant consideration and something Mr M was concerned 
about, Im not persuaded transferring was justified because of the perceived superior death 
benefits the personal pension potentially offered. MFS has also pointed to Mr M wanting early access to his pension benefits and flexibility to 
take what he liked when he liked. I think MFS shouldve been particularly careful to ensure 
that Mr M understood that approach could result in his fund being depleted and not lasting 
throughout his retirement. 
Mr Ms requirement for flexibility seems to centre on wanting to access a lump sum so he 
could gift £10,000 to each of his three children. Again I can understand why Mr M may have 
wanted to help his children but it was up to MFS to make sure that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. Instead of accepting what Mr M had said he wanted to do, MFS shouldve 
made sure Mr M understood the impact of transferring on his long term retirement provision. 
The money would no doubt have been appreciated by Mr Ms children but theres nothing to 
suggest that any of them needed it urgently. Id expect to see further discussions as to 
whether making such gifts really was a priority, given that Mr M would be making an 
irrevocable decision which would leave him financially worse off in the longer term.  
And it seems that Mr M couldve used his AVC fund to raise cash if he really needed it or 
wanted to give money to his children. The full £30,000 he had in mind for that wouldnt have 
been covered but Mr M may have been prepared to revise that figure in the interests of 
retaining his DB pension and the security and higher benefits it offered. 
Mr M had also said he wanted to have an emergency fund. But I dont think that of itself or 
taken in conjunction with the other factors shouldve been a priority and at the expense of 
losing the guaranteed benefits offered by the DB scheme. And when it seems he did have 
surplus income anyway. MFS also seems to have accepted at face value what Mr M said 
about not wanting an income. But Id expect there to have been some discussion and 
analysis as to whether it might benefit Mr M to take his DB scheme benefits and the income 
that would come with it. MFS says that taking income may well have affected any means 
tested benefits Mr M was receiving. That may or may not have been the case but the point is 
that MFS doesnt appear to have made any attempt to find out. 
I note what MFS has said about Mr M being able to convert his flexible drawdown plan to an 
annuity at any time. And the calculations that MFS has undertaken to demonstrate that Mr M 
could buy an annuity using the remaining fund after the tax-free cash and get a higher 
income than hed have got from the DB scheme. But Im looking at the advice and its 
suitability at the time it was given. The transfer value actually paid increased substantially 
and since the transfer annuity rates have improved and Mr M is older, all of which will be 
reflected in any annuity Mr M could in theory now buy. Whereas its for MFS to demonstrate 
 on contemporaneous evidence  that the advice was in Mr Ms best interests at the time. 
I further note all MFS has said about Mr M having approached MFS and that MFS had 
several meetings to discuss things with him, understand his requirements, explain the 
procedure and the potential risks. But even if MFS took a thorough approach and care to 
ensure Mr M understood the advice, that doesnt mean it was suitable. The transfer wasnt 
financially viable and represented more risk than Mr M shouldve been advised to take. Im 
not persuaded the other reasons given justified the recommendation. I dont think Mr Ms 
circumstances were such that he shouldve been advised to give up the valuable guaranteed 
benefits the DB scheme offered. 
Im not persuaded, if MFS had advised Mr M that he shouldnt transfer, that hed have 
insisted on transferring anyway. I say that because Ive not seen anything to indicate Mr M 
was an experienced investor who had the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to go 
against professional financial advice hed been given, especially in a complex pension 
matter. If MFS had given Mr M clear advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme and 
explained why it wasnt in his best interests, I think Mr M wouldve accepted that advice.The upshot is that MFS must compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Ive previously clarified 
with MFS and Mr Ms representative a couple of points as to the redress that would apply in 
the event that I upheld the complaint.  
First, DISP App 4.3 sets out the steps a firm must take in carrying out a redress calculation 
for non compliant pension transfer advice. DISP App 4.3.15R requires a firm to determine 
when the consumer wouldve taken retirement benefits from the DB pension scheme. Under 
DISP App 4.3.16R theres a presumption that benefits wouldve been taken at the DB 
schemes normal retirement age. DISP App 4.3.17G sets out examples of when that 
presumption will be rebutted. I explained that I didnt consider Mr Ms situation fell within any 
of the examples given. So redress should be on the basis of the DB scheme retirement age 
which was 60.
Secondly, DISP App 4.4.2R sets out the redress calculation formula. It takes into account, as 
well as the current value of the defined contribution (DC) pension arrangement, the 
accumulated value of past benefits paid to the consumer from the DC pension arrangement 
from the retirement date to the valuation date. I said my understanding was that the 
withdrawals Mr M made will be taken into account and added back into any redress 
calculation. The upshot is that MFS wont have to bear the cost of such withdrawals. 
I added that I wasnt sure if Mr Ms representative sought to argue differently. I went on to 
say why I didnt consider it would be fair to make an award which meant all or some of the 
withdrawals Mr M made shouldnt be taken into account. I noted what had been said about 
Mr M being vulnerable but, even so, I didnt think it wouldve been reasonably foreseeable 
that hed act as he did. I added that, although some of the money appeared to have been 
given away to strangers or charities, Mr M did help his children which was presumably 
something hed have done anyway. 
MFS agreed with both points. Mr Ms representative agreed that the DB scheme retirement 
age (60) should be used as per the presumption. On the second point, Mr Ms representative 
said its understanding was that withdrawals would be taken into account. But some 
withdrawals, which werent for family members, had only been made because Mr M was 
vulnerable and so shouldnt be taken into account  but for MFS advice Mr M wouldnt have 
withdrawn those sums and so lost that money, which wasnt used for him or his family. 
Ive considered that very carefully. My decision to uphold the complaint doesnt turn on any 
vulnerability on Mr Ms part, but on the usual considerations as to suitability and whether the 
transfer could be said to be in Mr Ms best interests, which, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think it was. But Ive considered Mr Ms vulnerability in the context of the withdrawals 
he made. I think that comes down to whether MFS knew Mr M was vulnerable or ought to 
have suspected he might be. 
A vulnerable customer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm isnt acting with appropriate levels of care. All 
customers are at risk of becoming vulnerable. There are four key drivers: health; life events; 
resilience; and low financial or other capability (such as literacy or digital skills). Mr Ms 
representative points to Mr Ms health and personal circumstances, including that he was in 
receipt of state benefits. I can see those were indicators which might suggest Mr M was or 
could be vulnerable. 
On the other hand, theres no suggestion that Mr M self identified as vulnerable  that is, he 
didnt tell MFS he was or could be vulnerable. Nor have I seen anything to suggest how he 
presented to MFS shouldve led MFS to think about if he might be vulnerable. And Mr M didnt want to share certain information with MFS. I note the fact find records Mr Ms health 
as fair and that he had some health issues which he didnt want to discuss. He also told 
MFS that he was in receipt of Employment Support Allowance (ESA) and Personal 
Independence Payment (PIP). 
ESA is paid to those under state pension age who are having difficulty in finding work 
because of a long term medical condition or disability. PIP is paid to help with the extra costs 
of living with a health condition or disability. So MFS wouldve known, from what hed said 
and the benefits he was getting, that Mr M had a long term health condition which qualified 
him for state benefits. But not every customer in that situation will be vulnerable. On balance, 
and absent any other factors which mightve pointed to him being vulnerable, Im not 
persuaded that MFS shouldve treated Mr M on the basis he was or might be vulnerable. So 
Im not going to say that any of the withdrawals that Mr M made should be discounted. And, 
as Ive indicated, I dont think it would be reasonably foreseeable that Mr M would act as he 
did in terms of giving money away following the transfer.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Merlin Financial Services Limited to put Mr M, 
as far as possible, into the position hed now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider 
hed likely have remained in the DB scheme. 
Merlin Financial Services Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
Policy Statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4.
For clarity, for the reasons discussed, compensation should be based on the DB schemes 
normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCAs guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, the
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in PS22/13 and set out in DISP
App 4, Merlin Financial Services Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with 
the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment the 
current defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be used to augment 
the pension rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Merlin Financial Services Limiteds offer to calculate how much of the 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr 
M for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid directly to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of
benefits that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4,Merlin Financial Services Limited may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement is presumed to 
be 20%. However, if Mr M wouldve been able to take 25% tax-free cash from the benefits 
the cash payment represents, then this notional reduction may only be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall notional deduction of 15%.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Merlin Financial Services Limited must redress Mr M as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman