DRN-3642631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way in which The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited trading as Scottish Provident handled their critical illness claim. They say it 
caused delays and failed to refund premiums paid after the claim should have been settled.  
What happened
On 23 August 2021, Mr T made a claim to Scottish Provident for critical illness benefit after 
he had sadly been diagnosed with a type of cancer. They had held a Pegasus Personal 
Assurance Plan since March 2003, which was operated by Scottish Provident. 
On 25 August 2021, Scottish Provident wrote to Mr and Mrs T and arranged a claim call for 1 
September 2021. It also set out that if Mr T had any relevant information about his diagnosis, 
he should forward it on. It confirmed the policys sum assured at that date was £36,185. 
On 28 September 2021, Scottish Provident wrote to Mr and Mrs T. It said it had written to Mr 
Ts GP and treating consultant on both 1 September and 28 September 2021. 
On 8 October 2021, Mr T complained by telephone, and on 21 October 2021 he furthered 
the complaint by email, noting it had been almost two weeks without acknowledgement. In 
this email he said he had recently attended hospital and asked if his treating department had 
heard from Scottish Provident (as it said it had written out for information) but they had not.  
Mr T also said that emails had been sent to Scottish Provident on 3 September, 13 
September, 1 October and 4 October without reply. Finally he said that though Scottish 
Provident had noted twice in September 2021 about writing to his GP and consultant, both of 
them hadnt received the letters and he had to chase the matter himself. 
Mr T said he felt obliged to inform others of Scottish Providents poor service, since he 
worked in the financial advice sector and understood expected behaviours and standards.  
On 4 November 2021, Scottish Provident confirmed it had accepted Mr Ts claim under his 
and Mrs Ts policy with effect from 24 August 2021. It confirmed a total payment to Mr and 
Mrs T of £36,281.86, comprising £36,185 for the claim payment, a premium refund of £67.93 
and £28.93 net interest.  
On 5 November 2021, Scottish Provident wrote to Mr T noting it had yet to conclude the 
complaint investigation, but it would write to him within four weeks with an update. 
On 3 December 2021, the complaint was rejected by Scottish Provident. It said it was 
satisfied it had followed a correct process, with appropriate updates. It couldnt explain why 
Mr T hadnt received emails but they were correctly sent. And Mrs T had received an email 
during a call of 3 November 2021, so its system had not been failing. 
Mr and Mrs T therefore referred their complaint to this service. Mr T supplied a timeline of his 
actions, and a further explanation of what had happened chronologically. He said that the 
second claim handler he dealt with had tried to get to the bottom of his and Mrs Ts non-
receipt of emails. He also noted how he hadnt blocked emails from Scottish Provident and 
he would welcome any IT specialist to look at his laptop to check both his private and work 
emails to prove that this was the case. 
He also felt the third claim handler didnt believe that emails and letters were not arriving 
properly. In his view, Scottish Provident ought to follow up correspondence by telephone, to 
ensure proper receipt. He finally said that he felt 79 calendar days was an exceptionally long 
time to settle a critical illness claim and this was only because he chased it the entire way. 
Scottish Provident did not call him or utilise his two email addresses.  
Finally, Mr T questioned the premiums being returned to him. These were collected on 11th 
of each month and they had paid them in advance, in August, September and October, but 
Scottish Provident was only proposing to return one premium in its claim payment. 
Mr T also made a separate referral to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to explain that 
he felt Scottish Provident had systemic failures in relation to its claim handling procedures. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He said that Scottish Provident 
did owe Mr and Mrs T two premium payments after the claim had been settled  one of 
these was still outstanding. But, it had confirmed that would now be paid. Otherwise, he felt it 
had fairly processed the claim; though delays took place these were due to Scottish 
Provident awaiting medical information required to validate the claim, which it had chased.  
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They made a number of further submissions, noting:
they do not accept the findings of our investigator;
though Scottish Provident intends to correct its mistake, it is not being punished in 
any way for having withheld the premium;
so the outcome is hardly a deterrent if businesses can withhold money, then merely 
be required to return it at the final hurdle;
Scottish Provident gave them a leaflet entitled five simple steps to help you make 
your claim but then didnt comply with the stated steps;
for example, it didnt call them or their adviser, despite the leaflet saying so;
they emailed medical letters to Scottish Provident on 3 September 2021 and 21 
September 2021 but had no reply;
Scottish Provident now accepts that its email to Mr and Mrs T of 21 September 2021 
wasnt received;
but it still didnt chase them to provide an update;
if there was an issue with the email system it could and should have called them;
they dispute that there was a need to have a report from Mr Ts doctor  Scottish 
Provident had the clinic letters on file already, so why wasnt this sufficient to tell 
them if they had a claim?;
they want the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ts diagnosis, and send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs T. 
Though I realise my decision will not be what theyve hoped for, I am not able to uphold this 
complaint aside from recommending that the missing premium be paid  which I believe has since happened. Ill explain my reasons below.  
The Services role is to investigate disputes and resolve complaints informally, whilst taking 
into account relevant laws, regulations and best practice. In reaching my decision, I may not 
comment on every piece of evidence; instead Ill focus on the issues I believe to be central to 
the complaint. I can see that Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly that the claim process has been 
unduly and unreasonably prolonged by Scottish Provident. Whilst Mr T is entitled to form his 
own view on what has gone on, I must also do the same. And from an objective standpoint, I 
do not consider that this claim has been unfairly handled by Scottish Provident. 
Its also important for me to point out that we are not regulators; that role falls to the FCA  
and Mr T knows about this, given his professional background. And I understand Mr T has 
asked Scottish Provident for statistics about claim processes and it has contacted him 
separately about that. But I dont believe it is appropriate for me to make findings generally 
on its internal procedures, as they are not specific to this complaint. 
After the telephone claim process at the start of September, matters were prolonged 
because Scottish Provident did not receive a reply from Dr A, Mr Ts General Practitioner. I 
know Mr T has questioned the use of emails, but the two communications Scottish Provident 
sent at the start and end of September 2021 were sent to the right email address. 
I dont see anything wrong with using email as a means of contact, providing it is used with 
appropriate security measures regarding sensitive data. And Mr T told Scottish Provident of 
the right address for Dr A, after he received its letter dated 28 September 2021 a few days 
later. In his email, he restated the same email address for Dr A that had already been used. 
I believe the reason for the delay was the fact Dr A had been absent from work. Mr T 
confirmed as such, noting that on 29 October 2021 he met with Dr A for an in-person 
appointment, and during that meeting Dr A had explained he had sadly been off work for 
several months following a heart attack and had only returned to the practice that week. 
Similarly, a letter was issued to Mr Ts treating hospital  and Mr T told Scottish Provident 
how he had encountered issued and delays there, and he has since complained separately 
to the hospital about its service standards. 
Mr T also queried why Scottish Provident couldnt use telephone calls. Its not for me to 
direct a business in how it conducts administration or communications or how to make 
commercial decisions. But I note that on 28 September 2021, it did call the GP surgery, and 
a further email was then dispatched again to the confirmed email address. 
No two claim processes will be identical. In order to assess the validity of a claim, an insurer 
will need receipt of medical evidence to confirm the relevant policy definition has been met  
as critical illness events in policies such as Mr and Mrs Ts are severity-based. Not all claims 
will meet the defined policy wording, and so appropriate medical evidence from treating 
professionals will need to be sought and reviewed by an insurer. That is understandably 
stressful for policyholders alongside dealing with the impact of a particular event or 
diagnosis. It isnt meant as a discourtesy, but its a necessary measure to authorise claims.  
Mr T feels that Scottish Provident didnt expressly explain whether the information he had 
sent at the start of the claim was of use, but its correspondence (for example the letter of 28 
September) did set out what was happening and the steps it was taking. And, at Mr Ts 
request, Scottish Provident wrote to Dr Y, a different treating consultant at the hospital.  
It is unfortunate that when Mr T met with Dr Ys department, it did not have record of the 
letter. But I believe on balance that the letter was sent  Scottish Provident has provided evidence of the letter and it is correctly addressed. The vast majority of correspondence is 
properly received and I wouldnt expect a business to have to track each and every piece of 
correspondence, given the volumes of outbound letters and emails issued each day.  
The first relevant evidence upon which Scottish Provident was able to assess the claim was 
received on 22 October 2021. It confirmed the acceptance of the claim ten days later on 2 
November 2021, and in writing two days after that. I believe that is a fair and reasonable 
timescale in the circumstances, given the evidence would need to be reviewed by a 
specialist claims handler and that Scottish Provident will have a limit on specialist staff, as 
well as other claimants awaiting claim decisions and responses to correspondence.  
Most importantly, Scottish Provident has gone further than required by backdating the claim. 
It could have accepted the claim as at the date it received appropriate evidence. But it didnt 
do this  it backdated the validity date to the next working day after the claim notification, so 
from 24 August 2021. Following this, it has paid interest on the claim value and accepted 
that the two premiums paid after this date of September and October 2021 (not three, as Mr 
T contended, because the claim was met before the 11 November premium and cover paid 
up to 10 November) ought to be returned to Mr and Mrs T. 
Insurers may continue to take premium payments whilst a claim is being investigated 
because not all claims will meet the requirements of a policyholders terms and conditions  
so some policies will continue after a declined claim. Ceasing payments could affect the 
cover being provided; contracts such as these can be lapsed for non-payment of premiums. 
I accept that Scottish Provident did not include the October 2021 premium in its claim 
settlement letter when it should have. And I understand this has since been put right. But I 
dont accept the view that Scottish Provident should be penalised further for this oversight. 
As Ive explained above, it has chosen to return the premiums over and above what is 
required; because at 11 September and 11 October 2021, evidence had not been received 
to validate the claim. I am pleased to note that it chose to backdate the claim and return the 
premiums, but I do not find further compensation is due for the delay in the October refund.  
Putting things right
I believe Scottish Provident has paid Mr and Mrs T the outstanding October premium refund, 
but if it has not done so, it must make that payment without any further delay. 
My final decision
Though Mr and Mrs T undoubtedly feel strongly about this matter, my view is that Scottish 
Provident has fairly processed the claim payment upon receipt of valid evidence to satisfy 
the relevant policy definition, and it did not cause unnecessary delays. And so, I do not 
uphold this complaint aside from the direction to pay the outstanding premium refund  if this 
has not already been done.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman