DRN-2763833
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax irresponsibly increased the
credit limit on his credit card account.
 What happened
Mr W applied for a Halifax credit card whilst he was working and living at his parents home.
He says he later told Halifax he was leaving the United Kingdom (UK) for travel but it made a
number of unaffordable increases to the credit limit. Mr W says his father paid off the
balance in 2017 but he continued to spend. He says the debt has caused mental health
issues and would like it written off. And says it ought to have been obvious to Halifax he was
not in the UK and no longer had a wage paid into his Halifax current account.
Halifax says it credit scored the application and used information that was known about Mr
W from its relationship with him. It says Mr W had a regular wage paid into his account and
doesnt have a record of being told of Mr Ws travel plans. It says it applied a number of
increases to the credit limit and Mr W could have rejected them and ought to have noticed
them on his credit card statements. Halifax says the full balance was paid off in July 2017
and it increased the credit limit on 21 December 2017 to £4,250.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought in
summary that Halifax should not have increased the credit limit from £2,750 to £4,250 in
December 2017 and ought to have carried out a proportionate assessment before doing so.
The investigator thought Halifax used out of date information to credit score the increase and
ought to have noticed that Mr W no longer had an income and was abroad. She
recommended Halifax pay £300 for the significant distress caused and re-calculate the
account and refund any charges or interest. She also recommended any adverse
information be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
Halifax doesnt accept that view and maintains the increases were appropriately assessed.
Mr W accepts the investigators view.
I asked both sides for further information, and Mr W has confirmed he was working for some
of the time whilst abroad and says he didnt have any other debts. He says the credit limit
increase allowed him to remain abroad for longer.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that I uphold the main part of this complaint, that 
Halifax should not have increased the credit limit in December 2017. But I didnt think that 
mistake justified the compensation recommended by the investigator and I couldnt be sure 
that mistake led to the health difficulties Mr W now has.
 I said there was no issue here that when Mr W applied for the credit card account, he was in 
full time employment with a regular income and limited outgoings. So, I didnt think Halifax
made a mistake or acted irresponsibly by approving the application and I thought the 
account was affordable.
I appreciated there was a dispute about if Mr W told Halifax he was travelling and leaving his
job. I thought it likely that Mr W did tell Halifax that as I thought that was part of the reason, 
he opened the credit card account. In any event I would have thought it obvious to Halifax 
that Mr W had left the UK as it was clear all of his spending was abroad.
 I said the key issue was the credit limit increase from £2,750 to £4,250 in December 2017. 
The investigator set out the correct process for a lender to follow when considering such
matters and in summary, a lender must carry out proportionate and reasonable checks
before making a lending decision. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of
lending and the amount. I made clear that I considered an increase of over 50% of the 
existing credit limit to be significant and Halifax in those circumstances ought to have carried 
out further checks before deciding to increase the limit.
I appreciated Halifax says it did carry out appropriate checks before increasing the credit 
limit. But I was satisfied it simply used the existing figures that it held from the original 
application and assumed nothing had changed and that Mr W was still working in the UK. I 
was satisfied that Halifax told us it doesnt just credit score such matters but looks at the 
information it has from its existing relationship with a customer. I thought if it had done so, 
then it ought to have been obvious to it that, firstly Mr W no longer received an income into 
his Halifax current account and, secondly looking at the credit card statements, it would have 
been clear Mr W wasnt present in the UK. In those circumstances I would have expected 
Halifax to have carried out further checks before deciding to increase the credit limit. And I 
also thought it unlikely the credit limit would have been increased by such a relatively large 
amount if Halifax had realised Mr W was not in the UK and no longer in full time employment 
in the UK.
I was satisfied that the increased lending was unaffordable and the lending decision
irresponsible. And that appropriate and proportionate checks were not carried out using up
to date information. I didnt think it reasonable for Halifax to say Mr W could have rejected 
the increases or closed his account in July 2017.
I agreed with the investigator that Halifax would need to reconstruct Mr Ws account and 
deduct any charges or interest imposed after December 2017 over and above those that 
would have been incurred if the credit limit was still £2,750. And I said I hoped it will be able 
to confirm that it can do so and how much that amount is before my final decision. Those 
sums should be deducted from the balance Mr W owes Halifax unless the debt has been 
repaid.
I also come to the provisional view that Halifax should pay £100 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience Mr W was caused. I appreciated Mr W says he has suffered
mental health problems as a result of what took place, but I couldnt be sure that a decision 
to increase a credit limit led to the difficulties he now experiences or why that would be the
case. I considered that Mr W benefited from the credit limit increase as he has told
me that allowed him to continue his travels for a longer time period. I said I couldnt fairly 
order Halifax to write off all or some of the balance as I was satisfied Mr W had the benefit of 
that money.
Halifax has replied to my provisional decision and has accepted it. It says it has calculated 
the interest and charges that should be deducted as just over £828. Mr W hasnt responded.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Halifax to refund the interest and charges and also order it to pay £100 
compensation. It should also remove any adverse information it has registered on Mr Ws 
credit file following the credit limit increase in December 2017 and should pay 8% simple 
interest on any refund to Mr W of charges and interest if there is a balanced owed to him 
after deducting the refund from the outstanding balance. Halifax should provide a certificate 
of tax deducted from that amount if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax to pay Mr W £100 compensation. I also order it to refund any interest and charges 
applied from December 2017 and deduct that amount from the balance owed. And remove 
any adverse data from Mr Ws credit file from that date. Mr W should be given a certificate of 
taxation deducted and paid to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman