DRN-4073797
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service hes received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
What happened
Mr H has a life insurance policy with Aviva. Hes unhappy with letters Aviva sent about his 
direct debit payments. In summary, Mr H says the correspondence said that he didnt need 
to make a payment in January 2023, but Aviva still tried to collect the premium. This is an 
issue hes had before, and Aviva has waived the January premium previously.
In their final response letter, dated February 2023, Aviva agreed the letter needed to be 
updated and said theyd feedback to the relevant team. They also accepted some failings 
had been made in the overall service Mr H had received. However, they said the premiums 
were always due monthly. They acknowledged theyd waived a premium on one occasion 
but highlighted the relevant sections of the policy terms and schedule. They paid Mr H £200 
compensation. Unhappy, Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended the compensation should be 
increased to a total of £300 and cover any financial losses Mr H had incurred, such as bank 
charges. He thought the letter was incorrect and had inconvenienced Mr H because hed 
planned his finances on the basis of that information. However, he thought the premium was 
due and shouldnt be waived. 
Aviva clarified that Mr H had cancelled the direct debit, so no payment had been actually 
taken from Mr Hs account in January 2023. Mr H didnt agree with the investigators 
recommendation and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said 
that he should be able to rely on the written communications and that they formed part of the 
contract. He was also unhappy that this was a mistake which had happened previously and 
said Aviva should waive the premiums for the other years when the same mistake had been 
made. Mr H confirmed that Aviva had cancelled the plan, despite him asking them not to 
whilst the Financial Ombudsman Service investigated the complaint. Our investigator let 
Mr H know that anything that has happened since Aviva issued their final response letter 
would need to be referred to them as a new complaint. The complaint was passed to me to 
make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint but I think a total of £300 compensation fairly reflects 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I say that because: 
I think the policy terms and conditions, and the schedule, make it clear that premiums 
are due every month. I think Mr H was aware of that, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware that, premiums were due every month.  
Aviva accepts that some of the correspondence wasnt clear and has provided 
feedback to the relevant department about updating the letter. I think thats a 
reasonable and appropriate response in the circumstances of this case. Id expect 
Aviva to apply any learning from Mr Hs experience, but I cant direct them to change 
their overall processes.  
I think £300 compensation fairly reflects the impact this confusion, worry and upset 
caused to Mr H, including the overall service he received. In reaching this conclusion 
Ive considered everything Mr H has said about his disability and overall 
circumstances.
Aviva queried whether Mr H had experienced any financial losses because the 
payment wasnt made. However, if Mr H can evidence that he did incur any bank 
charges because of this specific transaction Aviva should cover them because Im 
satisfied the confusion impacted on how he planned his finances. 
Aviva chose to waive the premium on one occasion following a similar incident. I 
dont think that means it is fair and reasonable for them to have to do so again or that 
they should reimburse previous payments. It doesnt amount to an acceptance that 
the premium wasnt due or create a precedent to do this on an ongoing basis. This 
was an administrative issue, so I think Mr H still needs to pay for the cover hes 
receiving from Aviva. I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude he should 
effectively receive some free cover from Aviva each year due to this issue.  
I can only consider the issues which arose prior to Aviva issuing their final response 
letter. Mr H will need to complain to Aviva about any further issues in relation to the 
cancellation or reinstatement of the policy, including his concerns about the amount 
of premiums due.  
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and direct Aviva to pay him a total of £300 compensation 
(inclusive of the £200 hes already been paid). If Mr H can provide evidence that he incurred 
any bank charges or fees in relation to this specific transaction Aviva should pay those costs 
too. But I dont think they need to do anything further to put things right.  
My final decision
Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman