DRN-1757357
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.   
What happened
During a meeting in 1998 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Lloyds. At the same time 
they took out a PPI policy. The policy covered Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage payments if they 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost their jobs. The benefit was split 75/25 
in Mr Cs favour.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr and Mrs C 
wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the policy and it wouldve suited their needs 
at the time. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, they say they werent asked if they wanted the policy and didnt 
need it.
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting at a branch of Lloyds. Lloyds had to make it clear the 
PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs C chose to take it. Mr and Mrs C says this wasnt done but 
havent given us much detail about what was said during the meeting to make them think 
this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more 
on what the documents from the sale show.
Lloyds have given us a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs PPI application form and direct debit 
mandate signed by them. The application form is titled Payment Protection Plus Proposal 
Form and is entirely separate from the mortgage application. 
Given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs C were making I think its 
likely they read the application form and direct debit mandate before signing them and I think 
they wouldve understood they were taking out PPI. If they didnt want the cover I dont think 
they wouldve completed an application and direct debit mandate for it. 
And following the application for PPI Lloyds sent out a letter to Mr and Mrs C enclosing the 
PPI schedule of cover. The letter thanks Mr and Mrs C for choosing to take out PPI and explains how to cancel the policy. So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve understood they had a 
choice in taking the policy because of the way it was presented in the paperwork.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs C to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs C 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like they wouldve been 
caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim. I understand that Mr C was 
already 60 years of age when the policy was taken but this still left him with enough 
time to benefit from the policy.  
 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs C say they were both entitled to sick pay which 
they could use to make their repayments if they couldnt work. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer covering their 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months if they was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or if they lost their jobs. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs C in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs C at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and 
Mrs C have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the policy if theyd been given all the proper information.  
This means Mr and Mrs C arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman