DRN-2213583
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1993 to
protect a mortgage. Mrs S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. There is limited information available from the time the PPI was 
sold, but this isnt surprising considering the time thats passed, and that businesses arent 
required to keep this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available I 
think its more likely that Santander made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs S have told us she cant remember her sick pay entitlement from the time she applied 
for the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay she would have 
received.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seemed to have had a need for the 
cover.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put
her off taking out the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mrs 
S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said, but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman