DRN-3214975
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy NewDay Ltd wont refund money he paid for some work to be carried out at 
his property. Hes made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr S engaged a company, who Ill call F, to carry out building work on a property he owns. In 
June 2019, Mr S used his Aqua branded credit card from NewDay to make a payment of €50 
to F as a partial deposit for the work. 
Mr S said that F abandoned the project before it was completed and there were many 
deficiencies with the work that had been carried out. In July 2020, he wrote to NewDay to 
make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). He asked NewDay 
to reimburse around €38,500 to him with the possibility this amount could increase.
 
NewDay rejected the claim saying it wasnt able to establish there had been a breach of 
contract. Various correspondence was then exchanged, and NewDay investigated this issue 
as a complaint. In its response to Mr S, NewDay repeated its position that there wasnt 
enough evidence to support his claim that thered been a breach of contract by F.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into it. 
Briefly, she thought S75 didnt apply to Mr Ss situation as the cost of the building work 
exceeded the upper financial limit for such claims. Mr S didnt agree. He also questioned 
why wed raised this as a defence for NewDay when it hadnt.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and largely 
in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: has NewDay acted unfairly and unreasonably in not giving Mr S 
the refund he asked for?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual point or argument, only those that Im satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
I would point out that this complaint is against NewDay, not F. Im only looking here at 
whether NewDay has acted in a fair and reasonable way when dealing with Mr Ss S75 claim 
for a refund.
 
S75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, as the provider of part of the finance used to pay 
for the building work, Mr S has a like claim against NewDay for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, F. Here, Mr S says theres a breach of contract as F didnt 
complete the work and there were many problems with the work that was carried out.
 
As Ive said above, S75 applies in certain circumstances. This includes a requirement that 
the cash price relating to any single item must be more than £100 but not more than 
£30,000. Ive looked at the contract between Mr S and F. This clearly defines the scope and 
cost of the work to be completed. Using the same exchange rate as the one Mr S received 
when making the €50 deposit payment on his credit card, the cost of the work is around 
£48,000. This is considerably more than the £30,000 limit imposed by S75.
 
I know Mr S doesnt accept his claim falls outside of the S75 limits. I can see he says his 
contract was made up of individual phases, with the cost of each of these falling within the 
S75 limits. Mr S kindly provided details of on-line information from a hight street bank. This 
used the example of two tickets costing £60 each not meeting the lower limit as, even 
though the total cost was over £100, the individual item price was below the limit.
 
I dont disagree with this  each ticket is effectively an individual contract for a single item 
that can be used separately. But I dont agree Mr Ss contract with F is comparable with this 
example. When thinking about if Mr S was agreeing to have single items of work done, Ive 
reviewed his contract with F and thought about its purpose. I can see how the work has been 
identified and how the cost of it has been defined.
 
From this, Im satisfied the contract is for the work as a whole. Its one single contract for 
work to be carried out to Mr Ss property. While it is split into separate phases, I can see 
these phases are intrinsically interlinked. For example, phase three  painting the interior 
and main faade, was unable to be carried out independently. It was reliant on phase two, 
the main bulk of the building work, being carried out first. After looking at the contract as a 
whole, Im not satisfied it was a contract for distinct single items. Instead, Im satisfied the 
purpose of the contract was for F to carry out the building work in its entirety, in a logically 
progressed way.
 
It follows that Im satisfied its the total price of the work set out in the individual contract here 
that needs to meet the financial limits of S75. As Ive said, the total price was around 
£48,000. This is above the limit set out in S75 for Mr S to have a like claim against NewDay 
for the breach of contract he says has been committed by F. Taking all the above into 
account, Im satisfied NewDay hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mr S a 
refund under S75.
 
For completeness, I can see Mr S has questioned why weve raised the issue of his claim 
being outside the S75 limits when NewDay hasnt. As our investigator pointed out, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is completely independent. We dont act or take instruction 
from either Mr S or NewDay. Our remit is an inquisitorial one.
 
Im required to determine complaints by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I take into account, among other things, relevant law and regulations. Here that 
includes S75. If, as is the case here, Im satisfied a claim doesnt fall within the limits set out 
in S75, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to direct NewDay to consider such a claim, even if it 
hadnt raised this point itself. 
In summary, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied the single cash price of Mr Ss 
individual contract with F exceeds the limit set out in S75. So, Im also satisfied this means 
NewDay hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably when not giving him a refund.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman