DRN-2818337
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) refused to change the name on his 
account he hes unable to provide the documentation Revolut has asked for.
 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr T contacted Revolut ask it how he could change the name on his 
account. He explained that hed changed his name via deed poll. Mr T provided a photo of 
the deed poll document as requested by Revolut via its in-app chat facility.
Following receipt of the picture of the deed poll, Revolut told Mr T that it was unable to 
change the name on his account using the document hed provided. It explained that as the 
document wasnt stamped it wasnt considered an acceptable proof of identity. But it 
explained that Mr T could change his name using the document once it had been officially 
stamped, or he could provide a government-issued form of identification, such as a driving 
licence or passport.
Mr T also provided Revolut with a picture of his provisional driving licence. Revolut also said 
that this wasnt an acceptable form of identification, as it could only accept a full driving 
licence. Mr T questioned Revoluts decision as he explained that hed been able to use his 
provisional driving licence as identification when he requested to update his email address. 
Revolut accepted it had made a mistake by accepting the provisional licence.
Mr T explained he couldnt provide what Revolut had asked for in order to change his name. 
And he explained that other banks had accepted the deed poll document despite it not being 
stamped. He also referred to the Governments website on name changes, specifically 
pointing out that this form of deed poll is recognised in law as an acceptable way for a 
person to change their name. As the situation wasnt resolved Mr T made a complaint to 
Revolut, which Revolut didnt uphold. 
Following Mr Ts complaint to Revolut, he brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered everything but didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought it was reasonable for Revolut to have its own policies for which 
identification it does and doesnt accept. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the case has come to me to make a 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
All financial institutions in the United Kingdom are required to verify their customers identity 
 this is often referred to as Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) sets the rules for how businesses need to verify their customers  but it 
doesnt provide a prescriptive list of acceptable documents that businesses can use. Thats 
foreach individual business to decide. 
In this case, Revolut has explained that it cant accept Mr Ts deed poll document as its an 
unenrolled deed poll. An unrolled deed poll is a document created by an individual with the 
purpose of noting organisations that they deal with that theyve changed their name. The UK 
Government website gives information on the wording that should be included in an unrolled 
deed poll and explains that it needs to be signed by two witnesses, but doesnt need to be 
officially stamped or signed by a public or professional body. I also note that the information 
from the Government also says:
Some organisations may not accept a deed poll youve made yourself as proof of your new 
name. Ask the organisation youre dealing with (for example your bank) if they need 
an enrolled deed poll instead.
 
The difference with an enrolled deed poll is that this is registered by the court, and 
consequently the individuals new name is placed on public record.
Mr T has explained that changing your name using either form of deed poll forms part of 
common law, and so Revolut should accept what hes provided. But I dont agree  as this 
isnt a legal matter. Whilst it may be true that the law says an individual can start using a new 
name based on an unrolled deed poll, thats not to say that the same document must be 
accepted by financial institutions as a proof of the individuals identity. Financial institutions 
need to follow strict rules set out by their regulator to assure themselves that theyre dealing 
with properly identified individuals, to prevent themselves from the likes of financial crime 
and money laundering. 
Revolut has also explained that whilst other companies may have accepted Mr Ts 
unenrolled deed poll to change his name, Revolut has a slightly more robust procedure in 
place. It has explained that as an online and app-only financial institution it could be more 
susceptible to identity fraud; so it has enhanced measures in place to protect itself against 
these. And I dont think thats unreasonable. In fact, Id be more surprised if a financial 
institution did accept Mr Ts unrolled deed pool without any other form of identification or 
verification of it. 
With this in mind, Ive also gone on to consider whether Revolut adhered to its own 
standards of verification. Revolut has provided me with a copy of its internal guidance and 
this shows that Revolut accepts United Kingdom driving licences as a form of identification  
but not provisional licences. Revolut also says that whilst it will accept unenrolled deed 
pools, these need to be stamped and signed by a Notary Public  a recognised legal 
professional with the power to verify documents. Its not for me to decide whether Revoluts 
policy on this is right or wrong, but it does satisfy me that Revolut followed its own guidance 
by not accepting Mr Ts provisional licence or unenrolled deed poll which hadnt been 
stamped or signed. 
Having reviewed the in-app chat histories between Mr T and Revolut, I note that Revolut 
also explained that Mr T could provide a passport or driving licence, instead of a stamped or 
enrolled deed poll. Mr T says that Revolut could be seen as discriminating against people 
who dont have any of those documents, as theres a cost involved. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ts point, this doesnt change my decision on the matter at hand. I 
agree that not everyone can have, or wants to have a passport of driving licence, but I dont 
think that affects what Revolut should require to verify a customers identity. Revolut gave Mr 
T three different options as to what documentation he could provide. Its unfortunate that he hasnt been able to provide any of those options, but I cant see a reason that they wouldnt 
be available to him, should he wish to use them. And having considered this, I think Revolut 
has acted fairly by giving Mr T various ways to verify his identity, albeit he says hes still 
unable to. I know Mr T has quoted the number of people in the United Kingdom that dont 
have a passport or driving licence, but I can only consider the facts of this individual case. 
And I dont find that relevant to the case, or discriminatory to Mr T in these circumstances. 
Having considered everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. So Revolut doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman