DRN-3630470
The complaint
Mr R complains about the level of service received from Aviva Insurance Limited following a 
claim against his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr R says Aviva took far too long to resolve a boiler leak claim he reported on 
28 November 2021  which was resolved on 3 December 2021. 
He says Aviva sent a plumber rather than a gas engineer  despite him telling them not to  
which resulted in delays, further visits, and left him with a lack of heating and hot water 
during a cold spell. He also says Aviva failed to ask him about his personal circumstances 
when he reported the claim, so he complained. 
Aviva responded to it in December 2021. They accepted things could have been handled 
better and paid Mr R £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. Mr R 
remained unhappy. He also says the policy is misleading as it says it offers 24/7 support, 
which Aviva failed to provide. So, he approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Although he thought Aviva 
could have handled the claim better, he felt they took reasonable steps to put matters right. 
Mr R didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is about a claim Mr R says was poorly handled. As such, the 
underwriter of the policy (in this case, Aviva) is responsible for the complaint. So, although 
Mr R thinks it should be against the entity that handled the claim and responded to his 
complaint  under delegated authority  Aviva is ultimately responsible here.  
Returning to the crux of the matter, and I understand why Mr R feels let down by Aviva. I 
agree he was at times. They failed to send a gas engineer to attend which resulted in further 
visits, delays, some poor communication, and a lack of heating and hot water for five days. 
Mr R says had Aviva sent a gas engineer for the first visit, the claim would have been 
resolved in 24 hours, rather than five days. I understand why he says this, although that 
might not have been the case. Its difficult to say with any certainty what would have 
happened. But, generally a first visit is for an engineer to attend to diagnose a problem and 
alleviate the immediate emergency. And although they may attempt to resolve the claim 
during the first visit, that isnt always possible, and further visits are required  as they were 
here. 
Where I think Aviva let Mr R down, however, was their failure to send a gas engineer despite 
Mr R requesting this, and the delays this caused. I also think there was a lack of 
communication at times which would have added to Mr Rs frustration. 
The claim was eventually resolved five days after Mr R reported it. I understand why Mr R 
thinks this period was unacceptable for him, and avoidable. So, Im in agreement some 
compensation was due to Mr R in respect of this. Aviva paid Mr R £100 compensation. 
I acknowledge this would have been a frustrating period for Mr R. However, whilst I agree 
Aviva let him down at times, I find £100 compensation overall to be fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate, to recognise the impact the claim handling had on him. I think Aviva took 
reasonable steps to recognise the way things were handled, and the impact this had on Mr 
R. So, I wont be requiring Aviva to do anything further. 
Mr R also thinks the policy is misleading as it says Aviva offer 24/7 support. He says this 
suggests engineers are available always. But the policy  in my view  states a helpline is 
available 24/7 for policyholders to call if support is needed. It doesnt promise engineers to 
be available always, so I dont agree with Mr R on this point. 
I accept my decision will disappoint Mr R. But my decision ends what we  in attempting to 
resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman