DRN-4518099
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system with a voltage optimiser and heating control unit (the system).
What happened
In 2018, Mr H bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over ten years.
In 2022, Mr H engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent Shawbrook 
a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system or breached its contract with 
Mr H because:
Mr H had been promised the system would produce benefits estimated at £701.80 in 
year one.
Mr H had received much less benefit than this.
If Mr H had understood how little benefit he would receive he wouldnt have agreed to 
the purchase.
Shawbrook rejected the claim. It said that P clearly explained the estimated benefits of the 
system and there had been no misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Mr H didnt accept this, so made a complaint about Shawbrooks decision. Shawbrook 
rejected the complaint, so Mr H asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into what 
had happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr H remained unhappy, so Ive 
been asked to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was not 
planning to uphold this complaint. Neither Shawbrook nor Mr H has responded by the 
deadline, so this final decision is in line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under section 75 of the Act. So, I have considered this section 
in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have read all of the CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into 
account when making my decision.
The quote
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr H during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
him at that time and the CMC has provided a copy of it to us. So, I think the quote provides 
important evidence of what was likely discussed before Mr H agreed to the purchase. So, 
Ive thought about this alongside what Mr Hs recollections.
I think the quote is clear in that the benefits of the system will be obtained through:
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments for electricity generated by the solar panels and 
electricity exported to the grid.
Electricity savings from:
oUsing electricity generated by the solar panels, which means less electricity 
would be purchased from Mr Hs electricity supplier.
oElectricity savings due to the voltage optimiser.
oGas savings due to the heating control unit.
The quote provided estimates of the benefits that Mr H could receive. I think it is clear that 
these were estimates given they are generally described as such in the quote (for example 
there is a prominent table entitled Estimated performance over 25 years) and the CMC has 
described them as estimates in the letter of claim. So, I think Mr H ought to have understood 
that.
There is nothing in the quote to indicate the estimated benefits were guaranteed beyond the 
first-year FIT income. And I think it is unlikely that the sales representative wouldve 
represented the estimated benefits as being guaranteed.
It seems more likely that Mr H wouldve been told the benefits of the system over time would 
exceed what he paid for it  since that is likely to be the case. 
Mr H no longer benefits from the system
I understand that Mr H no longer lives at the property and does not benefit from any savings 
the system generates. But he has confirmed that was unexpected and was not anticipated at 
the time of the sale. While unfortunate for Mr H, it is not something that has any bearing on 
my decision.
Were the estimated benefits in the quote a misrepresentation
I understand that Ps methods of estimating benefits were checked by an industry body. So, 
it appears that the estimates were likely in line with good industry practice at the time. I have 
also looked at the assumptions used to calculate the estimates and I do not think they were 
unreasonable.
In terms of the FIT benefits, I can see that in the first year the quote estimated that Mr H 
would receive income of £165.43. The FIT statements provided show that the system 
generated significantly more electricity than expected in the first year, and Mr H received 
around £300 income from the FIT scheme in that time  significantly more than estimated in 
the quote. So, in terms of FIT income it seems clear that Mr H received more than expected and there was no misrepresentation in terms of what FIT income he could receive.
In terms of savings, I think this is more difficult to estimate. This is because the savings will 
depend on how electricity is used in the home. That is beyond Ps control. But the estimates 
appear to be based on reasonable assumptions. So, even if the savings realised were less 
than estimated, I would not consider that to be a misrepresentation. Nor would I think it was 
a breach of contract given the estimated savings were estimates and were not guaranteed.
Summary
Overall, I am not persuaded that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the 
part of P such that Shawbrook should not have rejected Mr Hs claim. So, I dont think 
Shawbrook has done anything wrong by rejecting the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman