DRN-2137852
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr S. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out to cover a loan which started in 1999, and 
then another when the loan was refinance in 2001. Each time, the PPI was paid for with a 
single premium, which was added to the total of the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mr S says he was not given proper clear information about the PPI and he didnt realise he 
even had it. He says he never knowingly took out the PPI. He says he was young and still 
living at home with his parents and had very few outgoings, and so never had a need for the 
insurance. 
Im conscious that this did all happen a long time ago  roughly 20 years ago. And I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult 
to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything Mr S remembers or thinks was likely. 
I have seen the loan agreements that Mr S signed in 1999 and 2001; and the application 
form he signed in 1999. The application form has a section where you tick whether or not 
you want PPI. Mr Ss form has a tick against:
Yes I would like to take advantage of the peace of mind offered by [PPI] in the event I 
am unable to work due to involuntary unemployment, accident, sickness or death.
And the loan agreement forms both clearly set out separately the costs (including interest 
payable) of what it calls Optional Credit Insurance. So, I do think Nationwide made clear to 
Mr S that he was including PPI in his loan; and it does look as if this was probably presented 
to him as a choice. It would then be up to Mr S to decide if the benefits, including the 
reassurance of having the insurance, were worth the costs. 
Mr S would have been liable for over £100 in loan repayments each month, which he would 
have had to keep up even if he lost his income due to unemployment or after his full sick pay 
ran out. Its quite possible he would have struggled to keep these payments up, even with 
the family help he says he could have asked for. So its quite possible that, at the time, he 
didnt want to take that risk. 
Overall, I cant say theres enough evidence to decide the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr S 
now believes. 
I can also see that the costs were set out on the form. I dont know, though, how well 
Nationwide set out the limitations in the policy, including limits on how long the benefits were 
payable for, and what wasnt covered. But, in Mr Ss circumstances, I dont think its likely the 
fullest information would have made a difference to whether he took PPI. It still probably 
would have seemed potentially useful. 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
Ive not upheld this case, for the reason Ive given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman