DRN-2118521
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a caravan he took possession of under a hire purchase 
(HP) agreement with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
Mr F is represented in his complaint by his father. However, for ease, I will refer to any 
submissions made by Mr Fs father as if they had been made by Mr F.
  
What happened
In February 2017 Mr F took possession of a caravan. The cash price of the caravan was 
£16,500. Mr F paid the supplying dealership a £10,250 deposit and financed the balance of 
£6,250 by way of an HP agreement with Black Horse. Under the terms of the HP agreement, 
everything else being equal, Mr F undertook to make 36 monthly payments of £204.42 
commencing March 2017 and ending February 2020  making a total repayable (inclusive of 
the £10,250 deposit) of £17,609.12.
In October 2019 Mr F complained to Black Horse about the quality of the caravan, in 
particular a problem he was experiencing with one of the panels, a panel that had undergone 
two previous repairs that had both proved unsuccessful.
In November 2019 Black Horse issued Mr F with a final response letter (FRL) in which it 
agreed to:
Have the caravan repaired at no cost to Mr F
Pay Mr F £200
In January 2020 it came to light that the required repairs would take a minimum of 16 weeks 
to complete. Because of this, Mr F complained to Black Horse again.
In February 2020 Black Horse issued Mr F with an FRL in which it agreed to:
collect the caravan from Mr F at no cost to him
close Mr Fs agreement with nothing further to pay
refund Mr Fs deposit of £10,250
refund Mr Fs five monthly HP agreement payments made between September 2019 
and January 2020 totalling £1,022.10
pay Mr F interest on both refunds at the appropriate rate
pay Mr F £300 for any trouble and upset caused
consider refunding any costs incurred by Mr F due to the faults occurring on 
evidence of the same being provided
consider refunding any costs incurred by Mr F due to the previous repair taking 
place to the floor on evidence of the same being provided
consider paying for any further loss of use on evidence of the same being provided
Black Horse said it calculated the sum due in respect of the first six bullet points above  as 
of February 2020  to be £12,677.77.
Mr F was unhappy with Black Horses offer and said that to resolve his complaint he was 
looking for:
the refund of his deposit  as offered by Black Horse
the refund off all the payments he had made under the agreement  rather than just 
the five offered by Black Horse
interest on the above two refunds
the refund of all costs and expenses he had incurred in respect of the caravan
Mr F said he calculated the above to be in excess of £20,000.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should be 
upheld, and that Black Horse should:
collect the caravan from Mr F at no cost to him
close Mr Fs agreement with nothing further to pay
refund Mr Fs deposit of £10,250
refund Mr Fs five monthly HP agreement payments made between September 2019 
and January 2020 totalling £1,022.10
refund hotel costs of £36.89
pay Mr F interest on the three refunds at the appropriate rate
pay Mr F £600 for any trouble and upset caused
Black responded to say that it agreed with the investigators conclusion.
Mr F responded to say that he didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and felt he 
should be awarded more by way of compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr F has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr F will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Black Horse doesnt dispute that the caravan is/was of unsatisfactory quality. And having 
considered what both parties have said and submitted in this respect I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same conclusion. So, in essence, what Im required to decide in this case is 
what, if anything, Black Horse should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr F 
for him having been supplied a caravan that is/was of unsatisfactory quality. 
I agree that Mr F should have his deposit refunded, together with interest.
Black Horse, in February 2020, agreed to refund Mr F the five monthly HP agreement 
payments he had made between September 2019 and January 2020 totalling £1,022.10 and 
to close his agreement with nothing further to pay. However, since then, Mr Fs agreement has come to an end anyway and after he had made 
one further payment in February 2020 of £204.42. So, in my view, the fairest thing to happen 
here is for Mr F to be refunded the six monthly HP agreement payments he made between 
September 2019 and February 2020, totalling £1,226.52, and for his agreement to remain 
recorded as closed with both Black Horse and all third party credit reference agencies.
Mr F says he should be compensated more than the £600 recommended by the investigator. 
In support Mr F has made a number of submissions and provided our service with a number 
of invoices. 
I can confirm that Ive considered every submission made by Mr F and every invoice he has 
provided. But Im not persuaded I need to comment on each and every one in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome to this complaint, so I wont.
Notwithstanding that many of the invoices, if not all of them, appear to be in respect of costs 
incurred by parties other than Mr F, I would make the following comments:
I can see that site fees totalling more than £6,500 have been paid for the 2018, 2019 and 
2020 summer seasons and an undisclosed sum for the 2017 summer season. And that Mr F 
suggests he should be refunded one month for the 2017 season, two months for the 2019 
season and all eight months for the 2020 season.
I see no good reason why Mr F should have the 2020 site fees of £2,275 refunded. I say this 
because its my understanding that this cost was incurred after Mr F had raised his complaint 
with Black Horse. In other words, Im satisfied that the 2020 site fees were paid when it was 
known to Mr F, or should have been known to Mr F, that he might not be able to make use of 
the site because of his dispute with Black Horse.
Now its not clear from what the parties have said and submitted exactly when, and for how 
long, Mr F was without the caravan during the 2017 and 2019 seasons. But regardless of 
when and for how long Mr F was without the caravan I dont think its appropriate to simply 
pro rata the seasons fees to a day rate and then multiply that day rate by 30 days (in respect 
of 2017) and by 60 days (in respect of 2019). I say this because some days might be more 
expensive than others and some of the days, or even all of the days, that Mr F was without 
the caravan might have been days that Mr F had no intention of making use of the site in any 
event. So, in my view, payment of £600 represents the fairest way of compensating Mr F in 
respect of this particular issue.
As well as suggesting a number of site fees be refunded, Mr F also says he should be 
compensated for the loss of use. Now I appreciate Mr F was without the caravan for two 
relatively short periods in 2017 and 2019 and has been unable to use it since 
September 2020. 
Now in my view a refund of six monthly HP agreement payments represents fair and 
reasonable compensation for the loss of use since September 2020 and payment of £600 
represents the fairest way of compensating Mr F in respect of any loss of use in 2017 and 
2019. 
In concluding the former Ive had regard to the fact that Black Horse made Mr F an offer in 
February 2020, an offer that Mr F could possibly have accepted in partial settlement of his 
complaint.
In concluding the latter, I would add that again Ive had regard to the fact that some of the 
days, or even all of the days, that Mr F was without the caravan in 2017 and 2019 might 
have been days that he had no intention of making use of the caravan in any event.Mr F submits that any servicing, insurance and warranty costs incurred for the period he was 
without the caravan, or he was unable to use it, should be refunded. Again, I dont think its 
appropriate to pro rata these costs to get a daily cost and then multiply that daily cost by the 
number of days Mr F says he was without the caravan or he was unable to use it. Instead its 
my view that payment of £600 represents the fairest way of compensating Mr F in respect of 
this particular issue.
Mr F has provided an invoice for a tow bar. But given when this was purchased and fitted 
(March 2019) and use of it has been made, I see no good reason to award any 
compensation in this respect.
Mr F has submitted a claim for various other costs including, but not limited to, petrol and 
hotels. Now I accept I cant say for certain these costs werent incurred, but Ive seen 
insufficient evidence (with the exception of one hotel stay costing £36.89) to be persuaded 
that they were. So, in my view (and again with the exception of the hotel costs of £36.89), I 
dont think its appropriate to award the sum Mr F is seeking in this respect. In my view 
payment of £600 represents the fairest way of compensating Mr F in respect of this 
particular issue. 
Mr F has submitted a claim for 6 days holiday. Now Ive seen nothing to suggest these 
holidays were taken unpaid. Ive also seen no evidence that these holidays needed to be 
taken. So, in my view, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award the sum Mr F is seeking in 
this respect.
Mr F has also submitted a claim for a holiday booking made in 2020. But I see no reason for 
me to award the sum Mr F is seeking in this respect. Notwithstanding that those who went 
on this holiday had the benefit of it, the cost for the same was incurred after Mr F was aware 
of what Black Horses view on his complaint was.
I appreciate that Mr F will be disappointed, but given what I say above I can confirm that I 
agree with the investigator that £600 represents a fair and reasonable sum for Black Horse 
to have to pay to Mr F over and above a refund of his deposit (together with interest), six 
monthly HP agreement payments (together with interest), and the hotel invoice for £36.89 
(together with interest).
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited must:
collect the caravan from Mr F at no cost to him
refund Mr Fs deposit of £10,250
refund Mr Fs six monthly HP agreement payments made between September 2019 
and February 2020 totalling £1,226.52
refund hotel costs of £36.89
pay Mr F interest on the above three refunds at 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of refund *1
pay Mr F £600 for any trouble and upset caused
*1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Black Horse Limited to take tax off this interest. Black 
Horse Limited must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr F asks 
for one.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman