DRN-2927783
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr G and Miss M 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr G and Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The PPI started over 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on 
everything they remember.
Mr G and Miss M say that there was no mention of PPI at the interview that set up the 2001 
mortgage, and they were not aware of it until 2019. They say they hadnt had it on the 
previous mortgage. They say that, if they had been aware of it, they would have made a 
claim as Mr G had to take time off work sick a few years later. 
Im taking this to mean that Mr G and Miss M are certain that they didnt agree to PPI and 
that it was added to their account without their consent. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. But I dont have 
that evidence. I realise they would have claimed if they had known about the PPI. But this 
doesnt by itself mean that, at the time of taking the mortgage and filling the forms, they 
didnt agree to PPI, but then forget they had done this. 
So its possible the PPI was added without their agreement, but I cant fairly say there is 
strong enough evidence for me to decide this probably is what happened. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. Ill explain further.
I think Bank of Scotland would have recommended the PPI to Mr G and Miss M, and this 
means we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr G and Miss Ms circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr G and 
Miss Ms situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr G (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
Mr G was self-employed so wouldnt have had the benefit of employer sick pay or 
redundancy payments. So the PPI could have proved useful; and it would have put 
off the time when Mr G and Miss M would need to fall back on any savings or other 
means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mr G and Miss M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Some PPI policies made it difficult for self-employed people to make a claim  but 
that wasnt the case with the terms of this particular policy. 
Mr G has told us about a medical condition which did eventually lead to him being 
unable to work for periods. Under the policy it probably would have been difficult to 
successfully make a claim for such a medical condition. But, from what Mr Gs told 
us, I dont think he or Bank of Scotland would have expected in 2001 this would lead 
to a need to make a claim. So I dont think the PPI was unsuitable on those grounds 
when sold in 2001, or that better information in 2001 is likely to have made Mr G and 
Miss M reject the PPI (assuming they were told about it, which I realise they have no 
recollection of, and may not have happened). 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr G and Miss M couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr G would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr G and Miss M to decide whether they wanted to accept 
the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming it was actually offered to them).
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether or not Mr G and Miss M took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Miss M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr G and Miss M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman