DRN-4445278
The complaint
S complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited (Amazon) suspended its seller account. 
What happened
S director, Ms R, has told us she opened a seller account with Amazon and provided 
documents that were accepted for verification purposes. In February 2023 Amazon asked 
Ms R to submit further documents to complete a Know Your Customer (KYC) compliance 
review. Ms R submitted various documents, including a bank letter and statement, utility bill 
and credit card statement. 
Amazon reviewed the documents supplied but went on to suspend S seller account. 
Amazon contacted Ms R and explained it had concerns over the validity of some of the 
documents provided. In July 2023 Amazon confirmed the account remained suspended. 
Ms R referred S complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt think Amazon had acted unfairly by suspending S account following the 
KYC review as it had concerns about the documents supplied and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Ms R asked to appeal S complaint, so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive looked at Amazons Payment User Agreement that governs how it was administers 
accounts. Section 1.4 says Amazon may require account holders to provide additional 
information to verify customers and their business identities. Section 5.3 of Amazons user 
agreement says it can take the step of suspending account access if it has concerns about 
the account and credentials provided. So Im satisfied Amazons service agreement allows it 
to request documents to complete a KYC review, even if its previously approved the 
account. In addition, Im satisfied Amazons service agreement allows it to suspend account 
access if it has concerns about the information it receives. 
Here, Amazon responded to Ms R and gave an explanation setting out why it wasnt willing 
to verify the documents she provided as genuine. Ultimately, until documents that Amazon is 
satisfied are genuine are supplied, I wouldnt expect it to remove an account suspension of 
this nature. I leave it to Ms R to contact Amazon to request an update and confirmation of 
what it now needs to remove the suspension from S account. However, based on the 
information provided by both sides, I havent been persuaded that Amazon acted unfairly or 
made a mistake when it suspended S seller account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but as Im satisfied Amazon has dealt with S fairly, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman