DRN-2474248
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank, mis-sold him a term 
assurance policy. All references to Clydesdale will include Yorkshire Bank.
What happened
In March 1996 Mr B started a business lending facility (the facility) with Clydesdale for just 
under £130,000 with payments due over seven years. Around the same time he was told by 
Clydesdale that a requirement of the lending was he had life assurance. Mr B was advised 
by Clydesdale to take out a decreasing term assurance policy (the policy) with initial cover 
of £130,000  this sum reduced over the same term as the facility. The monthly premiums 
were set at £44 which Mr B paid up until August 2001. At that point, he settled the facility 
early so stopped paying for the policy which lapsed as a result. 
Mr B complained to Clydesdale in 2019. He considered at the time of taking out the policy, 
hed sufficient security to cover what was owing under the facility in the event of his death. 
So Mr B didnt think he needed the policy and believed it was mis-sold to him by Clydesdale. 
He wants a refund of the premiums hed paid up until it lapsed in 2001.
In response, Clydesdale noted it no longer has records relating to the sale of the policy or 
the lending facility due to the time thats passed. Clydesdale did, however, confirm that at the 
time of sale in 1996, life assurance was a requirement of the business lending facility. So it 
was satisfied it hadnt mis-sold the policy to Mr B.
Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. In short, 
he was satisfied the cover had been a condition of the lending. And that making it a 
requirement, wouldve been a commercial decision Clydesdale was entitled to take. 
Mr B disagreed. He didnt think it was reasonable that Clydesdale no longer had any records 
of the sale and he maintained it was unfair that he was made to take out the policy when he 
didnt want or need it. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I understand that Mr B has raised a number of points during his 
contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered 
everything Mr B has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome 
of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened 
I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Clydesdale no longer has point of sale documents which took place in 1996 with it lapsing in 
2001. It says it retains such documents for a period of seven years. I dont think its unusual 
or unreasonable for a business to only keep records for a certain period of time. And six 
years, or more, is standard practice for financial businesses. I appreciate the policy provider 
was able to provide Mr B with more details about his policy, but all businesses are entitled to 
set their own retention policies taking into account regulatory and statutory obligations.
Clydesdale doesnt dispute Mr B was told life assurance was a mandatory condition of the 
business lending facility. But it says Mr B wouldnt have been required to take the policy out 
through the bank. Unfortunately, it isnt possible to say whether this latter point was made 
clear to Mr B as there are no longer any point of sale documents. But, on balance, Im 
satisfied given Mr Bs own recollections and what Clydesdale have said, that he was told life 
assurance was a condition of the lending.
With this in mind, I dont think I can reasonably find Clydesdale to have acted incorrectly. As 
a business it was entitled to impose conditions on lending. This is an example of it exercising 
its commercial judgement in which we would not normally interfere. If Mr B had been 
unhappy with these terms, he had the option to apply to a different lender.
Mr B says he already had life cover. This consisted of two endowment policies that included 
death benefits totalling £33,000, both of which were due to mature in 2001. Looking at the 
sums involved and terms of the respective endowment policies, I dont consider these 
offered sufficient protection to cover a facility of £130,000, which was originally due to end in 
2003. I appreciate Mr B settled the facility early but this wouldnt have been known at the 
time of sale in 1996. So, on balance, I dont think Clydesdale requiring Mr B to purchase 
another, more suitable policy, was unfair or unreasonable.
I also note what Mr B says about his personal circumstances in 1996. But I think its unlikely 
that Clydesdale wouldve considered Mr Bs assets and income suitable cover. Clydesdale 
have confirmed it normally only takes this into account for affordability purposes, or to inform 
its lending decision. Ultimately, it was a matter for Clydesdale to decide on the security it 
sought when it offered the facility. In this case, it required life assurance cover. And as Mr B 
didnt have suitable cover in place, I dont consider Clydesdale was unfair or unreasonable 
when it recommended the policy to him
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman