DRN-1232459
 
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
January 2004. Miss W, who is represented by a third party, says Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
The policy included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life 
cover. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Miss W, Capital One shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. 
It also shouldve got Miss Ws agreement to take it out. Miss W says the PPI was added 
without her knowledge and she would never have agreed to it.
Capital One has confirmed the PPI was taken out in a phone call to activate the credit card 
which took place after the application had been completed and processed. It no longer has a 
record of the call but it has sent us a copy of the telephone guidance process from around 
that time which it says it would have expected its staff to follow when selling PPI over the 
phone. Capital One says this would reflect the conversation it would have had with Miss W. 
And whilst I cant be certain exactly what was discussed in the call, this document does 
direct the staff member to ask for a customers permission before adding PPI to the account. 
As I have no evidence to make me think otherwise, it seems more likely than not that the 
staff member would have followed this process.
So based on what Ive seen and what I know about Capital Ones sales practices at that 
time, I think its more likely that Capital One made Miss W aware that the policy was optional 
and she chose to take it - even if she may not recall that now.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss W got the information she needed to decide for 
herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.It also appears that the cover would have been useful for her if something went wrong. From 
what Miss W has told us, she would only have around 3 months pay from her employer if 
she was unable to work. But this policy could have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance 
for up to 12 months. This would be in addition to and potentially for longer than, her 
employer benefits. And the policy would also have provided cover for the same length of 
time if she was to lose her job.
Miss W has also told us that her father would have helped out financially if she couldnt have 
met her credit card payments. Whilst I appreciate that having the offer of help is reassuring, 
there is no guarantee that it can always be there, given that individual financial 
circumstances can easily change. 
The policy cost 79p for each £100 of the monthly balance. Miss W hasnt told us that this 
was unaffordable. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI. And from what Ive seen, it looks as 
if Capital One already paid this to Miss W. So I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman