DRN-2178076
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) wont refund transactions of over 
£1,200 which were made using his debit card that Mr C says he didnt authorise.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr C was abroad with some friends. On his first night out, he says he and 
two friends visited a bar. Mr C says he bought himself and his two friends some drinks, 
which he paid for using his debit card. Once hed paid for the drinks with his card and PIN, 
he took the drinks and re-joined his friends.   
Mr C explains he was then approached by a bar worker and asked to re-enter his PIN 
because there was no connection. Mr C says he was not shown an amount he was paying, 
nor asked to choose a currency to pay in. At the time, Mr Cs told us he didnt think anything 
of this and re-entered his card and PIN to make the payment. 
Not long afterwards, Mr C says he went to the bar to buy more drinks and the same thing 
occurred  where a bar worker came to him and asked him to re-enter his PIN due to a 
connection error. 
Mr Cs told us as he was in a foreign country, he thought it was not unusual for the server to 
struggle to connect to his bank in the UK and, didnt suspect any fraudulent activity on his 
account due to the fact he has had to re-enter his PIN in the past. 
Mr C recalls bar staff coming over to him on at least two separate occasions stating there 
was a faulty connection. In recollecting what happened, Mr C has said the second time this 
occurred he recalls asking the bar worker what the issue was, and he was told it was a faulty 
card reader. Mr C says he left the bar at around 2 am due to things he had booked the 
following day.
Mr C told us that he wasnt drinking excessively and says his faculties remained intact 
throughout the day.  
At some point after Mr C left the bar, he realised it had been charging him large amounts of 
money again and again, for transactions hed not made. 
 
On 28 November 2019, Mr C contacted The Co-op to raise the transactions. In the call to 
report the transactions Mr C tells the agent hes been robbed of his money at the bar while 
away. 
For ease I have included a list of the transactions that occurred on Mr Cs debit card and 
have highlighted the transactions in dispute:
Date Time Amount Authentication Authorised/Declined Disputed
26/11/19 1:26:06 £44.03 Chip and pin A No
26/11/19 1:42:05 £201.30 Chip and pin A Yes
26/11/19 1:56:54 £195.00 Chip and pin D  flagged and 
SMS sent to Mr C
26/11/19 2:07:08 £195.00 Chip and pin A Yes
26/11/19 2:45:40 £415.17 Chip and pin A Yes
26/11/19 2:57:33 £947.77 Chip and pin D  insufficient funds
26/11/19 2:58:14 £612.27 Chip and pin D  insufficient funds
26/11/19 2:58:52 £417.27 Chip and pin D  insufficient funds
26/11/19 2:59:51 £203.39 Chip and pin D  insufficient funds
26/11/19 3:00:12 £88.07 Chip and pin A No
26/11/19 3:12:13 £417.27 Chip and pin A Yes
26/11/19 3:25:33 £62.90 Chip and pin D  insufficient funds
26/11/19 3:26:56 £25.16 Chip and pin D  insufficient funds
The Co-op investigated the matter and said it was unable to refund Mr C for the transactions 
in dispute. This was on the basis that Mr C admitted hed input his card and PIN which 
resulted in the transactions taking place. 
Unhappy with The Co-ops response, Mr C referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said The Co-op had confirmed the genuine card had been used to make the 
payments. And when the payments were made, the chip on the card was read and the 
correct PIN entered for the transactions. 
Our investigator confirmed the first payment of £44.03 and fifth payment of £88.07 were 
genuine and not in dispute by Mr C. He told us that his card was in his possession the entire 
night - except for when he was paying with his card and it was in the bar workers 
possession for the short time the card was in the card reader. Mr C also confirmed the debit 
card was still in his possession when he reported the transactions to The Co-op. 
Our investigator added she could see the third payment did flag and that a text message 
was sent to Mr Cs number. While the investigator hadnt seen the actual message sent, 
The Co-op provided a template showing what the text message would have contained. This 
shows the message would have said whom it was from, would have referred to a transaction 
being made on the card and provided the last numbers of the card, the date and time, the 
merchant name and the amount of the transaction. It would have asked the recipient to 
confirm if the transaction was made by them by asking for a reply of yes or no. Mr Cs 
confirmed he received this message and replied to say hed made the payment. 
The investigator accepted that some of the transactions were made under deception but 
concluded that as Mr C entered his card and PIN for the transactions to be successful, they 
were authorised. She thought about whether the bank should have noticed the transactions 
as unusual activity. However, she felt that as the bank had got in contact and Mr C 
responded to say hed made the payment there wasnt any more it could have done to 
prevent the disputed transactions taking place. 
Because of this, our investigator didnt recommend The Co-op refund the transactions.  
Mr C disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done so, my review of the available evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for broadly the same reasons. I will 
now explain why. 
Were the transactions authorised?
Our investigator already explained in her view the regulations that we consider when 
looking at a case like this. 
The regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). They explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised if the 
payer (in this case Mr C) has consented to it. The payment service provider (in this case The 
Co-op) must show the payment was authenticated. But its not enough for The Co-op to 
simply rely on the fact that Mr Cs card and PIN were used, that doesnt necessarily mean 
that the payment was authorised by the account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because Mr C will be liable for 
payments he has authorised and, generally speaking, The Co-op will be liable for 
unauthorised payments. Although account holders can become liable for unauthorised 
payments when they havent met certain obligations. 
Based on everything Ive seen and been told, I dont think its unreasonable for The Co-op
to find it more likely than not that Mr C authorised the transactions. I will set out why. 
Im satisfied from The Co-ops technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine card was physically 
present when the disputed transactions were made and that the payments in question were 
authenticated by Mr Cs correct PIN being entered.
Mr C has confirmed he made the first payment of £44.03 (this was at 1.26 am) and a further 
payment of £88.07 (this was at 3 am) at the bar. Mr C in his testimony has told us that it 
wasnt long after he bought the first round of drinks that he went back up to the bar to buy 
more (which would be the next payment of £88.07 he says he made). Given Mr Cs 
testimony it would appear that it was after both these payments that he was asked to re-
enter his card and PIN again due to the connection error. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has told us  in particular, that it was not long after the 
first round of drinks that he went to buy another and when he recalls leaving the bar. But 
from the timings above, I note there was around an hour and a half between the two 
transactions he says are genuine. And from the banks technical evidence the second 
payment Mr C says he made was at 3 am, which isnt consistent with what Mr C has said 
about when he left the bar or with his recollections as to how quickly he bought another 
round of drinks.  
From the transactions listed above, I can see there were a further eight payments between 
the two Mr C says were genuine. And by his own testimony, he recalls being asked on at 
least two separate occasion to re-enter his PIN. From what Ive seen and been told, there 
isnt anything that suggests Mr C recalls being asked to re-enter his card and PIN to the 
extent of the number of payments above. And even if I consider he was asked on more than two occasions to re-enter his card and PIN due to the connection error, I think it more likely 
than not that he would have questioned this when taking into account hes told us hed only 
bought two rounds of drinks. 
Im also mindful Mr C has told us his card was in his possession the entire night and that it 
was only out of his possession for a short period of time when the card was in the card 
reader. So, when considering the possibility as to whether a fraudster could have carried out 
the payments, I find this unlikely given what Mr Cs said. Further, from the payments above, I 
can see there was a payment attempted at 2:59:51 which was declined. This was 21 
seconds before the genuine payment Mr C says he made at 3:00:12. So by Mr Cs own 
version of events it seems very unlikely a fraudster would have been able to attempt the 
payment just before and, was then able to replace the card before Mr C used it to make his 
genuine payment. 
From the information provided, I can also see the third payment of £195 was flagged and 
that a text message was sent to Mr Cs number. While I havent been provided with the exact 
text message that was sent to Mr C, The Co-op has provided a template message which 
shows what the text message would have said. From this, it shows that it would have 
included the date, time, merchant name and the amount of the transaction. So, Im 
persuaded the text message sent to Mr C would have shown the transaction was for £195  
as this was the payment flagged. Mr C has confirmed he received a text message. Hes said 
that as hed made at least one genuine transaction at the time he thought the message from 
the bank may be connected with the fact the bar workers had said the connection was faulty. 
I recognise Mr Cs personal thoughts at the time about the message he received. But given 
Im satisfied the message would have included the amount of the transaction and that by his 
own recollection he says his faculties were intact throughout the day, Im persuaded Mr C 
would have understood the message he received and, he agrees he responded to it. It 
follows that I dont think its more likely than not that Mr C wouldve replied to the message to 
say hed made the payment if hed not made a payment for that amount. 
Id like to assure Mr C that I dont dispute what he has said in relation to what he was told 
regarding a connection error/ the machine being faulty. But when taking the above into 
consideration along with what Mr C has told us, there are inconsistencies  for example, the 
number of payments between the two genuine payments made by Mr C dont appear 
plausible given his recollection as to how many times the connection error occurred. The fact 
Mr C says he left the bar at 2 am yet the second transaction he confirmed hed made was at 
3 am  an hour after Mr C recalls leaving. There is also Mr Cs reply to the text message 
sent for the flagged payment of £195 which he replied to say was him. 
I am mindful from the transactions listed above that there were a number of payments which 
were declined between 2.57 am and 2.59 am. I have thought about the possibility as to 
whether the bar took advantage of Mr C. Having done so, I dont think that this is more likely 
than not what happened here. I say this because, this doesnt appear to be plausible given 
what Mr C has told us happened. As Ive explained above, Mr C told us that his card was 
only out of his possession for a short space of time whilst it was in the reader. And so, it is 
unclear as to how the bar workers would have had the opportunity to obtain his card and PIN 
without his knowledge based on what hes said. Further when looking at the series of 
transactions, Mr C responded positively to the text message he received which said the 
transaction of £195 was him. In responding to the text message, Mr C had confirmed that he 
was at the venue and that he was spending there. By Mr Cs own testimony it doesnt 
support the card and PIN being out of his control or disclosed to someone else. It follows 
that on balance, Im not persuaded it is more likely than not that the bar was able to gain 
access to Mr Cs card and PIN to use them to make transactions without his knowledge. While I accept Mr C might have made the payments under the deception that there was a 
connection error- all the payments above were made using Mr Cs card and PIN. I also 
recognise Mr Cs told us the card machine didnt show an amount he was paying, yet despite 
this he does accept that he entered his card and PIN. So, Im afraid under the PSRs 2017 
Mr C is liable for the transactions. Id like to assure Mr C that Ive carefully considered 
everything he has told us about what happened, but for the reasons Ive explained above -  
given his own testimony, I think it is more likely than not that he agreed the transactions 
could be made and that on balance he consented to the transactions. 
Mr C has commented it was obvious from his typical expenditure that he never spends this 
amount of money in a bar/restaurant or in-fact generally. Ive thought about this carefully. But 
when taking into account Mr C replied to the bank in relation to the flagged payment, Im 
satisfied in doing so he confirmed he was there, at the bar and that he was making 
payments. Following this, I cant safely say The Co-op ought to have had any further 
concerns that Mr C was at risk of financial harm.   
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I hope he understands why I have 
reached the decision I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman