DRN-3796992
The complaint
Miss D complains the Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile didnt let her know about 
changes it would be making to its online security processes. Miss D also complains that the 
new process isnt safe, that shes had problems with it and that Smile hasnt made 
reasonable adjustments for her.
What happened
Miss D has an account with Smile with a debit card. Shes told us that shes autistic and 
finds it difficult to remember passwords, particularly long ones.
In July 2022 Miss D wanted to buy an item online using her Smile debit card and was asked 
for her full password in order to complete the transaction. She says she was surprised by 
this as shed always been told not to give out her full password, so she called Smile. Smile 
confirmed that it had updated its processes and that going forwards she might be asked to 
give out her full password. Miss D didnt think this was particularly safe and said that Smile 
hadnt let her know about the changes.
Miss D called Smile after trying to buy the item online to say that she was having problems 
doing so. After several calls  one of which involved changing Miss Ds password to a longer 
one and one of which involved making sure Smile had changed the password correctly  
Miss D was able to buy the item online she wanted to buy. But she was unhappy with 
several things Smile had said and done and complained.
Smile investigated Miss Ds complaints but didnt uphold them. It said that it had made 
changes to its security processes in order to implement strong customer authentication and 
that this meant Miss D had to change her password as it was too short. It also said that it 
had changed Miss Ds password to the one shes asked for and that shed missed one digit 
out. Miss D had, as a result, been unable to pass security until this mistake was identified. 
Smile said that it had notified all of its customers of the changes to its processes, and that 
the changes meant shopping online with its card was now more secure. Miss D didnt agree 
with Smile and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint and said that they didnt think Smile 
had done anything wrong. Miss D disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
So, I looked into her complaint. Last month, I issued a provisional decision saying that I was 
minded to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D was happy with my provisional decision saying 
that Id heard and understood her. Smile didnt agree with my uphold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D wanted to buy an item online and was asked for her full password. I accept that she 
was genuinely surprised when this happened as thats not something shed been asked for 
before. Miss D  quite sensibly  called Smile to check that this wasnt a fraud as shed 
always been told never to give her password out in full. Ive listened to that call. Smile 
confirmed that it had updated its security processes and that she would sometimes be asked 
for her full password. Smile says it notified its customers about these changes in a number 
of ways. Im satisfied Smile took steps to notify its customers. Equally, Im satisfied Miss D 
hadnt seen any of these notifications at the time, and that she was genuinely surprised.
Miss D called Smile again later on that day saying that she was having problems with her 
Verified by Visa password as shed not used it for some time. Smile looked into this and said 
that her password would need updating as it was 8 digits long and it now needed to be 
between 12 and 24 digits long. Some of the information Smile gave Miss D wasnt quite 
right. Miss D hasnt complained about that  shes complained about the fact that she was 
told shed need to say what she wanted her new password to be there and then over the 
phone. She wasnt given the option of being sent a link. Miss D has told us that being asked 
to disclose her full password to a member of Smiles staff and to decide a password there 
and then caused her a lot of anxiety and stress. Ive listened to the call in question and I 
accept what Miss D has said. Im satisfied that she was struggling with the password she 
already had, and that the idea of having to come up with an even longer one and to do so 
there and then and disclose it to a member of staff would have caused her lots of anxiety 
and stress. She also had a meeting later on that day and was under time pressure.
Miss D came up with a new password and disclosed it to the member of staff. Unfortunately, 
when she gave the password to the member of staff, so that they could type it in, Miss D 
missed out one digit. Ive heard Miss D on another call get her password wrong  again 
when under pressure. I can, therefore, understand why she was unhappy being put on the 
spot in the way she was  in the circumstances its not entirely surprising she missed out a 
digit. The fact that she did meant Miss D had another unsuccessful attempt at buying the 
item she wanted to. And that Miss D ended up calling again, at which point she discovered 
the password the member of staff had typed in didnt have one of the digits she intended. I 
think all of that could have been avoided had Smile handled the situation appropriately, 
taking Miss Ds circumstances into account. Smile said in response to my provisional 
decision that I didnt agree Miss D was pressurised into giving a password on the call. Smile 
has said that the member of staff was patient and sympathetic and didnt put Miss D under 
pressure. Ive thought about what Smile has said, but I dont agree. Im satisfied that Miss D 
felt under pressure to come up with a new password there and then.
problems Miss D had when she complained
Miss D complained and asked for a copy of the call shed had where shed been asked to 
change her password to be sent to her. Smile said that if she wanted a recording of the call 
thered be a charge. Alternatively, it could send her a transcript which could take up to eight 
weeks. Miss D wasnt happy with this and asked Smile to send her the outcome of her 
complaint by email instead. Smile initially told Miss D that this wasnt possible so she asked 
Smile to send her the outcome of her complaint in a coloured envelope or with writing on the 
outside so she would recognise the response when it came. Smile said it couldnt do this. 
Miss D was unhappy with this too, and after complaining more was told that the outcome of 
her complaint could in fact be emailed to her.
Ive listened to the call that the member of staff who was dealing with Miss D had about her 
complaint, and the call where that member of staff got help on the ways in which the 
response to the complaint could be sent out. Its clear that Smile is able to send responses 
to complaints by email and, more importantly, that this is easy to do. As I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, its unfortunate that the member of staff who was dealing with Miss D 
didnt know this, that Miss D had to spend quite a bit of time on the phone waiting for a basic 
request to be agreed and that when the member of staff who she was speaking to confirmed 
that this could be done that they emphasised that this had been done as an exception for her. They made Miss D feel as if she was asking for something special and made her feel 
she had to push when what she was asking should have been simple and straightforward. I 
agree with Miss D that the attitude of the response was wrong. Smile has said that 
responses to complaints are normally sent out by a centralised post room and that its 
frontline staff dont have the option of sending responses by email. Smile has said that this is 
why her request was referred to another area. I accept that an email might have to be sent 
out by another area, but I remain of the view that I dont think the way this was approached 
was right. I would have expected Smiles frontline staff to have been aware of this option and 
not to have made Miss D feel as if she was asking for something special and made her feel 
she had to push when what she was asking should have been simple and straightforward.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Miss D  given the problems she had 
using her card online (including changing her password) and the problems she had 
complaining  has been caused avoidable distress and inconvenience. Im also satisfied that 
Smile could and should have done more to help her given the problems shed already let 
them know she has. Miss D clearly struggles with passwords  and was already struggling 
with the short one she has. For example, I would have expected Smile to have given thought 
to a couple of papers that UK Finance has published to help firms come up with ways of 
authenticating vulnerable customers. Those papers talk, amongst other things, about the 
difficulties consumers with memory problems or processing problems can have if theyre 
asked to authenticate based on a knowledge factor  in particular based on a password. 
And they suggest consumers who fall into these groups are offered alternative ways of 
authenticating. Having seen evidence about the impact the problems had on Miss D, Im 
going to award her £250 in compensation in full and final settlement of her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require the Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile to pay Miss D 
£250 in compensation in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman