DRN-3553845
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded, and the default removed from his credit file.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from May 2022, which form part of 
this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning to 
uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought the checks that Everyday Loans 
carried out should have made it clear that this borrowing was not affordable and sustainable 
for Mr S.
I asked both Mr S and Everyday Lending to let me have any more information they wanted 
me to consider. Both parties have confirmed that they accept the findings in my provisional 
decision.
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included the relevant 
sections from my provisional decision:
What happened
In April 2019 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £3,000 for Mr S, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £272 per month over a term of 24 months. The purpose of 
the loan is not clear, although a small part of it was to settle a previous loan with 
Everyday Lending. When assessing the application, Everyday Loans asked Mr S about 
his financial circumstances and carried out a range of checks before approving the 
lending.
Unfortunately, it seems that Mr S immediately ran into difficulties repaying this loan, a 
default has been recorded, and a balance remains.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought Everyday Loans hadnt done 
anything wrong in approving the loan. Mr S disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look 
at his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure 
that Mr S would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out 
in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, he needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loan to be considered affordable 
and sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
In short, yes I am satisfied it did. It reviewed a range of bank statements, both personal, and 
linked to Mr Ss business. It carried out a credit check, and sought information about his 
income as a self-employed person.
Was Everyday Loans right to conclude that the lending was affordable and sustainable for Mr 
S?
In short, the available evidence does not support that conclusion. Ill summarise the key 
issues.
Mr S was self-employed at the time. It isnt clear his exact involvement with a few businesses 
mentioned, but Everyday Loans gathered statements from at least one business account. 
However, as this was a personal loan, it says it wouldnt have relied on them, only on the 
statements from Mr Ss personal account. This is what I would expect. So I have also not 
accorded much significance to the business account statements.
Mr S provided Everyday Loans with a letter from his accountant, one line long, stating his 
income between March 2018 and March 2019. Everyday Loans clearly relied entirely on that 
letter when calculating the affordability of the loan for Mr S. And I accept that it was entitled to 
place some weight on it and factor it into its assessment. But a responsible lender would not 
ignore all the other information in front of it. Whilst the accountants letter suggested a healthy 
annual income, all the other available evidence pointed to clear financial difficulties, as 
follows:
Mr Ss personal bank statements show an extremely low income over the two months 
they cover. Everyday Loans assessment was founded upon Mr S having a monthly 
income of £3,600. Whereas the bank statements showed it to be just over £500. That is 
about 15% of the figure Everyday Loans chose to work with. And, in fact, in one month 
that was almost only the result of a tax rebate. So, regardless of the accountants letter, 
the bank statements Everyday Loans scrutinised in no way support the income used in 
the assessment.
Mr S was frequently over his agreed overdraft limit and Everyday Loans highlighted a 
series of returned direct debits. However, it doesnt appear that it considered these to be 
a clear and important indicator of serious problems.
The credit check it ran showed that Mr S was also over his agreed credit card limit.
Whilst Everyday Loans has been clear that it would not have used the business bank 
account statements on file, I will also mention that those show an ongoing substantial 
overdraft, far higher than the amount Mr S was borrowing, notwithstanding frequent 
receipts into the account.A letter stating a healthy annual income for Mr S does not in itself automatically mean a loan 
is affordable and sustainable. In the round, the evidence gathered by Everyday Loans 
showed a person in significant trouble, heavily indebted, and with apparently little income in 
recent months. The income and expenditure assessment (I&E) carried out by Everyday Loans 
bears no relation to the reality of Mr Ss situation as shown by everything except the 
accountants letter.
I cannot see how Everyday Loans concluded that this loan would be affordable and 
sustainable for Mr S. So it follows that I plan to uphold this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I have no reason to change any of 
them, and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I set out in my provisional decision that my understanding was that the outstanding balance 
on this loan is still owned by Everyday Loans, and has not been sold to a third party. Neither 
party has said anything different, so I direct Everyday Loans to do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Everyday 
Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr S. I remind it of its obligation to treat 
him fairly in so doing.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman