DRN-3745869
The complaint
The executors of the estate of the late Mr G complain that Vitality Life Limited unfairly 
refused his claim for terminal illness benefit under his life assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G applied for his policy through a third party financial adviser on 18 April 2019. Mr G 
didnt make any medical disclosures on his application. However, because of the proposed 
sum assured, Vitality asked that he undergo a medical with a nurse. The results were 
provided to Vitality on 25 April 2018. 
Vitality accepted the policy application with a start date of 27 April 2018. The policy provided 
level life cover of £350,999 for a 15 year term.  
In June 2020, Mr G contacted Vitality to make a claim for terminal illness benefit. He was 
sadly diagnosed with a type of cancer in 2019, which had progressed to a terminal phase.  
Vitality then sought medical evidence from Mr Gs treating consultant as well as his two 
GPs, one in the UK and one in mainland Europe. In August 2020, it received information 
from Mr Gs UK GP which suggested he had a history of anxiety and depression that hadnt 
been stated on his application. So, it sought additional medical evidence from the GP.  
Vitalitys claim assessor reviewed the additional evidence in September 2020. In October 
2020, it asked Mr G for his explanation as to why this history had not been disclosed, as well 
as questions around his use of alcohol.  
On 30 November 2020, Vitality refused the terminal illness benefit claim. It said when Mr G 
had applied for his cover, hed been sent a confirmation schedule requiring him to check the 
answers given on his policy application for accuracy. However, the evidence from his 
medical records showed that he had answered two questions incorrectly concerning his 
mental health and advice about reduction of alcohol; there were records from 2017 relating 
to both those matters.  
On 14 December 2020, Mr G complained. He disagreed that Vitality was fair to refuse his 
claim and he also said he was unhappy with the claim process  as it had been more than 
five months for Vitality to reach a decision.  
He also said that though Vitality took the pejorative view that he had been advised to contact 
Drug and Alcohol Recovery Services, this was not the case  it was suggested he might 
refer himself to that service, but could not do so as he did not meet the severity threshold for 
support or counselling. He also hadnt been referred for psychological therapy. 
On 20 January 2021, Vitality rejected Mr Gs complaint regarding the claim and cancellation 
of the policy. It said based on the information on Mr Gs medical history, it would have 
declined to insure him. And so, on receipt of the claim it rightly voided the policy. 
In respect of the time taken to consider Mr Gs claim, Vitality set out a full timeline of the 
claim process, noting it had acted within reasonable timescales on receipt of the claim, 
issuing forms and chasing medical evidence. However, it did accept that Mr G had given his 
answers to questions about the policy application on 28 October 2020. Despite this, it took 
until 30 November 2020 to reject his claim. For this delay, it paid him £100 compensation.  
Mr G sent further email correspondence to Vitality setting out how whilst he accepted it had 
given a detail chronology in respect of the process, he remained deeply unhappy he was 
with its decision to refuse his claim. He felt the claim handlers had used suggestive language 
and artistic licence to portray him incorrectly. 
Despite this, Vitality would not change its view on the claim. In a further email of 29 January 
2021, it told Mr G that it had not confused or misinterpreted the content of his medical 
records; these had showed referrals to both Drug and Alcohol Recovery Services as well as 
to psychological therapy. And, whether the referral was self-directed or not, it came from 
advice received by the GP and this was something Vitality ought to have been told in 
response to the policy questions put to Mr G.  
In March 2021, Mr G brought his complaint to this service with the assistance of an advocate 
from a charity (the charity). It said Mr G had sadly been given a matter of months to live. 
The charity supplied an assessment from Dr C, Consultant Psychiatrist dated 1 March 2021. 
Dr C said his opinion was at the time Mr G completed his application form for his insurance, 
his statement that he had not suffered from any underlying mental illness or psychiatric 
condition was realistic, because he had suffered from a reactive event in 2017. 
Dr C explained that Mr G had suffered with stress in response to a particular crisis at work. 
He hadnt suffered from any psychiatric history before the major life situation in respect of his 
employment. And, this was in no way connected to his unrelated cancer diagnosis in 2019. 
That the GP offered Mr G antidepressant medication was a form of symptom relief, not a 
diagnosis or implication of an underlying mental illness.  
It also supplied an extensive set of written submissions in relation to Mr Gs claim refusal. I 
will not be setting that letter out here, though I have read it in its entirety. The letter set out a 
chronology of the events up to March 2021. It also said:
Mr G had worked for 36 years in the same sector without any ill health;
however, a particular set of difficulties at work placed him under significant stress;
the trade union at his employer advised him to go off on long-term sick leave;
it was for this reason he sought help from the GP;
he did not realise the GP had decided on any type of diagnosis;
and he did not take the medication prescribed to him, as he was concerned about the 
side effects;
he said no to Vitalitys question about mental health disorders because to his belief, 
he had not suffered mental illness  instead he had been triggered by a life event 
causing him to visit the GP for a limited period;
he had begun drinking up to one bottle of wine per day as reported to the GP;
but the referral to the Drug and Alcohol Recovery Services wasnt because his GP 
advised him to reduce his alcohol intake, it was in response to Mr G being unhappy 
with his own levels of alcohol consumption;
Mr G never considered he was drinking too heavily, and for this reason he truthfully 
answered no to Vitalitys question on alcohol reduction;
it is not accepted that the retrospective underwriting decision would have been to 
refuse to insure Mr G;he was an avid fitness enthusiast who, prior to the issues at work, had not taken any 
time off with ill health or otherwise in 36 years;
guidance from mental health charities suggests that to fail to provide cover is 
disability discrimination if the insurer isnt acting on relevant and reliable information;
Mr G contends it was unreasonable to refuse someone without knowing the extent of 
their alleged mental health condition  something he did not have;
it appears Vitality has gone further then the requirements of the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) guidance on misrepresentation when managing insurance claims;
thats because the ABI guidance says insurers should only ask for sufficient 
information needed to assess whether the insured event has occurred;
and insurers should limit their requests to a relevant time period;
Mr G therefore cannot understand why Vitality seemingly sought his general medical 
records in order to assess his cancer and subsequent terminal illness diagnosis;
to that end, the charity said there was a decision issued by this service in 2014 in 
which the ombudsman had said it is not reasonable for insurers to request and 
obtain consumers full medical records in order to assess claims;
Mr G therefore questions what circumstances prompted Vitality to investigate his full 
medical records;
it is his view that it must have done so in order to find reason to refuse his claim 
based on medical information which bears no relation to his cancer diagnosis;
he also notes that his treating consultant, Dr K, expressly confirmed that his terminal 
illness has no relationship in any way to any psychiatric disorder.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should succeed. He said that 
he thought Vitality had reasonably concluded that Mr G hadnt answered two questions 
correctly on his policy application. And because of this, he considered it fair for Vitality to 
void the policy because its underwriting guidance showed it wouldnt have offered Mr G 
insurance if he had given different answers and further medical disclosures. 
Vitality said it accepted our investigators view. Shortly after the investigator gave his view on 
the complaint, Mr G sadly passed away. 
The charity said it was now supporting Mr A and Mr T, the executors of Mr Gs estate, and 
they wished to appeal the investigators outcome. 
The investigator agreed to pass the matter for an ombudsmans decision and Vitality 
confirmed it had nothing further to add. A different ombudsman noted that this service could 
not proceed until a grant of probate had been obtained. After that, the executors could 
continue Mr Gs complaint as eligible complainants representing his estate, under the rules 
applying to this service.  
In March 2022, the charity supplied a copy of a grant of probate on the executors behalf. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience, given it was necessary to have a grant of 
probate in order to continue the complaint. I was sorry to learn that Mr G had passed away 
and send my condolences to the executors and Mr Gs family.  
I am not able to uphold this complaint, because my view is that Vitality has acted fairly when voiding the late Mr Gs insurance policy. I will set out my reasons for that conclusion below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. Though I know the charity advocating for the estate of Mr G has suggested otherwise, 
that is what Vitality has done. 
I note the charity has referenced a decision by another ombudsman relating to the way in 
which insurers ought to obtain information in order to assess a claim. I dont disagree with 
the findings in that decision. Nonetheless, it had different circumstances. No two cases are 
factually identical; that an ombudsman may have upheld a complaint of a similar nature does 
not set a precedent, nor does it compel me to reach the same conclusion on different facts. 
When it first received medical evidence, Vitality was prompted to review Mr Gs medical 
records. I have looked at the four questions it sent to Mr Gs UK GP to process the claim, 
these were targeted and asked if he ever had cancer, any tests or any other health 
conditions for a period of two years ending with the day before his policy began. 
Mr G had completed a policy application one year prior to the onset of his type of cancer with 
no medical disclosures at all. I believe that in these particular circumstances an information 
request sufficiently targeted to establishing a picture of Mr Gs health in the two-year period 
preceding the policy inception was proportionate, and compliant with the framework given in 
the ABI guidance on claims.
It was the return of this GP request which gave Vitality cause to review the policy application. 
That was because the GP said:
Regarding the period between 26/4/16 and 26/4/18: Mr [G] was seen regularly 
between September 2017 and March 2018 for management of anxiety and 
depression. He was treated with antidepressants at the time. 
It is therefore reasonable that Vitality went on to review Mr Gs records further specifically in 
relation to mental health and alcohol consumption, based on what Mr G was asked on the 
policy application. It said:
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the 
following in the last 5 years:
Any mental disorder, including stress, anxiety, panic attacks, depression, 
nervous breakdowns or eating disorders?; 
and 
Have you ever been advised to reduce your alcohol intake because you were 
drinking too heavily?
Mr G answered no to both questions.  
Though I am mindful of the mitigation put forward by the charity and the considered 
explanation Mr G gave to Vitality in October 2020, I am of the view that these questions 
should have been answered positively.  
I recognise that the matters in 2017 were situational and that Mr G hadnt suffered from any type of issues relating to mental health previously. But that is not what the question asked of 
him. The question gave examples of what Vitality considered mental health disorders, and it 
included episodes of stress, anxiety and depression. 
Mr G was clearly suffering from all of those types of symptoms from September 2017 up to 
early 2018, though notably things had recovered by March 2018; by this time he was 
recorded as agreeing to leave work the following month and therefore noted as managing 
reasonably well. Nonetheless, I believe that when applying for the policy in April 2018, Mr G 
knew or should have known that he had recently suffered from these symptoms. It was a 
clear question, and Vitality placed reliance that he would respond in good faith.  
I accept that the question of alcohol reduction is harder to determine, as only two medical 
records relate to alcohol consumption. On 4 December 2017 there is reference to Mr G 
drinking one bottle of wine per day in order to cope with his current situation. However, 
another appointment four days later where it is recognised that Mr G has managed to cut 
down on alcohol. 
Be that as it may, the record of 4 December 2017 also says, to contact [name of service] re: 
alcohol and hopefully can then be referred to psychological services locally, stop drinking, 
contact [advice service] see Friday or before if he feels its an emergency.  
I consider its more likely, on balance, that cessation advice was given to Mr G by his GP, 
since drinking a bottle of wine each day would reasonably be classed as heavy drinking. I 
say this noting that Mr G was not someone who drank to excess routinely; he gave his 
alcohol intake as 10 units (one bottle) per week when he met with the nurse in April 2018.  
But even if I were to accept that Mr G hadnt made a material disclosure on this question, he 
should have told Vitality about his issues with stress, anxiety and depression  whether that 
was an acute reaction to an event or not. I know the report from Dr C calls this matter a 
particular isolated crisis at work eliciting this period of upset for Mr G, but the question does 
not make any such distinction. It merely asks if Mr G had experienced any of the listed 
mental health disorder in the last five years, and he had done.  
Im also mindful that during the application process and when policy documentation was sent 
to Mr G, Vitality provided clear reminders of the importance of answering questions 
accurately. For example, at appendix A4 of his policy conditions, it was set out that:
When you take out your plan, you have a responsibility to give us the information we 
ask for. Thats because we rely on this information to assess your risk and work out 
your premiums. If any of the information you give us is incomplete, incorrect or it's 
likely that well reduce the value of any claims you make. In some circumstances, we 
may not pay your claims at all. We may also cancel your plan altogether. So, if you 
realise that you havent made a full disclosure to us, please let us know as soon as 
you can. Then we can help you get a valid insurance contract back in place.
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be 
categorised in one of two ways  either, as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it could not have insured the applicant, it can void the policy.
In my view Mr Gs actions fall within the careless category, and I note Vitality also reached 
that conclusion. As Ive said above, in the event of careless misrepresentation an insurer can 
avoid a policy altogether  if it can demonstrate that it could not have offered any insurance 
in the first place. And this is what Vitality did, returning Mr Gs premiums to him. 
This was also an action Vitality took in accordance with Mr Gs policy terms, as well as ABI 
guidance. The policy provisions confirmed how we may cancel your plan if you fail to 
disclose any material facts relevant to your plan or a claim. 
I have seen the underwriting manual used by Vitality, and whilst I cannot repeat the exact 
wording here, Vitality has shown that it could not have offered Mr G insurance if he had 
disclosed the extent of his mental health episode, including his recorded alcohol intake. 
Im therefore unable to order or compel it to reach a different assessment and pay the late 
Mr Gs claim, as that is not the appropriate remedy for this type of misrepresentation; if 
Vitality had known about Mr Gs relevant medical circumstances, it would never have been 
able to offer him life assurance cover in the first place.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for the late Mr Gs family, I am not able to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman