DRN-3942221
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Miss C is being represented in this complaint by Mr S. However, for ease of reference in my 
decision, Ill refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Miss C or Mr S as 
being actions or comments by Miss C.
What happened
On 22 October 2019, Miss C was supplied with a used car through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Mitsubishi. She traded in a car for £100, paid a deposit of £100, and the 
agreement was for £5,012 over 60 months; with monthly repayments of £118.83. At the time 
the car was just over six years old and had done 76,000 miles.
In January 2020 the car lost power, and Miss C took it back to the supplying dealership. The 
dealership say they replaced the catalytic convertor, which they said had fixed the fault. But 
the car lost power again about a month later. And the dealership replaced the spark plugs 
and coils.
Mrs C didnt use the car very much during the national coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown, but 
she said the power fault persisted during and after this time. And, in June 2021, she 
complained to Mitsubishi, asking to reject the car. Mitsubishi didnt agree with this, so Miss C 
obtained a report from an independent engineer. Who said the car had a fault that was 
present or developing at the point it was supplied to Miss C. As a result, the dealership 
agreed to take back the car and pay Miss C £3,000. And Mitsubishi thought this was a fair 
offer. However, Miss C would still have been liable for any outstanding amount on the 
finance agreement (around £730).
Miss C wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that the car was faulty, and he thought Miss C should 
be allowed to reject it and the agreement ended. But he thought that Miss C had use of the 
car until September 2021, so he said that Mitsubishi only needed to refund the payments 
shed made since this date, along with £319 repair and inspection costs, plus statutory 
interest. He also thought that Mitsubishi should pay Miss C £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Mitsubishi didnt agree with the investigator. They said they hadnt been given any 
opportunity to provide any evidence in relation to Miss Cs complaint. And they provided their 
casefile. But the investigator didnt think the information Mitsubishi had provided changed his 
mind. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss C was supplied with a car under a 
fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Mitsubishi are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Mitsubishi can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss C to show it was present when 
the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss C took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Mitsubishi to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, the dealership has said they prepped the car for sale on 9 
October 2019, which included a service. The car was then supplied to Miss C on 22 October 
2019. On 10 January 2020, after Miss C had returned the car to the dealership due to loss of 
power, they say they replaced the catalytic convertor and the spark plugs. At the time the car 
had done 77,460 miles  1,460 miles since it had been supplied to Miss C.
Miss C returned the car to the dealership in March 2020, as shed again experienced a loss 
of power, but the dealership wasnt able to find any fault. At this time the car had done 
78,283 miles  2,283 miles since supply. Miss C returned the car to the dealership in May 
2021, because of the same power fault. And the dealership replaced the spark plugs. The 
car had done 82,814 miles  4,531 miles in the 19 months since supply.
Because of whatd happened, and because the dealership hadnt serviced the car since 
supply, they said the power fault with the car was as a result of general wear and tear and 
Miss Cs failure to maintain the car correctly.
However, Ive also seen a copy of the report by an independent engineer, dated 14 
September 2021. The engineer said that we were able to replicate a fault on the vehicle  
the catalytic convertor appeared to be aged and unorthodox repair had been made to it. 
There was also a fault  with regards to a cylinder 1 ignition control fault. The engineer 
went on to say that the coils packs that had been fitted were a mixture of branded and non-
branded products. In conclusion, the engineer said due to the evidence that the client has 
provided with regards to the repairs, of which had been carried out historically on the vehicle, 
we are of the opinion that this fault was present or developing at the point of vehicle 
purchase and we do not consider that the faults have developed solely in the ownership of 
the client. Miss C paid £216 for this report.
Within the report, the engineer confirmed that their duty is to the courts, and not to the 
person who either instructed or paid for the report. Given this, Im satisfied this report is 
reasonable to rely on.In addition to the above, Ive seen invoices for work carried out on the car. The dealerships 
internal invoice, dated 9 October 2019, shows what was done to the car when it was 
prepped for sale. And, this shows that the spark plugs were changed at this point.
A further internal invoice from the dealership, dated 10 January 2020, shows that they 
replaced the catalytic convertor and spark plugs at no cost to Miss C. However, given the 
comments on the independent engineers report, and given Ive seen nothing else that 
shows me any work was done on the catalytic convertor, its seems likely that the dealership 
actually did a poor quality unorthodox repair on the catalytic convertor, instead of replacing it 
as they said they did.
Miss C has provided invoices from a local garage, dated 20 October 2020 and 3 February 
2021. She said that she took the car here for inspection and repair after two further 
instances of loss of power. She was charged £535.26 in October 2020 for a replacement 
timing chain; and £158.24 in February 2021 for replacement coils and spark plugs.
Finally, theres an invoice from the dealership dated 19 May 2021 when they replaced the 
spark plugs again. And they charged Miss C £103.10 for this.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car was faulty and that this fault was present 
or developing when it was supplied to Miss C. As the nature of the fault caused a loss of 
power when driving, Im also satisfied that this fault made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. 
Whats more, Ive seen that the dealership has had multiple attempts to fix the fault, and that 
this has been unsuccessful. Given all of this, Im satisfied that in these circumstances, Miss 
C should be allowed to reject the car.
Miss C has had use of the car since it was supplied to her, so I think its only reasonable that 
she pays for this usage. However, its my understanding that Miss C stopped using the car 
after the independent engineers report on 14 September 2021. Ive checked the national 
MOT database and Ive seen that the MOT on the car expired on 9 November 2021, and a 
SORN has been registered since that date. Given this, Im satisfied its more likely than not 
that Miss C did stop using the car after receiving the engineers report. So, I think Mitsubishi 
should refund any payments she made after this date.
I also think that Mitsubishi should refund Miss C the cost of the repairs shes had done to the 
car, as Miss C shouldve been offered the chance to reject the car after the failed repair in 
January 2020. This also includes the cost of the independent engineers report
Finally, Miss C was provided with a car that had an intermittent fault and needed to go in for 
inspection and repair on a number of occasions. This would be both stressful and 
inconvenient for Miss C. However, I also need to take into consideration that Miss C didnt 
use the car for an extended period of time due to the national lockdown conditions in place.
The investigator has recommended Mitsubishi pay her £250 compensation for this distress 
and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable when taking all of the circumstances into 
consideration. And I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my overall 
decision.
So, Mitsubishi should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss C, if this hasnt already been done;
refund the £200 trade-in value/deposit Miss C paid;
refund all the payments Miss C has made after 14 September 2021;refund the £848.60 repair costs and the £216 inspection cost Miss C has incurred on 
having the car investigated for faults;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Miss C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Miss Cs credit file; 
and
pay Miss C an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mitsubishi to take off tax from this interest. Mitsubishi 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Responses
Miss C responded to my provisional decision and didnt raise any objections to what Id 
recommended. However, Mitsubishi chose not to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here
Putting things right
Neither party has objected to my provisional view. And I havent been provided with any 
further evidence by either party. Given this, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt now 
adopt my provisional view as my final decision.
My final decision
So, given the above, Mitsubishi should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss C, if this hasnt already been done;
refund the £200 trade-in value/deposit Miss C paid;
refund all the payments Miss C has made after 14 September 2021;
refund the £848.60 repair costs and the £216 inspection cost Miss C has incurred on 
having the car investigated for faults;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Miss C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Miss Cs credit file; 
and
pay Miss C an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mitsubishi to take off tax from this interest. Mitsubishi 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 Andrew Burford
Ombudsman