DRN-3696213
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has failed to refund over £28,000 he lost 
to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I note that HSBC has said that Mr M did not dispute the payments he made to Moonpay. 
However, I can see that he did write to them in October 2021 to dispute these payments, 
so I have therefore included these in my review. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M has been the victim of a scam here. It also isnt in dispute that 
he authorised the disputed payments he made to Moonpay and Binance using his HSBC 
debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer from these 
crypto wallets). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has 
a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr M has lost over £28,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over nine separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ms 
spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating 
that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam
The payments were not of such an amount that they wouldve represented a significant 
deviation from the way Mr Ms account was normally run. I can see, for example, that 
Mr M had previously made several payments to a savings/investment platform, such as 
two payments he made on 26 July 2021 for over £10,000. And given that neither of the 
payments he made to Moonpay or Binance exceeded this in any one day, I cant say 
they would have appeared out of character. I understand that neither Moonpay nor 
Binance are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. But that does not mean that 
payments cannot be made to it, as both are still legitimate cryptocurrency platforms. 
Mr M says that HSBC had committed to blocking payments made to Binance in August 
2021, which was before he made his payments to the crypto platform. However, this 
policy was only in relation to credit cards due to the increased risk of consumers carrying 
out risky activity with borrowed funds. It did not commit to blocking debit card payments, 
and neither was it obligated to, as Binance is still a legitimate cryptocurrency platform 
(indeed, it is one of the largest in the world). So, I dont consider HSBC was under any 
obligation to block Mr Ms payments to Binance in line with its policy, as they were not 
made by credit card. 
Mr M has further raised concerns that HSBC ought to have done more in terms of anti-
money laundering checks. Id like to assure Mr M that I have considered all the relevant 
law, regulations and good industry practice when considering his complaint. This 
includes anti-money laundering regulations, because although non-compliance with 
these regulations is more a wider matter for the regulator rather than our service, it is still 
something we consider when looking at whether a business could have prevented a 
fraud or scam. But ultimately, Im not persuaded there was anything suspicious that 
ought reasonably to have prompted an intervention by HSBC in light of the payments 
Mr M made from his account. So, I dont consider there to be any basis in which the bank 
can fairly on reasonably be held liable for his loss.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, HSBC didnt attempt a chargeback claim 
for all of the disputed transactions, and neither do I consider it would have been under 
any obligation to do so. Mr M used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange 
platforms before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances 
because the company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase 
of cryptocurrency).
I note that Mr M has also made reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. However, HSBC are under no obligation to consider refunding the 
payments under this Code either as it does not apply to debit card transactions, and only 
applies to authorised push payment (APP) scams. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam as well as the impact this has had on him. However, in the 
circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for his 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman