DRN-2944436
The complaint
Miss G complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) unfairly settled a 
claim against her under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
A third party claimed Miss G reversed into their vehicle and caused damage to their car. 
Miss G said her car wasnt involved in an accident. The third-party insurer made a claim to 
AIC.
After reviewing the evidence that was available to them, AIC said on the balance of 
probability, that should the third-party insurer pursue the matter to court a judge would rule in 
their favour, therefore, I believe the decision to accept liability for the claim to be correct. 
Under the terms and conditions of your policy as your insurer we do have a right of 
subrogation, which means we can step in and settle a claim in the manner we deem 
appropriate.
Miss G was unhappy when AIC settled the claim on her behalf. Miss G was informed by AIC 
it was likely she would be held at fault for the incident. She was concerned her premiums 
would be more expensive. Miss G also complained that one of the call agents was rude to 
her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought AIC were reasonable in their 
approach to investigating what had happened and acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy in settling the claim. She also didnt find any evidence of the call agent being 
rude. Miss G disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by reviewing whether AIC has acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. AIC said it could settle a claim in the manner it deems appropriate. Under the 
general conditions of the policy, it states your insurer has the right to take over and conduct 
the defence or settlement of any claim. Insurance policies include such clauses to allow 
insurers to use their experience to take over claims where its likely theyll lose, in order that 
they can avoid costly court costs. Therefore, if AIC has followed a reasonable process in 
deciding to settle the claim on behalf of Miss G, I will say it has acted fairly as it will have 
worked within the rules of the policy and has fairly tried to minimise costs.
Miss G said she wasnt involved in an accident, so I can understand why she would find it 
hard to accept that she was at fault for the incident. AIC said it has reviewed all the 
evidence available. It commissioned its own independent engineers report. It also reviewed 
the third-party engineers report and third-party allegation, along with photos of both cars. 
AIC said the photos of both cars and the description from the third-party insurer (TPI) 
matched the damage description with the claim. I also reviewed our independent engineers 
report where it states: damage to third party vehicle (TPV) at height of 40-70 centimetres 
from the ground. The damage is of a similar height and range that could be consistent with 
the insured's damaged right rear. If the damaged areas have made contact, we could not 
rule out the damage noted could have occurred."
I have reviewed the evidence that AIC had access to, and its conclusion is consistent with 
whats written in the engineers reports and feels reasonable. There havent been any other 
independent expert reports provided that contradict this view, so I think AIC has been fair in 
drawing its conclusion as it has. Whilst I appreciate Miss G said her car was several years 
old and had multiple scratches / areas of damage, I think AIC has taken a reasonable view 
based on all the evidence. Using its experience and judgement, it thought a court would rule 
against Miss G. So, I think AIC has acted fairly by settling the claim against Miss G, to 
minimise the costs of going to court. It thought that if the case did reach court it would be 
likely that Miss G wouldnt win the case. As its allowed to do this under the terms and 
conditions of the policy, I think AIC has acted fairly. So, I wont be upholding this part of the 
complaint.
Miss G was also unhappy with the manner of the call agent. AIC said I listened to the call 
where you state the agent was rude to you and Im sorry if you felt that, but I do not believe 
he was. It was obvious from listening to the call you were upset at the position you were in, 
but I believe the agent was just trying to explain the decision in an appropriate manor. I 
have also reviewed the call in question and I dont think the standard of service from the call 
agent was unreasonable. I think it was a difficult message he was trying to get across to 
Miss G. I think he did this in a reasonable manner and made sure her expectations were 
properly managed. So, I wont be upholding this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman