DRN-3145773
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Legal & General Assurance Society 
Limited in respect of his workplace pension.
What happened
Mr G has a workplace pension which is administered by Legal & General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G). In late April 2020 Mr G contacted L&G to request verification of contributions 
paid certificates (VCPC) for the whole year 2019/20 and 2020/21 to date. He says the 
information was important and urgent as he needed it for a DWP tribunal. 
L&G provided Mr G with a unit valuation rather than the VCPC hed asked for. And then he 
experienced difficulties in communicating with L&G by phone or email. On 4 May L&G 
apologised for providing the wrong information which they said had arisen due to human 
error and systems problems. They paid £30 and told Mr G the information would be sent by 
5 May 2020.
On 6 May 2020 Mr G told L&G the deadline by which he needed this information was the 
following day and it hadnt yet arrived. He experienced further difficulties getting through. 
On 7 May 2020 with the matter still unresolved Mr G complained, requesting a full 
explanation, an apology, the documents he needed without delay and financial recompense 
for the inconvenience. He also said that following the initial tribunal hearing he now needed 
VCPCs for every tax year from 2014 onwards to be emailed ASAP but because he already 
had some of the information he asked for a call to discuss his requirements. Based on this 
and previous experiences he felt there were systemic and training issues at L&G which 
needed to be looked into and its complaint handling was poor. He also made a Subject 
Access Request (SAR). 
L&G upheld the complaint. They said the earliest record they could find of Mr Gs request 
was 29 April 2020 but admitted its agent had requested the wrong documents. Once the 
correct document was requested thered been some systems issues which their IT 
department couldnt resolve, and they acknowledged Mr G hadnt been kept updated. Mr G 
was told the VCPCs for 2014 onwards would be sent by secure email and the SAR had been 
forwarded to the appropriate department. They explained their teams were adapting to 
taking calls from home as a result of the pandemic. They apologised for the poor service so 
paid an additional £70, making a total of £100.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he complained to this service. One of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint but didnt uphold it, as he thought L&G had done enough to put things right. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision although he didnt specify what he disagreed with. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2021, as since the investigator issued 
his view L&G provided us with information relating to two further complaints made by Mr G 
about his workplace pension. These were another instance of being provided with incorrect 
information and the delay in amending his contribution direct debit. L&G paid £100 and £50 
for these issues respectively. So I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to comment 
before I finalised the decision.
Provisional decision
 
In my provisional decision I made the following points (in summary):
The role of this service
We arent the industry regulator, thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), but 
that body looks at wide-ranging issues impacting many consumers rather than 
individual complaints. 
We dont have the power to punish businesses for the mistakes they make or to 
comment on their commercial decision making or the way they choose to run things. 
We look at individual complaints which have caused someone a financial loss and 
consider whether we think the business has acted fairly. 
This means we cant look into the systemic issues Mr G believes exist at L&G, or 
problems hes had in the past which dont form part of this complaint. 
The wider context of Mr Gs request
Mr Gs original was made in April 2020 which was the start of the pandemic, shortly 
after the government had told businesses all staff should work from home. 
Businesses had to adapt quickly to an unprecedented situation and arrange for staff 
to access their systems and data and to take customer calls from home. 
Many businesses saw resourcing challenges combined with increased customer 
demand due to market volatility and changes in their circumstances.  
This inevitably and understandably meant things didnt always go as smoothly as 
they should. 
Mr G says hes been working from home, but his company has provided a better 
service than L&G, but thats not something I can consider when looking into his 
complaint. 
The parameters of the complaint
L&G accepted Mr G received a poor service and paid compensation for that;
My role is to look whether I think L&G has done enough to put things right. 
Mr G was unhappy at L&Gs complaint handling and in particular that his complaint 
wasnt resolved after three weeks. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so its not something I can look at or 
award compensation for. 
But according to the FCAs dispute resolution (DISP) rules, businesses have a 
maximum of eight weeks after which time a complaint can be referred to this service 
at that point. 
L&G issued its FRL to Mr G on 18 May 2020 which was well within eight weeks since 
he raised the complaint. So while it might have been slower response that Mr G 
hoped for, it was issued within the timescale permitted in the rules. 
Mr G had made three complaints about his workplace pension, so I set them out individually. 
The request for proof of contributions (VCPC) in April 2020
Mr G says he made his initial request by phone on or around Saturday 25 April 
2020. 
L&Gs records show it was first raised on 29 April 2020. 
Mr G told L&G on 5 May 2020 that he needed the information the next day, which 
was a tight timescale even if the request was made on 25 April 2020;
L&G admitted its agent requested a unit valuation not the VCPC Mr G asked for. This was compounded by systems issues, which were frustrating particularly as the 
information was needed for something as important as a tribunal.
Id seen nothing to show L&G were aware of the importance or time-critical nature of 
the request. 
But even if they were, I think the short timescale and the additional complications 
relating to adapting to the pandemic meant there was always the risk the information 
wouldnt be available in time. 
The information back to 2014 was sent by secure email without calling Mr G first as 
hed requested;
Given the likely constraints of making outbound calls from home I thought this was 
reasonable; 
L&G apologised and paid £100. Without evidence of additional impact other than 
inconvenience I think this was fair compensation;
The request for proof of contributions (VCPC) in October 2020
Mr G had requested VCPC for the current tax year (2020/21) to date, but L&G 
provided him with information relating to the 2019/20 tax year, which is essentially 
the same complaint as Mr G brought to this service;
L&G admitted the document hadnt been checked before it was sent to him. 
L&G paid a further £100 for this which I thought was fair.  
The delay in amending Mr Gs direct debit 
In February 2021 Mr G asked L&G to increase his monthly contributions direct debit 
from £1,000 to £1,750. 
Around the same time Mr G received a letter triggered by his online request to 
change his retirement date. The letter was sent in error and didnt relate to the 
change of direct debit, so he was told to ignore it. 
Mr G complained about the letter and about the instruction not being amended in 
time for the February payment, which he said caused him investment loss. 
He also said when he phoned to make a complaint about this he was cut off. 
L&G admitted the letter was sent in error and also apologised that the direct debit 
wasnt amended until 3 March 2021 when Mr G had requested it in time for the 
February payment. They explained their teams were struggling with increased 
workloads and reduced resources arising from working from home. 
Mr G was told he could make an additional payment of £750 to catch up for February 
if he wished. And if he did that L&G would adjust his plan for any investment loss. 
L&G said its records showed the call Mr G referred to was dropped on his side not 
theirs. But they paid Mr G £50 for the customer service issue. 
I thought L&Gs offer to make up any investment loss if Mr G made the catchup 
payment plus £50 was fair. 
Provisional conclusion
I understood why Mr G was dissatisfied with L&Gs administration of his workplace 
pension. 
Hed had a frustrating experience compounded by difficulties in contacting L&G and 
the limitations to the service they were able to offer due to the pandemic. 
Particularly as the information was needed for a tribunal which must have been a 
stressful experience in itself. 
I wasnt persuaded L&Gs failure to respond to Mr Gs SAR within the statutory 
timescale warranted additional compensation, and the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) is the appropriate body for such matters.
For each of the issues L&G has apologised, provided an explanation and paid Mr G a 
total of £250 in compensation so I didnt think it needed to do anything more. I invited the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr G or L&G responded to the provisional decision. 
So I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in the provisional decision. 
Which is that while Mr G experienced some inconvenience, the action taken by L&G and the 
compensation paid was sufficient to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman