DRN-2411651
The complaint
A partnership which Ill refer to as W complains that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mrs M who is a partner of W brings the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
Mrs M has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds. Mrs M made a 
claim on that policy to cover her losses arising from her business closure as a result of the 
national Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lloyds declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said she thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording 
for the notifiable disease and denial of access sections of the policy meant that her claim 
should be covered.
Mrs M complained to Lloyds but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain infectious diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mrs M wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathised with Mrs Ms situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mrs M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M is looking to claim on her business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Lloyds acted fairly in declining her claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mrs M took out. 
Mrs Ms policy included an extension which provided cover for notifiable diseases. The policy 
states that it provides cover for circumstances where there is An outbreak of any Notifiable 
Disease occurring at the Premises or which is attributable to food or drink supplied from the 
Premises, or occurring within a one mile radius.
The policy provides a definition for the term Notifiable Disease which states:
Illness sustained by any person resulting from any of the following: Acute 
Encephalitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipelas, 
Legionellosis, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, 
Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, septicaemic), Poliomyelitis, Puerperal Fever, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, or Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid 
Fever, Typhus, Viral Haemorrhagic Fever, Viral Hepatitis (types A, B & C), Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and which does 
now include COVID-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that subsequently 
became notifiable. In contrast, Mrs Ms policy includes a list of diseases which the policy will 
provide cover for. And I havent seen anything in the policy which implies that cover will be 
provided for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, including for any new diseases 
which emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases can be added to the list without 
Lloyds prior written consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover 
to those diseases listed within the policy. 
I have also considered the Denial of Access clause. However it requires there to be physical 
damage to property in the vicinity of the business premises in order for the policy to respond 
to a claim. And as I dont think COVID-19 caused physical damage to property, I dont think 
this term provides cover in these circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mrs M and 
her business. But for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining 
terms of the policy, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman