DRN-1371158
 
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited allowed a chargeback of a 
payment even though the goods involved were not returned.
What happened
D took a payment for £750 from a customer by card in March 2019 and supplied the goods. 
WorldPay processed this transaction under its merchant services agreement with D. In July 
2019 WorldPay received a chargeback request from the customers card issuer. The reason 
given was that the goods were defective or not as described. D was given the opportunity to 
defend the chargeback but this was not successful. So the money was taken back from D 
permanently. D says that even after it involved the police its been unable to get the goods 
back from its customer.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that a chargeback 
had been made under the relevant card scheme rules. The defence put forward by D was 
not accepted. And WorldPay was entitled to debit the amount of the chargeback to D under 
the terms of the agreement. He couldnt comment on the relationship between D and its 
customer. Any difficulty in getting the goods back would be a civil matter.
D did not agree. It referred to the card scheme chargeback manual of over 400 pages. It said 
that the chargeback rules stated that the goods must be available for collection or have been 
returned. None of the parties involved including WorldPay had checked this had happened. 
D wanted to rely on its original agreement with WorldPay from 1996 and not any updated 
versions which had been sent out and which it said would be worthless in a court of law. 
That agreement said that the goods must have been returned or collection has been 
arranged  not that it will be. D claimed that its customers actions had been facilitated by 
WorldPays negligence and that was itself a criminal offence. D wanted a review taking into 
account all the relevant documentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is not a court  and its not our role to decide if any laws have been broken. Im 
looking at what is fair and reasonable taking into account any relevant rules or legislation. 
And in my view D is fairly subject to the current terms of its agreement with WorldPay not 
what was set out in 1996 - and thats especially as it continued to use its service. 
Under Section 6 of the terms and conditions of the agreement D accepts that any 
chargeback is immediately payable to WorldPay and that it will accept any assessment 
under the scheme rules as final and binding. A chargeback was brought under the scheme rules. As Id expect, WorldPay gave D the 
opportunity to defend the chargeback. It says that this defence was not accepted by the card 
issuer because the evidence supplied was not sufficient. WorldPay as a result accepted the 
chargeback. And it told D that its customer -  the cardholder here - had advised the card 
issuer that the goods had been tendered for return which was sufficient for the purposes of 
the chargeback. I think it acted reasonably.
Im sorry to hear that D is having difficulty in recovering the goods and has needed to involve 
the police. But Im afraid I dont agree that this is now fairly the responsibility of WorldPay or 
affects the chargeback. Instead this would seem to be a civil dispute between D and its 
customer. So I wont be requiring WorldPay to take any further action. If D does not accept 
my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman