DRN-3205583
The complaint
Mr C complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) should meet a
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Watford, I include the insurance intermediary that acted as claims-handler,
and other parties insofar as I hold Watford responsible for their actions.
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Cs claim and his complaint is a car first registered in 2006. Mr C
acquired the car in about 2017. In March 2021, the car passed an MOT with a recorded
mileage of over 200,000.
For the year from 10 March 2021, Mr C had the car insured with Watford. He agreed to pay 
instalments totalling about £570.00 including fees and interest. 
In about April 2021, a third party damaged Mr Cs car and the third partys insurer treated Mr
Cs car as a total loss of Category N (non-structural damage). Mr C kept the car.
In May 2021, Mr C reported that someone had stolen his car. Watford investigated the pre-
loss value of his car. That included asking for evidence of its condition  in particular a
receipt for repairs following the earlier damage. In response to that, Mr C provided a 
handwritten receipt. In late May 2021, Watford said it couldnt accept a hand-written receipt.
In early June 2021, Mr C said police had located his car.
In mid-August 2021, Mr C said he had scrapped the car for £300.00. In early September 
2021, Mr C complained to Watford that it should settle his claim for damage caused by the 
theft.
By a final response dated 8 September 2021, Watford turned down Mr Cs complaint. It said
he had failed to provide evidence that hed repaired his car after the earlier damage. Watford 
said that  if the car had been repaired - its pre-loss valuation wouldve been £1,202.50 less 
20% for the previous write-off, a valuation of £962.10. Watford said it wouldve made 
deductions from that as follows:
£300.00 Mr C had got from scrapping the car;
£505.00 excess;
£383.99 for outstanding premium.
Mr C brought his complaint to us without delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
claim had not proceeded because it would leave Mr C needing to make a payment to
Watford. This meant the policy was still live and so the premiums would be payable, the
investigator said.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to Watford on 30 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mr C hadnt provided enough detail of damage to his car caused by the theft.
And  at some stage between early June (when he located his car) and mid-August 
2021 (when he next contacted Watford), Mr C had scrapped his car. He scrapped it 
without giving Watford an opportunity to inspect or to assess his car and the damage 
to it.
So Watford had no detail or evidence to support Mr Cs claim for damage caused by 
the theft. For that reason, I wasnt minded that Watford treated Mr C unfairly by not 
meeting that claim.
That outcome would be the same as under the investigators opinion. But my reasons 
were somewhat different. So my decision was provisional, to give Mr C and Watford 
an opportunity to provide further information.
Subject to any further information from Mr C or from Watford, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to  direct Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Watford says that it cancelled the policy with effect from 2 September 2021.
Mr C disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The receipt for repairs was in the vehicle when it was stolen.
After the theft, the mechanic wrote a second receipt, dated the day he wrote it.
Watford refused the receipt saying it was hand- written.
After he got his vehicle back, Watford didnt ask him for a receipt with details of the 
damage caused by the theft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy schedule, I see that the cover was TPFT. That means third party, fire and
theft. In other words, the policy covered the risk of Mr C becoming liable to any third party;
the policy also covered Mr Cs car against the risks of fire and theft.
The policy wording had a section dealing with theft. It said that the policy covered the
following:
Loss of or damage to Your Car caused by:
o Theft or attempted theft;
So the policy covered not only loss of the car but also damage to the car caused by a theft.From the policy schedule, I see that the excess on a claim for theft was £355.00. I dont
agree with Watford that the excess was £505.00 (£150.00 more than £355.00).
Like most motor insurance policies, Watfords policy for Mr C included some common terms.
One such term was that if he was paying by instalments and Watford settled a total loss
claim, it would deduct the balance of the yearly premium.
Another such term was that if Watford settled a claim by paying the pre-loss value of the car,
then the car would become the property of Watford.
As the receipt was hand-written, I dont consider that Watford treated Mr C unfairly by 
doubting that the receipt showed that he had got his car repaired before it was stolen. And 
even if he had got it repaired before the theft, his car wouldve been devalued by the fact that 
the third party insurer had recorded it as written off. But I dont consider that any of that is 
central to the outcome of this complaint.
I say that because  after the reported theft  Watfords file shows that on 3 June 2021,
Watford received an email from Mr C as follows:
Close the claim, the car has been located.
Continue with insurance
So Mr C had instructed Watford to close the claim and to continue with the insurance cover
for his car. Mr C didnt report any damage to his car in June 2021. Watford didnt need to
take any further action at that time.
It wasnt until Mr C contacted Watford again in mid-August 2021 that he said the car had
been recovered in a damaged state and hed scrapped it for £300.00.
And from Watfords file, I see that Mr C emailed in early September to complain. He said that
he had closed the claim because he had recovered his car. He said that he had made a new
claim for the damage to the car after the theft.
So I consider that his complaint was that Watford should meet his claim for damage caused
by the theft. And I consider that Watfords final response didnt really answer that complaint.
The final response centred on the pre-theft value of the car  which would only be a
consideration if Mr C showed that the theft had caused damage to his car.
In my view, Mr C hadnt provided enough detail of damage to his car caused by the theft.
And  at some stage between early June (when he located his car) and mid-August 2021
(when he next contacted Watford), Mr C had scrapped his car. He scrapped it without giving
Watford an opportunity to inspect or to assess his car and the damage to it.
So Watford had no detail or evidence to support Mr Cs claim for damage caused by the
theft. For that reason, I dont consider that Watford treated Mr C unfairly by not meeting that
claim. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to meet Mr Cs claim or to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman