DRN-2331119
The complaint
Mr and Dr C are unhappy with the fees charged by Lepus Marketing Limited trading as the 
PPI team, following a successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Dr C say they instructed the PPI team to act on their behalf to make a claim for a 
mis-sold PPI claim. And in January 2019 their claim was successful. Shortly after the PPI 
team invoiced then to pay their success fee of 39% plus VAT. Mr and Dr C paid the fee. But 
theyve since found out that a fee cap for this type of claim was introduced in July 2018. 
They complained to the PPI team but havent received a response. They referred their 
complaint  to us.
The PPI team havent responded to our investigator. So on the information hes seen he 
didnt think it was fair for the PPI team to charge Mr and Dr C the higher percentage fee. He 
said the PPI team should have only asked for a fee in line with the fee cap of 20% plus VAT, 
and that they should refund the difference to Mr and Dr C. He also said the PPI team should 
add 8% simple interest a year to the amount.
As the PPI team havent responded the complaint has been referred to me as an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI team havent provided any evidence, despite being asked to do so. So Ive based 
my decision on the evidence provided by Mr and Dr C only. Having done so Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 required the Claims Management Regulator 
(CMR) to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. 
From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of 
more than 20% plus VAT. Prior to the fee cap coming into force on 11 May 2018, the CMR 
issued guidance to all claims management companies. This said: 
from the date of this guidance you should inform all new or potential clients of the upcoming 
change to the fees you can charge. 
Its a pity the PPI team hasnt engaged with us. But I can see in November 2018, the PPI 
team asked Mr and Dr C to complete a letter of authority with the reference ending *053, for 
a PPI claim to be made. Mr and Dr C said they completed the form and returned it to the PPI 
team. And in December 2018 the PPI team told Mr and Dr C that theyd prepared their case 
and would be submitting their claim to their lender. 
In January 2019 the PPI team sent Mr and Dr C an invoice with the reference ending *053/4 
asking for their fee as the claim had been successful. So, Im satisfied on the information Ive 
seen that the PPI team didnt submit Mr and Dr Cs claim ending *053 to their lender until 
after July 2018. And so, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for them to ask Mr and Dr C to 
pay a fee of 39% plus VAT, when a fee cap was in place before the claim was submitted. 
Our investigator recommended the PPI team should have only invoiced Mr and Dr C for its 
success fee based on them charging 20% plus VAT. Ive not seen any evidence of any claim 
being submitted before the July 2018 fee cap was introduced so the fee cap success fee 
should be applied  to the compensation paid by Mr and Dr Cs lender of £13,081.91. This 
would mean that Mr and Dr C should only have been charged £3,139.66. Mr and Dr C have 
already paid the PPI team £6,122.33 for the successful claim.
Putting things right
So, to put things right, the PPI team should refund Mr and Dr C £2,982.67and apply 8% 
simple interest a year from the date when Mr and Dr C paid the PPI team to the date of the 
refund.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Lepus Marketing Limited trading as the PPI team to reduce 
their success fee for Mr and Dr Cs claim from 39% plus VAT to 20% plus VAT. Where Mr 
and Dr C has already paid their fee at the higher rate, Lepus Marketing Limited trading as 
the PPI team should refund them the difference, plus simple interest at 8% a year calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Dr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman