DRN-3092787
The complaint
Mr M is not happy with the way that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have 
handled his claim and that they have refused his claim for accident damage to his car.
What happened
Mr M took out car insurance with Admiral in April 2019. In February 2020 Mr Ms car was 
damaged by a third party whilst parked and unattended. Admiral were notified and as they 
also insured the third party, they agreed to deal with it under the third partys policy.
 
The car was taken to Admirals approved garage and deemed to be a total loss. The 
engineer also noted there was some poor previous damage repair. During investigations 
Admiral were told by a salvage agent that the car had been involved in a total loss incident 
and sold as such to Mr Ms brother for £12,700 in April 2016. The car was collected from 
them in its damaged state on 5 May 2016. In November 2020 Admiral declined to deal with 
the claim as third party insurer and so Mr M claimed under his own policy.
 
Admiral spoke to Mr M and the registered keeper who was Mr Ms sister. They both said that 
Mr Ms sister bought the car in April 2016 for £34,800 from a private seller at his home 
address. They were both present during the sale, as was Mr Ms brother. They said the car 
was in perfect condition. Mr Ms sister could not provide a receipt or details of the seller. Mr 
M said he bought the car from his sister in 2019 for £35,000 although she was still the 
registered keeper. He provided proof of payment by way of a bank statement. 
Mr M was not happy that his car was not going to be repaired and asked for it to be returned 
to him so that he could arrange repairs himself. Mr M complained to Admiral. They said that 
the car was not economical to repair and that delays had occurred because the claim started 
on the third partys policy. Admiral agreed to pay for additional delivery costs. They relied on 
the engineers report to decide that the car was a total loss and that the policy allowed them 
to decide how to settle the claim.
Admiral then declined the claim under General Conditions 9 and 2 of the policy. They said 
Mr M had misled them regarding the cars history and exaggerated the value of the car. They 
also said he had failed to provide all the information necessary. They did not cancel the 
policy as they say it had already been cancelled by Mr M at renewal in April 2020. Mr M was 
not happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy that the claim had 
taken a year, he did not think it fair that his claim was declined and wanted the car repaired.
 
Our investigator looked into the matter and thought that Admiral had acted reasonably in not 
repairing the car due to its value, and in declining the claim based on the information they 
had. He said we could only look at the complaint from when the claim was made against Mr 
Ms policy and that there had been no significant delays since then. Mr M did not agree and 
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority sets out the jurisdiction of our service in the DISP Rules. 
One of the requirements of DISP is that a complaint may only be dealt with by our service if 
its brought by an eligible complainant. Part of Mr Ms complaint relates to delays he says 
occurred whilst he was claiming under the third partys policy. At that point, Mr M wasnt a 
direct customer of Admiral as they were dealing with him as the third partys insurer, not his 
own insurer. As such he doesnt meet the requirements of an eligible complainant. 
However, once the claim was set up against Mr Ms own policy, he became an eligible 
complainant as he had a direct relationship with Admiral. I can therefore look at his 
complaint regarding delay from 10 November 2020 onwards. A final decision on the claim 
was sent to Mr M on 5 February 2021. I dont appear to have full case notes, but I can see 
that Admiral were pursuing enquiries and obtaining statements during this time. Admiral 
arranged for interviews to take place with Mr M and his sister in early December 2020, and 
statements were received at the end of December 2020. Admiral were also obtaining 
confirmation of details from the salvage agent who sold the car in 2016.
 
Mr M then requested that his car be returned to him and arrangements were made for this to 
take place. This was authorised on 15 January 2021. I can see from case notes that there 
was communication between Mr M and Admiral regarding the claim during this time and I 
dont think that there was any particular delay caused by Admiral.
 
Admiral say that Mr Ms claim was rejected under General Conditions 9 of Mr Ms policy. 
This says that We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or 
if you or anyone acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have 
been given a false statement, or any documents which are false or stolen. Your policy and 
all other policies to which you are connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. 
We will seek to recover any costs that have been incurred and will not return any premium.
It isnt for me to decide whether Mr Ms claim was fraudulent or not, but I can look at whether 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when coming to their decision to refuse the claim. Mr 
Ms policy allows Admiral to refuse the claim in its entirety if any part of a claim is false or 
exaggerated. This service thinks this is a reasonable approach as it is based on case law 
decided by the courts. 
Admiral says that Mr M gave them false information about the purchase of the car. I have 
seen the information from the salvage agent regarding the purchase in 2016. This is in 
complete contradiction to Mr Ms account. Ive considered the information carefully and am 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the information from the salvage agent. 
They were able to provide details of the sale with the correct name, address and telephone 
number for Mr Ms brother. Mr M has not been able to provide an alternative explanation for 
this. He simply says it isnt true. 
Admiral believe that Mr M has exaggerated the value of the car by failing to tell them that the 
car had been involved in a previous total loss accident. I accept that this is relevant as a 
previous total loss accident would affect the value of the car now. Admiral rely on the 
information provided by the salvage agent that the car was sold in a damaged condition to 
Mr Ms brother. Mr M says he wasnt aware of the previous damage, and that the car had no 
accident damage when it was bought by his sister in April 2016. Whilst its quite possible that 
the buyer of a car could be unaware of its history, Mr Ms account is that he was present 
when the car was purchased. If this is true, I think it reasonable for Admiral to conclude that 
he would have been aware of the damage. Admiral also say that they were not satisfied that Mr M bought the car from his sister for 
£35,000. I note that he paid more than the purchase price in 2016. Ive looked at Mr Ms 
bank statement and although I can see that the sum of £35,000 was paid, the reference in 
the statement bears no relation to the purchase of a car. The car was also not transferred 
into Mr Ms name as registered keeper. Whilst I appreciate that Mr M says he simply hadnt 
got around to transferring the car, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on 
this information when refusing the claim.
 
Admiral also refer to General Condition 2 of the policy. This says that a customer must give 
us all the information about the claim that we need. Failure to do so could result in the claim 
being refused. 
 
As I have said above, my role is to decide whether Admiral reached their decision on the 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner. Bearing all the above information in mind, I dont 
think that Admirals decision to refuse the claim was unreasonable. I note that Admiral did 
not cancel the policy themselves, but it lapsed at renewal in April 2020. I know that Mr M will 
be disappointed by my decision, but I hope that he understands the reasons for it.
The final part of Mr Ms complaint is that his car was classified as a total loss. Mr M thought it 
should have been repaired. When a car is classified as a total loss it doesnt mean that its 
not repairable. It simply means that its not economical to repair, ie the cost of the repair is 
likely to be more than the value of the car. However, as Admiral have now declined to deal 
with the claim at all, it doesnt seem appropriate for me to make a decision about this aspect 
of the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman