DRN-2977804
The complaint
Mr J says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he was in a debt spiral 
and he thinks that Morses shouldve realised this and not lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected loans Morses provided to Mr J between July 2015 
and September 2019. The loans were due to be repaid weekly. I understand that Mr J was 
unable to fully repay loan 6 and it has been passed to a third-party collection organisation. 
And there was a break in the lending between loans 2 and 3. So there were two distinct 
periods of lending, these are loans 1 to 2 and then loans 3 to 6. Some of the information I 
have been provided about the lending is in the table below. 
loan start date amount term end date
1 28/08/15 £400 34 06/05/16
2 06/05/16 £500 33 30/03/17
break in lending
3 16/02/18 £500 33 07/09/18
4 07/09/18 £500 33 12/06/19
5 12/06/19 £500 33 06/08/19
6 27/09/19 £600 33 06/08/20
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses was acting 
incorrectly when it approved loans 1 to 5. But he thought that the lending pattern itself 
showed the lending was unsustainable by loan 6. 
Mr J didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said it didnt think that four loans in 19 
months was excessive. And the information that it took at the time of sale showed that the 
loans were affordable for Mr J. There were breaks in lending between loans 2 and 3, and 
loans 5 and 6. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr J didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr J had with Morses. 
So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated an individual proportionate affordability check for loan 6 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Mr J, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr J was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr J had had been indebted to Morses, in this period of lending (loans 3 
to 6), for just under 18 months. And the total lending relationship had now existed for 
about four years. Loan 3 was for £500 and loan 6 was for £600. So, it was the latest in a fairly long line 
of relatively high amounts. At this point Morses ought to have known that Mr J was 
likely borrowing to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 3 onwards Mr J was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling a previous one. I dont think the relatively short break between loans 5 and 6 
is enough to consider it a new period of lending. 
So, because of the above factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Mr Js indebtedness was now unsustainable
Mr J had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr J lost out because Morses provided loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr J borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 6 and Morses should put things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 6, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr J loan 6.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debt back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr J having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J. Morses shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded about it 
is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Js credit file. Morses does not 
have to remove loan 6 from Mr Js credit file until it has been repaid, but Morses should still 
remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman