DRN-3588584
The complaint
Mr V complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) declined his chargeback request. He would 
like the £400 he was claiming paid as a gesture of goodwill.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The Chargeback scheme is a voluntary one governed by a set of rules laid down by 
the relevant card scheme. The scheme sets out the rules when for when a 
chargeback is allowed and what is expected of the parties involved. 
Its unfortunate, that in this case, the card scheme rules state Mr V had to raise a 
chargeback within 120 days from the date of purchase. Mr  V made his purchase on 
29 February 2020 but only contacted HSBC to pursue a chargeback on 26 April 2021  
considerably later than 120 days allowed. As the relevant scheme rule in this case 
states a claim must be made within 120 of the date of purchase I dont think HSBC 
were wrong not to pursue a chargeback claim.
I appreciate Mr V felt he should raise a dispute himself first before contacting HSBC. 
This took some time as the merchant had gone into liquidation, so he had to deal 
with the appointed administrators. Thats unfortunate but Mr V  told us he contacted 
HSBC initially in July /August 2020 by which time he was already outside of the 120-
day  time limit, and I understand that HSBC advised him of that at that time. 
I do appreciate Mr Vs frustration, but I cant reasonably ask HSBC to give him a 
gesture of goodwill payment to cover the £400 loss as I dont believe HSBC has done 
anything wrong
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
