DRN-3941047
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) shared his information without 
his permission and closed his accounts as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised a large number of points to our service, and I want to assure him I have fully 
considered and read everything he has said and sent us. In line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the main points of his complaint when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Sharing information
Mr H has complained that Halifax has shared his information across other entities within the 
Lloyds Banking Group (LBG) which includes other financial institutions. He says this occurs 
frequently and that Halifax call centers service all the LBG, which he feels is a breach of his 
data protection rights. 
Ive firstly looked at the terms and conditions of the account, as well as the privacy notice 
issued by Halifax. The terms and conditions state that by opening the account, the customer 
consents to Halifax accessing, processing and retaining information provided to them and it 
directs the reader to their privacy notice for more information. 
Looking at the privacy notice, it says that We may collect personal information about you (or 
your business) from other Lloyds Banking Group companies and gives examples of when it 
may collect information. Most notably, this includes when you talk to us on the phone or in 
branch, including recorded calls and notes we make. It goes on to say that we may share 
your personal information with other companies in Lloyds Banking Group. 
It is not my role to determine if Halifax has breached data protection laws, but I can take 
relevant law, industry guidelines and good practice into consideration when coming to an 
outcome that I feel is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  It is also outside of my remit 
to comment on how businesses are set up and choose to operate. 
Having said that, I think that the information Halifax has shared and received from other 
entities within LBG, whether they are separate data controllers or not, was done so within 
the terms and conditions of the accounts and was done so reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr H has largely referred to information that has been shared following telephone calls, visits 
to branch or complaints he has raised. And I think this information was collected and shared 
in line with the privacy notice as set out above. And this includes information that was shared 
by another entity within LBG which led to his Halifax accounts being closed, which I will go 
into more detail about later. 
Because of this, I dont think Halifax has made an error when sharing Mr Hs information 
across LBG. 
Mr H has said he withdrew his consent for information to be shared across LBG in 2020, so 
nothing about his Halifax account should have been shared outside of Halifax from that point 
on. Ive considered this carefully and can see that the privacy notice says:
You can withdraw your consent at any time... This will only affect the way we use 
information when our reason for doing so is that we have your consent. 
Looking at this, Mr H was only able to withdraw his consent in situations where Halifax 
required his consent to process his information. For example, when sending marketing 
information to him. However, Halifax sharing Mr Hs information across LBG was within the 
privacy notice and therefore the terms and condition of his account, so they did not require 
his consent to do so. And there was therefore no consent for Mr H to withdraw in the 
circumstances. Because of this, I think it was reasonable that Halifax continued to share    
Mr Hs information across the LBG after 2020.
Account closures
Following a review of Mr Hs accounts, another bank Mr H had accounts with within the LBG 
made the decision to close all of Mr Hs accounts across the whole of LBG. This therefore 
included his accounts with Halifax. Mr H does not think his Halifax accounts should be 
closed by an external party and that this was not within the terms and conditions of his 
Halifax account. 
As I explained above, I think that Halifax were able to share information about Mr Hs 
accounts and his contact with each entity across the LBG. I do think that, ideally, Mr H 
should have received a separate decision and letter from both Halifax and the other bank 
within LBG in relation to the closing of his accounts with each bank. Having said that, I think 
the end result if that had have happened would have been the same, which is that his 
accounts would still have closed. I think it was reasonable that Halifax had access to the 
relevant information about Mr Hs accounts and contact with the other bank which led to their 
decision to withdraw their banking services from him. And that this would reasonably have 
led to Halifax withdrawing their banking services from Mr H also. Because of this, I dont 
think the decision to close Mr Hs accounts with Halifax was done so unfairly in the 
circumstances. 
Looking at the terms and conditions for Mr Hs Halifax account, I think that the decision 
made to close his accounts was done so in line with these. He was given 65 days notice, 
which is more than is required within the terms and conditions. So, I think that they followed 
the correct process and gave him enough time to make alternative banking arrangements, 
and I cant see they have made an error in the circumstances.  I note Mr H is unhappy that he was sent a letter from Halifax regarding one of his accounts 
that explained the remaining funds would be transferred to another account in his name and 
it would be closed. But it was not then explained his existing account would also be closed. 
A cheque was sent to him which he then tried to cash in a Halifax branch, but this request 
was denied. 
I have not had sight of the letter that Mr H has described, but I have no reason to doubt what 
he has said. I agree that what he has described does not clearly set out what has happened 
on his Halifax accounts and could cause some confusion about which accounts were being 
closed. Ive considered the impact this has had on Mr H, and in doing so have to consider 
the earlier closure letter that was sent by the other bank within LBG. This clearly set out that 
all of Mr Hs accounts across the whole of the LBG, which includes Halifax, would be closed. 
Because of this, while the later Halifax letter may have caused some confusion, I think it had 
already been made clear that all of Mr Hs Halifax accounts were due to close. So, I dont 
think that Halifax needs to take any further action to remedy this complaint point. 
Mr H feels that Halifax have not paid him the money that was remaining in his accounts as 
they have instead issued him with a cheque. So, he feels they have breached the terms and 
conditions of the account that say: we will pay or transfer money we hold for you or owe you 
following an account termination. Ive thought about this carefully and on balance, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Halifax to issue Mr H with a cheque for the remaining funds in 
his account.  
A cheque is essentially a written order to a financial institution, typically a bank, to pay a 
specific amount of money from one account to another. Considering Mr H had not given 
Halifax any instruction of where to transfer the remaining funds to, I think it was reasonable 
that they therefore issued him with a cheque, which he could then deposit into a new bank 
account. And I think this amounts to them meeting the terms and conditions of the account. 
Subject Access Request
Mr H has mentioned a subject access request that he made to another bank within the LBG 
concerning what accounts were being closed and what standing orders and direct debits 
were attached to each one. When he received a response, it only listed his accounts with the 
other bank and did not mention his Halifax ones.
This request should have been picked up by Halifax and a response should have been 
issued to Mr H. Ive therefore considered the effect not receiving this information has had on 
him. The primary information Mr H was requesting was around the standing orders and 
direct debits attached to each account. I have to consider that this information is readily 
available on his statements, through online banking and telephone banking. 
So, while it must have been frustrating that Halifax did not respond to this request, I dont 
think this has meant Mr H did not have access to the information he requested. And I dont 
think Halifax needs to take any action now in relation to this complaint point.   
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman