DRN-2350951
The complaint
Mr R complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In June 2018, Mr R acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Moneyway. 
The cash price of the car was £8,525 with a total repayable of around £11,900. The 
agreement was for 36 months with monthly repayments of around £330. 
Mr R says he quickly struggled to afford the monthly repayments. He says prior to taking out 
this agreement he was already heavily indebted elsewhere, including another hire purchase 
agreement which was costing him over £600 per month. Within a few months of taking out 
the agreement Mr R was having difficulty repaying the monthly repayments and he had 
fallen into arrears. He also notified Moneyway that hed lost his job. However, Mr R secured 
new employment in May 2019 and settled the finance in full. He complained to Moneyway as 
he didnt think it had adequately assessed his ability to afford the monthly repayments. 
Moneyway didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks for 
affordability. It said Mr R had declared he was in full-time permanent employment earning 
£52,000 per year which Moneyway had verified through payment and deduction statements 
from Mr Rs employer. It said it also completed a credit check which showed he had no 
recent adverse credit history and combined monthly repayments of £501 towards his other 
existing credit commitments. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Moneyway had 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks but found that if they had done, it was likely 
they would have still concluded the lending was affordable for Mr R. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he had such a large number of outgoings it ought to have been 
clear the agreement wasnt affordable. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Moneyway complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr R has been disadvantaged in any way by Moneyways actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did Moneyway complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Moneyway were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Rs 
ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an affordability check. This 
check had to be borrower-focussed, meaning it needed to be concerned with whether Mr R 
could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific circumstances), rather than 
how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the risk posed to Moneyway as the 
lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an assessment of 
affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
The total amount repayable under the hire purchase agreement was around £11,900. Mr R 
was expected to repay around £330 per month over three years. On that basis I think any 
assessment of affordability ought to have been relatively thorough. 
I can see that Moneyway did verify Mr Rs declared income of £52,000 per year by 
requesting to see proof of that income and also contacting his employer (with Mr Rs 
permission). Im therefore satisfied that the checks Moneyway carried out in relation to 
Mr Rs income were reasonable and proportionate.
Moneyway says it carried out a credit check which showed that Mr R had a number of 
existing credit commitments which included a credit card and several loans. Its check 
showed that Mr R was currently required to repay £501 per month towards these 
commitments. I note Moneyway didnt include a repayment figure towards Mr Rs credit card. 
However, this card had a modest limit of only £400 so I think any reasonable estimate of 
what a sustainable repayment Mr R might have been required to make would have only 
been around £40. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit check Moneyway carried out. It shows that the credit 
commitments recorded on Mr Rs credit file were up to date and appeared to have been 
managed well. After taking into account Mr Rs existing credit commitments and the repayments for the hire 
purchase agreement, Moneyway said it calculated that Mr R had around £2,700 available for 
living expenses. It considered that on this basis the agreement was affordable. 
However, I cant see that Moneyway attempted to understand what other commitments and 
regular expenditure Mr R had on top of his credit commitments. Without this information, I 
dont think it could reasonably conclude that the agreement was affordable and sustainable 
for Mr R. I therefore dont think Moneyway carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
I think it ought to have asked Mr R what his living costs were. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear what questions or evidence Moneyway would have asked for had it explored 
Mr Rs expenditure in more detail. Mr R has given us a list of his other regular expenditure 
as well as further credit commitments he had which didnt show up in the checks Moneyway 
carried out. Hes also provided us with copies of his bank statements to demonstrate those 
costs. In the absence of anything else, I think I can place considerable weight on the 
information Mr R had provided to give an indication of what Moneyway would have likely 
discovered. 
Im not suggesting Moneyway ought to have requested bank statements from Mr R to verify 
his expenditure. I think it already had a good level of understanding of his existing credit 
commitments and income, it just needed to explore his other non-credit commitments in 
more detail. Further, there wasnt anything within the application (or Moneyways existing 
checks) that indicated Mr R might have been struggling financially which might have 
prompted verification of Mr Rs expenditure. 
Mr R has told us his living expenses which included rent, household bills, food and travel 
expenses came to around £1,230 per month. Having reviewed his bank statements, Im 
satisfied these figures are likely to be accurate. Im persuaded this is what Mr R would have 
told Moneyway and its what it would have likely found out had it enquired about these costs 
before granting the credit.
Taking into account Mr Rs regular living expenses and the credit commitments Moneyway 
was aware of, Mr R was left with around £1,500 in disposable income each month to cover 
the cost of the hire purchase agreement and any associated costs. I therefore think that had 
Moneyway completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have likely found that 
Mr R was likely able to afford the repayments in a sustainable way. 
I have however seen that Mr R did have substantially more credit commitments than was 
revealed by Moneyways credit check. He had for example taken out another hire purchase 
agreement the month before which had monthly repayments of nearly £700. He also had 
other credit commitments which were several hundred pounds per month. Taking these 
additional commitments into account, I think its clear Mr R couldnt afford to sustainably 
repay the Moneyway agreement. 
Having said this, Im required to take into account what Moneyway ought to have reasonably 
discovered had it conducted reasonable and proportionate checks, which isnt necessarily 
the same as what Mr Rs actual circumstances were.  
I think it was reasonable for Moneyway to have relied on the accuracy of the credit check it 
carried out. I havent seen any reason why Moneyway ought to have questioned what 
information it gathered about Mr Rs credit commitments. Further, many of the additional credit commitments that didnt appear on Moneyways checks appears to have been 
because of how recently Mr R had entered into those other agreements. 
It seems Mr R had entered into those agreements only around a month before approaching 
Moneyway for finance. So its likely his more recent creditors hadnt appeared on his credit 
file yet. And unless Mr R told Moneyway about those additional commitments  which I cant 
see that he did  I dont think its reasonable for Moneyway to have known about them and 
taken them into account. For this reason, I think Moneyway would still have lent to Mr R had 
it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. I therefore dont think Moneyway needs 
to put anything right in relation to its lending decision. 
Did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
It seems Mr R couldnt actually afford to sustainably repay the borrowing, albeit I dont think 
Moneyway ought to have known that at the time of the application. Ive also considered 
whether Moneyway acted fairly towards Mr R when it discovered he was having difficulty 
repaying. 
Mr R got in touch with Moneyway in October 2018 to say hed lost his job and was struggling 
to pay. Mr R was in regular contact with Moneyway over the next few months to discuss the 
status of his account. 
I can see from the notes of the conversations Moneyway had with Mr R that it told him to 
cancel his direct debit to avoid charges with his bank and suggested he set up a repayment 
plan or agree a different payment date. I can see Moneyway also appeared to have 
discussed termination options (at least in passing) with Mr R, however, it seems Mr R told 
Moneyway he needed the car and returning it was not an option. So, I think Moneyway acted 
reasonably in discussing the options available to Mr R. 
I can see that Mr R complained on several occasions to Moneyway about it contacting him 
about arrears and seeking repayment despite him having informed them of his 
circumstances. I can appreciate this will have been frustrating for him. But given it doesnt 
appear Mr R had agreed any sort of formal payment arrangement for the arrears, I dont 
think Moneyway acted unfairly or unreasonably in contacting him. It appears Moneyway did 
so to remind him of his obligations under the agreement, to notify him of the potential 
consequences of not meeting his repayments and trying to get Mr R to agree a repayment 
plan. 
While I can see Mr R was going though a very stressful and difficult time, I cant reasonably 
say Moneyway acted unfairly in any way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman