DRN-4203848
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) refused his claim for a bonus under 
the Refer a Friend scheme. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr B applied to Co-op for a bonus under its Refer a Friend scheme. 
Co-op decided he had a valid claim and paid him £125 under the scheme. Mr B switched his 
account out of Co-op in December of the same year. He opened a new account with Co-op 
in February 2023 and again applied for a bonus under the Refer a Friend scheme. Co-op 
refused. It said hed already benefited from the offer and the terms and conditions of the 
scheme said he could only receive one such bonus payment. 
Mr B complained. He acknowledged hed received a payment in November 2022 but that 
offer had ended and Co-op had then opened a new incentive in February 2023. He said hed 
thoroughly read the terms and conditions and he couldnt see where its customers were only 
entitled to one payment in total, including previous Refer a Friend offers. Co-op maintained 
its decision and said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the scheme. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said the Refer a Friend scheme had been 
operating since November 2020 and the February 2023 offer wasnt a new incentive but a 
relaunch of the same scheme with some amendments. 
They also noted Co-op had referred to part of the terms and conditions that said it could 
withhold payments if they had reasonable grounds to suspect the applicant was seeking to 
profit from the offer. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman for a decision. I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I sent a 
provisional decision to Mr B and Co-op to give them an opportunity to comment. Both parties 
said they had nothing further to add, so my findings and my decision below are substantially 
the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the Refer a Friend scheme say the following:
The Recommended Friend is entitled to only one payment even if they switch more than 
one account to us or if more than one Recommender refers them.
Co-op has said the Refer a Friend scheme has been operating since February 2020 and the 
terms and conditions have been amended on several occasions since then. It said the 
scheme was relaunched in February 2023 and this was not a new offer or a new scheme. It 
also doesnt consider Mr B to be a new customer just because of the change of account 
details as his profile is linked to the closed account.
Mr Bs argument is that the terms and conditions dont clearly say that the scheme is for new 
customers who have not been referred before or who are not returning customers. He 
doesnt deny that he received a bonus in November 2022. But he then closed his account 
and the offer ended in December 2022. He says he was not then a customer of Co-op when 
the scheme was relaunched in February 2023. 
As Mr B has pointed out, Co-op has a responsibility to provide information to its consumers 
that is clear, fair and not misleading. He doesnt think the terms and conditions of the Refer a 
Friend scheme are clear. And, on balance, I agree. Co-op has said the scheme is one 
scheme thats been re-launched and amended over the last three years. It seems its 
intention is to restrict a consumer to one payment throughout the course of the whole 
scheme. 
But I dont think that is set out clearly in the terms and conditions. They simply say the 
Recommended Friend is only entitled to one payment. They dont say over what time period 
and theres no reference to previous terms and conditions or relaunches of the same 
scheme. In my view, the terms are ambiguous and could be interpreted either way. And, as 
such, I dont think they meet the test of being clear, fair and not misleading.
Co-op has also referred to another part of the terms and conditions, which say:
We reserve the right to withhold any payment (or to reverse any payment already made) 
where we have reasonable grounds for suspecting you have sought to materially abuse or 
profiteer from the offer. For example, this may arise if we have grounds for believing that you 
have sought to engage in a marketing campaign to solicit applications from individuals who 
are not from within your family or immediate circle of friends.
Mr B noted that the scheme is designed to encourage its customers to profit from the 
scheme  it offers a bonus of £125 after all. The terms and conditions refer to profiteering 
from the scheme, or materially abusing it, which are more serious statements. Mr B says he 
hasnt sought to materially abuse or profiteer from the offer and hasnt acted in the way 
described in the example given in the terms and conditions. 
For its part, Co-op hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that Mr B has sought to 
materially abuse or profiteer from the offer either. And so, in the absence of any evidence to 
show Mr B has profiteered or materially abused the scheme, I dont think Co-op can rely on 
this term to refuse Mr Bs claim.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I dont think Co-op has acted fairly or reasonably in refusing Mr Bs 
claim for a bonus under the Refer a Friend scheme. To put things right, I think Co-op should 
pay Mr B the £125 he claimed under the Refer a Friend scheme. 
While Mr B said the person who recommended him for the bonus also lost out, they are not 
party to this complaint and so I cannot make a decision on that matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay 
Mr B £125 under the Refer a Friend scheme.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman