DRN-4380585
The complaint and what happened
Mr D and Miss J complain that Santander UK Plc lent to them irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. They would like all the interest and charges 
associated with the loan refunded.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from September 2023, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought the evidence ought to have led 
Santander to conclude that this loan was unaffordable for Mr D and Miss J.
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. Mr D 
and Miss J accepted my provisional findings. Santander came back with several final points, 
which I will respond to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision:
What happened
In March 2011 Santander approved a loan of £20,000 for Mr D and Miss J, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £447 per month over a term of 60 months. The 
purpose of the loan is not clear, nor are the checks that Santander carried out before 
approving the lending. However, Mr D and Miss J have shown that they used at least 
some of the loan to consolidate other debt.
The repayments were met and the loan settled as expected.
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought Santander hadnt done anything 
wrong in approving the loan. Mr D and Miss J disagreed and asked an ombudsman to 
look at their complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Santander is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
this lending decision, including the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
(ILG) so I wont repeat them in full here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient 
checks to ensure that Mr D and Miss J would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in 
a sustainable way, and without undue difficulty. As set out in ILG 4.4 that means that they 
could manage the repayments:
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments
Essentially, they needed to be able to meet their financial commitments and not 
have to borrow elsewhere to repay Santander for the loan to be considered 
affordable and sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did Santander carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Understandably, Santander no longer has full information relating to this loan, given how long 
ago it was granted. So I cannot answer this question definitively, although its clear that basic 
questions about their income and expenditure (I&E) were asked. However, what I am clear on 
is that, given the amount being borrowed and the term in question, I would have expected a 
responsible lender to carry out comparatively in-depth checks. The investigator also thought 
that in her assessment. That would mean verifying information provided by Mr D and Miss J 
and gaining a full understanding of their financial situation. I am unable to make a finding as 
to whether Santander did complete proportionate checks, but ultimately it doesnt alter the 
outcome of this complaint. Either it didnt, and should have. Or it did but seemingly didnt 
respond to the evidence it likely had.
Was Santander right to conclude that the lending was affordable and sustainable for Mr D and 
Miss J?
Mr D and Miss J have provided extensive evidence of their financial situation in 2010 and 
2011, including current account statements; tax returns; and credit card statements. There 
was no obligation on Santander to request any specific evidence, or carry out prescribed 
checks: they only needed to be proportionate and borrower focused. But, in the absence of 
any evidence to the contrary, I am happy to rely on these documents in reaching my findings.
I accept that, even if its checks were sufficient and proportionate, Santander would not likely 
have seen all the evidence of which I have had the benefit. However, what is clear is that all 
the relevant information provided by Mr D and Miss J for this time period supports the same 
conclusion  that Santander could not fairly and reasonably have concluded that these 
repayments were affordable and sustainable for them. So, regardless of the precise nature 
and detail of proportionate checks, I comfortably conclude that it would have likely shown the 
same thing. Ill explain why.
Santander says that the information Mr D and Miss J gave it suggested they had a very 
healthy disposable income and could easily afford the monthly repayment for this loan. 
However, I have only been given a summary of the questions and resulting answers, meaning 
the I&E appears to be very high level, to say the least. I do think the I&E provided a broadly 
accurate amount in terms of their joint income, which was around £5,250 per month. But what 
Mr D and Miss were asked to include as part of their total outgoings, I have no idea. Its very 
clear from the bank statements that their mortgage; utility bills; day to day expenses; and 
amount needed to service debt together totalled a lot more than the £2,500 now cited by 
Santander.
A pounds and pence calculation of affordability is, in fact, not necessary in this case. And that 
is because the available evidence shows that Mr D and Miss J were entirely dependent upon 
borrowing just to survive. There is evidence of financial difficulties in the form of arrears and 
default notices on credit accounts in the 12 months preceding this application. I have thought 
about the fact that Mr D and Miss J have evidenced that they used some of this borrowing to 
consolidate other debts, so considered whether this loan was actually a step forward in 
improving their overall situation.But the extent of the overdrafts they both had on their current accounts fatally undermines 
any logic on that basis. Whilst the investigator noted that the accounts were well run, 
presumably meaning they stayed within their agreed overdraft limits, the fact that together 
they were persistently in overdrafts totalling more than three times their joint income is a 
significant concern. It doesnt look like either of them was ever in credit, and were overdrawn 
to the extent that they had no reasonable prospect of being so. Again, it is abundantly clear 
that they were fully reliant on borrowing to make ends meet.
Finally, I want to reiterate that it would not have been necessary for Santander to gather 
anything like the volume of information now provided by Mr D and Miss J. It is simply not 
possible to conclude that any evidence gathered by Santander could possibly have 
demonstrated that this loan would be affordable and sustainable for Mr D and Miss J, bearing 
in mind the regulations in force at the time. So it follows that I plan to uphold this complaint.
Santander has raised several points, which I will deal with in turn.
Firstly, it says that, due to the passage of time, it no longer holds full lending information. I 
accept that and indeed acknowledged that in my provisional decision, before going on to 
explain about the evidence I had seen and why I was satisfied as to what proportionate 
checks were likely to have shown Santander back in 2011. So this issue has been dealt with.
Santander has also reiterated that the repayments were made on time and there were no 
signs of financial difficulties, which they would expect to see had this loan been unaffordable. 
However, this point proves nothing as it does not address the question of whether Mr D and 
Miss J were borrowing elsewhere to meet the repayments, which would clearly make the 
loan unaffordable under the regulations in force at the time. Given the evidence I have seen 
about their financial circumstances back in 2011, that possibility seems highly plausible to 
me.
Finally, Santander highlights that an Ombudsman colleague reached a different outcome on 
a similar complaint raised by Mr D concerning borrowing from 2007. It asks me to review that 
other case, presumably in a bid to find evidence to lead me to a different conclusion on this 
one. I have no need to do so, given the overwhelming nature of the evidence in this case, 
from a range of different sources, all showing the same thing, as described in my provisional 
decision. And, of course, the difference in timeframe  that is, four years between lending 
decisions  would significantly undermine the relevance of any evidence between the cases, 
even were there a lack of evidence in this one. As Ive said, there is not.
Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
And so it follows that I uphold this complaint
Putting things right
I direct Santander to do the following in order to put things right:
A) Santander must rework the account and remove all interest, fees and charges from it, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr D and Miss J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr D and Miss J having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Although I dont believe there is any, it must remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mr D and Miss Js credit file in relation to this loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr D and Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman