DRN-2734633
The complaint
The complaint is about a secured loan taken out in 2009, originally with a lender Ill call F. 
In 2018, F ceased trading and the loan was transferred to a new lender, which Ill call C. 
The administration of the loan is carried out by Target Servicing Limited on behalf of C. 
In broad terms, Mrs and Mr Ws complaint is about: 
the legality or otherwise of the loan and the charge on their property; 
the provision of documents;
whether F and C are the same corporate entity; and 
attempts to pursue them for payments which they regard as harassment.
However, in a jurisdiction decision last month, I decided that the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was limited to considering the activities of Target Servicing Limited 
since it began administering the loan on behalf of C on 23 May 2018. In essence, that 
means looking at how Target has dealt with Mrs and Mr W over the arrears on the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Ill start with the provision of documents; Mrs and Mr W are unhappy with the outcome of a 
data subject access request they made of Target. In the normal course of events, thats a 
matter for the Information Commissioners Office to deal with. It would only be something for 
me to address if I considered that a failure to provide information impacted adversely on my 
capacity to decide the complaint, and Im satisfied thats not the case.
Any concerns Mrs and Mr W may have about the legality of the charge over their home, or 
the enforceability of a valid contract are matters that only a court could decide. In the event 
possession proceedings were taken to recover the debt, Mrs and Mr W would have the 
opportunity to argue their case about the alleged anomalies in the documentation and ask 
the court to take those arguments into account when it made its legal ruling. 
All I can decide is if a debt exists, and whether Target has treated Mrs and Mr W fairly in its 
efforts to engage with them over repaying it. Firstly, Im satisfied the debt exists; the 
statements Ive seen show that an outstanding balance still existed when F transferred the 
account to C and Target began administering it. F was allowed to transfer the debt; the right 
to do that is a standard term in loan contracts. 
It was up to C to decide who it wished to appoint to administer the loans it acquired; it 
appointed Target, a business regulated and authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to 
carry out that very function. All other things being equal, its fair that Mrs and Mr W repay the 
debt, and reasonable that Target contact them if theyre having difficulty doing so.
Mrs and Mr W have had difficulty keeping up with the monthly payments on the loan; Target 
has asked them to get in touch to discuss proposals for dealing with the arrears. I appreciate 
Mrs and Mr WE find that unwelcome, but that doesnt make it harassment. I understand it 
may not be what they want to hear, and its not my role to advise Mrs and Mr W, but it seems 
to me their interests are best served by engaging with Target in a productive dialogue about 
what they might be able to afford to pay. 
Target should treat them fairly and take account of their circumstances, but first it needs to 
know what those are. I dont mean this unkindly, but there is a risk that Mrs and Mr W could 
lose their home if they dont do more to try and reach an agreement with Target, rather than 
look for legal loopholes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman