DRN-3606111
The complaint
Ms P has complained about her motor insurance broker, By Miles Ltd, because it cancelled 
her policy.
What happened
Ms P had an accident. Her car was declared a total loss but repairable. Her insurer settled 
the claim, returning the car to Ms P for fixing and Ms P called By Miles. She wanted to make 
sure her policy was all still in place and would remain in place until renewal. She was 
assured it was and would. Around ten days later Ms P received an email stating the policy 
was ending the same day. By Miles said that was the case because of the claim which the 
insurer had settled. To compensate her for the advice received it offered her free legal cover 
and £20 of credit towards a new policy. Ms P found cover elsewhere and complained to us.
Our investigator felt that By Miles had acted fairly and reasonably by cancelling the policy 
because it was likely Ms Ps car had been unroadworthy. He said shed have needed to 
show it was repaired in order to have it covered. And he felt the advice received had been 
correct at the point given. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms P disagreed. She said she had called By Miles specifically to establish what was needed 
going forwards with the claim having been settled. Her complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans consideration. 
Having considered the complaint and listened to the call in question, I felt By Miles had failed 
Ms P. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views and intended redress to both 
parties. My findings were:
In the call By Miles was asked, now thered been a claim, if the policy was still valid to the 
normal expiry date. By Miles was also told the claim had been settled. And, crucially, I think, 
it was asked if all Ms P needed to do now was put the black box, which the policy requires to 
be fitted to the car, back in the car. The By Miles representative said the policy was still valid 
and all Ms P needed to do was put the box back in and she would be good to go. 
Now if the claim had not resulted in the total loss of the car, then that advice would 
seemingly have been correct. The fact the car had been declared a total loss wasnt 
volunteered to By Miles in this call. But the By Miles advisor, unlike Ms P, would have known 
that different claim outcomes mean the policy follows a different path. Here the total loss 
meant the policy would end unless Ms P took some important steps. It wasnt the case that 
she could just put the box back in and continue driving under the By Miles policy until 
renewal. And the By Miles advisor  knowing that the claim had been settled and Ms P had 
the car  should have been wise to that and asked more detail of Ms Ps representative in 
order to make sure the advice they were giving was correct. Seeing as Ms P had taken the 
time to call and check what she needed to do since the claim had been settled, I think if 
shed been told the policy could continue but would likely be suspended for a time whilst she 
had repairs done and presented a report showing the car was fixed, shed have done that.
As it was Ms P carried on using the car, not being aware that her policy was about to end. 
And, when it did end, it was abrupt with Ms P having no chance to, or option of, challenging 
it. This meant she had to find alternate cover at short notice. Finding cover like that will often 
result in a greater expense being incurred. And with the claim having just occurred as well 
that also increased the price of cover. But if the policy had remained in place until renewal, 
that expense, in the months up to the policy renewing, wouldnt have been incurred 
(because the original premium would have been maintained). And the cost related to finding 
alternative cover quickly, wouldnt have been incurred at all. I think By Miles needs to 
compensate Ms P for that. 
In that respect Ms P will have to send By Miles proof of the cost to her of cover and By Miles 
will have to refund her the difference between what shed been paying for the cover it had 
arranged and that she had to take out when her policy was cancelled. Up to the date her 
cancelled policy would have renewed. Against each extra payment Ms P made, it will have 
to pay interest*, applied from the date each was made by Ms P until settlement is made by it.
I also think it needs to make up for the worry and inconvenience she was caused when she 
was told the policy was cancelling and she would have to find new cover urgently. I think 
£100 is fair and reasonable for that. 
Ms P accepted my findings. By Miles said it disagreed with the decision.
By Miles said it still felt it had acted fairly and accurately in response to information available 
to it. It said the insurer told it of the total loss and so it had an obligation to act on that to 
cancel the policy. It said that to continue cover once a car is no longer owned by the 
policyholder  which is often what happens when a car is declared a total loss  can create a 
huge risk. And it had not been made aware that since the total loss settlement had been 
made it had been agreed for Ms P to keep the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what By Miles has said it should do upon receipt of information from the insurer. But in 
this case By Miles didnt only receive detail about the claim outcome from the insurer. Before 
the insurer confirmed settlement, it spoke to its policyholder too. So it did know Ms P was 
keeping the car. And, as Ive explained, the response given by By Miles in that conversation 
lacked detail. So much so, in my view, that it failed Ms P and caused her to end up in a 
position she otherwise wouldnt have been in. I remain of the view that Ms P likely was 
caused a loss as a result, as well as distress and inconvenience. All of which By Miles 
reasonably needs to make up for.
Having reviewed matters, my provisional findings havent changed. They, along with my 
comment above, now form the findings of this, my final decision.  
Putting things right
I require By Miles to:
Reimburse Ms P any amount she paid extra for new cover when compared to the price 
of the cover which was cancelled (up to the date the cancelled policy would have 
renewed).
On each extra payment made, apply interest*, from the date each was paid until settlement is made.
Pay £100 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require By Miles Ltd to provide the redress set out above at Putting 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman