DRN-3960539
The complaint
Mr N complains about the decline of his claim for damage to his home by his home insurer, 
Ageas Insurance Limited. I have mostly referred to Mr N as the policy is in his sole name.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs N discovered that their home had suffered damage to brick panels on 
the outside and to the gable end, which they think was due to vibration from building work at 
a nearby housing development. Mr N claimed to Ageas under the accidental damage cover 
within his building insurance policy. He was concerned about the possibility of further 
damage complained about the length of time Ageas was taking with the claim.
Ageas appointed specialist engineers to consider the damage. Their report of October 2017 
included information from the British Standard Code of Practice for Noise and Vibration 
Control on Construction and Open Sites, this states:
Vibration nuisance is frequently associated with the assumption that, if vibrations can be felt, 
then damage is inevitable; however, considerably greater levels of vibration are required to 
cause damage to buildings and structures.
The engineers stated that proof of damage from vibration is rare and there are many other 
mechanisms which cause damage to decorative finishes notably hydrothermal action. The 
report said the soil at the site (as described by the British Geological Survey) consisted of a 
mixture of clays to gravel over sedimentary bedrock and concluded, it is unlikely, although 
still possible, that the soil type in this case is particularly prone to adverse vibration affects.
The engineers further reported in 2018 reflecting on the vibration monitoring from the start of 
that year. It said all monitored readings were within British Standards thresholds. The report 
analysed wind speed in the area against horizontal pressures required to cause damage and 
concluded, it is likely that in the years since the panels were installed, sliding events have 
occurred on average once per year and toppling events more frequently, causing movement 
of all the panels. The report further concluded that most damage was pre-existing, caused 
by the wind over a long period of time, but the construction works may have caused some 
additional movement. However, it said the lack of piling plant meant any movement was 
probably minimal.    
Ageas declined the claim in 2018 on the basis the damage was more likely caused by wind 
for which there was no cover. Mr N instructed an engineer in 2019, and said he found that 
wind wasnt the cause and found evidence to suggest the damage was caused by vibration 
from the building site. But Mr N said Ageas wouldnt accept this and although it had shared 
several reports, it hadnt shared work carried out on vibration completed before the dispute. 
Mr N said Ageas also declined their solicitors suggestion to pay part of their costs and this 
left them with the full cost of repair, the expert report and solicitors fees. He said Ageas 
almost tripled his insurance premium between 2016 and 2020 and then cancelled the policy. 
He said they cannot now insure their house at all, with Ageas or anyone else. Mr N 
complained to Ageas about this and said its decision not to pay their claim is unfair. 
In its final response to the complaint, Ageas said the damage to Mr and Mrs Ns home had 
been found to have been caused gradually by wind forces over a period of time. Ageas said 
theres no cover in the policy for this damage which is due to natural causes. Mr N was 
unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr N needs to 
demonstrate that an event covered by the policy had occurred, but he didnt think that had 
happened. He thought the damage had occurred over an extended period which didnt meet 
the criteria for a sudden event.
Mr N disagreed. He said the investigator has misunderstood the evidence and the terms of 
the policy, wrongly asserting that the damage must emanate from a single event. Mr N 
requested an ombudsman review the complaint and asked that we assess the expert reports 
and reach judgement on the complaint accordingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas and our investigator think that Ageas has correctly applied the terms of the policy in 
declining Mr Ns claim, but he disagrees. For a claim to succeed it must fall within one of the 
insured perils included within the policy, as home insurance doesnt cover all types of loss or 
damage. 
In Mr Ns case this would need to be accidental damage for which the policy provides cover, 
so long as the definition is met, Unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden and 
external means.  
We arent experts in building engineering and so we have to rely on the available expert 
evidence in order to decide if the decline of a claim is fair. Ive looked carefully at the events 
and reports to see if Ageas followed the terms of the policy in declining the claim for 
accidental damage and to see if it has treated Mr N fairly. 
The first report I have considered was completed by specialist structural engineers for 
Ageas. They said that most of the panels to the house had moved and cracks were evident. 
However, although the report didnt entirely rule out vibration damage it said there was 
photographic evidence the damage was occurring before building at the nearby site began. 
The report included photographs of the property showing damage to the panels from 2009 
and 2016. 
The report said the closest house on the building site is about 50 metres away from Mr and 
Mrs Ns home and it was more likely the damage was caused by wind over time. The 
engineers offered to complete more in-depth assessments of the vibrations at the building 
site but couldnt gain the site operators cooperation for this, though the contractors said that 
no piling plant was present during the construction works. The engineers installed 
vibration monitoring equipment at Mr and Mrs Ns home at the start of 2018.
The second report was obtained by Mr N from consulting engineers. This reported significant 
movement of the panels that it said was not shown in photos from 2001. The report states 
there are a number of possible causes of the movement, including vibration from the building 
site, subsidence and wind loads. But the report didnt find that storm winds were the likely 
cause of the damage. It concluded that the damage is linked to the vibrations transmitted 
through the soils during the construction of housing on the opposite side of the road. The specialist structural engineers for Ageas disagreed with the engineers for Mr N that wind 
damage could be discounted and explained why they felt the reasoning for this was flawed. 
From their monitoring exercise the engineers ruled out vibration as the cause of the damage. 
Ageas said the outcome of the assessment of the vibration at Mr and Mrs Ns home shows 
that the damage was caused over an extended period of time and therefore not covered by 
Mr Ns policy.
Mr N has said he cannot accept that Ageas has demonstrated that wind caused the damage. 
I agree that this is not definitively shown from the reports. But in order for a claim to succeed 
the onus is on the policyholder to show that the damage or loss claimed is attributable to an 
insured event or peril. 
Mr N describes Ageas structural engineers report as a thorough investigation into the 
cause of the damage, but not providing a definitive view of the cause. I havent seen a 
definitive view of the cause of the damage, but I think this, and the follow-up reports were far 
more detailed than the analysis within the report Mr N obtained. But Mr N said that his report 
shows on the balance of probability that the cause of the damage was vibration and Ageas 
report reaches assumptions not sustained by the evidence. Im afraid I disagree as I think Mr 
Ns report falls some way short of demonstrating the link between the damage and vibration 
from the building site. 
I think that even if vibrations from the building site had contributed to the damage to Mr and 
Mrs Ns home this is unlikely to have been the major cause or to have emanated from a 
sudden event as the policy requires. I say this with the information on vibration frequencies 
and soil type in mind from the Ageas report and Mr Ns scepticism about the value of the 
interpretation of the data and the engineers underlying assumptions. I also think that the 
photographs of Mr and Mrs Ns home taken in 2009 show much of the damage that is the 
subject of Mr Ns subsequent claim. 
From everything that I have seen, I dont think on the balance of probabilities that a link to 
the cause of damage being from vibration at the nearby building site has been 
demonstrated. In common with other building insurance policies, Mr Ns policy excludes 
damage from gradually operating causes, and I can see why Ageas thinks this applies to his 
claim.
As I havent found that Mr N has shown the damage to his home is due to accidental 
damage, and it isnt covered by any other insured peril, I think Ageas decision to decline the 
claim was made within the terms of the policy and was fair to Mr N. I realise that Mr N will be 
disappointed by this decision and so by rejecting it the decision will be of no legal effect and 
other options such as legal action remain open to him. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs N for the prolonged period during which they have been 
uncertain about the cause of damage to their home. The time taken has largely been due to 
the obtaining and assessment of reports and I havent found that Ageas was responsible for 
avoidable delays.
I can see Mr Ns frustration at Ageas refusal to renew their home insurance policy. Insurers 
arent required to maintain cover for policyholders and will or wont do so according to their 
appetite for risk or organisation of their business. Insurers are entitled to charge premiums 
for the cover they provide according to a similar assessment of risk. A claim or potential 
claim is likely to increase premiums. These are commercial decisions with which we would 
not interfere. I hope Mr N has been able to find alternative cover.My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman