DRN-2334975
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a training course.
What happened
In late 2018 Mrs S attended an event at which she signed up a for a training course with 
company I will call G. This cost £11,500 and was funded by fixed term loan. Mrs S says the 
course isnt suitable for her needs. Mrs Ss clients are businesses and the course is targeted 
at services being supplied to individuals. She says she was assured the course would work 
for her business. 
She says the course claims to be tailored to each individual, but she doesnt believe it is 
tailored to her needs. Mrs S also says that the coaches she has worked with dont have the 
relevant experience. She claims that she was subjected to high pressure selling and that she 
paid more than others who took up the course later.
Mrs S complained to G and then to Shawbrook. It spoke to G and rejected the complaint. 
Shawbrook said that the course was generic and didnt distinguish between business and 
individual customers. It said she was actively booking workshops until April 2019. G had said 
that Mrs S had asked for an alternative coach to be provided and it had done so.
G said it had offered one to one support and help with developing marketing material, but 
this offer wasnt taken up. It added that the pricing structure hadnt changed and Mrs S had 
other options for making payment. 
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He said he had taken into account Mrs Ss testimony and the relevant documentation. He 
noted the curriculum supplied to Mrs S didnt make reference to the type of customer and it 
appeared to be generic. He couldnt say that she had been mis-led into buying something 
that wasnt suitable for her needs. He said there was some onus on the customer exercising 
due diligence in ensuring the service met their requirements. 
He explained that he could not interfere with the price Mrs S had agreed to pay. That was a 
decision she was entitled to make. He also noted that she had taken some eight months 
before making a complaint. Having reviewed emails between Mrs S and G he thought it had 
offered help with changing the coach and providing additional support.
Mrs S didnt agree and said she had complained after six months. She said the additional 
support was to make up for the support which had not been provided earlier. She didnt 
consider the course suitable for her and everything was designed for individual customers. 
She felt G had only stepped up its support after she had complained to this service. She 
reiterated that she had been told the course would be suitable for her business to business 
operation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mrs S, but I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain
The chain is not broken and so I have to consider if there has been either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. The essence of Mrs Ss complaint is that the course isnt 
suitable to help her develop her business which is targeted at business clients. 
I have looked at the curriculum and it is generic in setting out the areas it will cover to help 
people to be better and more successful coaches. It doesnt specify whether it is aimed at a 
particular type of business. I recognise Mrs S may have got caught up in the moment at the 
event she attended, but I cannot see that any of the written material was misleading.
I believe it set out at a high level what the course would cover and that allowed Mrs S to 
make a decision as to whether that material would be of use to her. It may have been that 
Gs representatives at the event encouraged people to sign up, but that is not unreasonable. 
They were there to promote their own business and nothing I have seen suggest undue 
pressure was applied and it would appear that some of those attending did not sign up.
I have also considered Mrs Ss testimony as to what she was told by people from G at the 
event. Obviously, it is difficult for me to judge exactly what was said and if any of those 
statements were factually misleading. Nor can I judge what benefit Mrs S can derive from 
the course for her particular business. The curriculum appears to be generic and I would 
presume it can offer some benefit even if it not as Mrs S expected.
I have noted G has made a couple of offers to Mrs S to try and ensure she makes the most 
of the material and support. In particular I note it changed the mentor who worked with Mrs S 
at her request. It may be appropriate if G looks to ensure Mrs S has the support of a mentor 
who has some experience of business to business activity. 
In summary I cannot see that there has been a breach of contract as G appears to be 
delivering what it offered in its curriculum. As for the matter of misrepresentation I dont 
consider I have enough evidence that would allow me to uphold this complaint. I know Mrs S 
will be disappointed and I am aware she is struggling financially, but I regret I cannot reach 
an alternative conclusion.
However, I would remind the bank of its obligation to deal with Mrs S positively and 
sympathetically in helping her resolve her financial difficulties. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman