DRN-1890218
 
Complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr B took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2002. He was sold a PPI policy at the same 
time in connection with this mortgage.  The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months if Mr B was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Nationwide didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in April 2020 explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint. I have copied below my findings from my provisional decision and 
these form part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they would like 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Neither Natiownide nor Mr B have 
provided anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
As I have not been provided with anything further to consider from either party, I have no 
reason to depart from my findings in the provisional decision. It follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint for the same reasons as those set out in my provisional decision. My findings 
from my provisional decision are set out below and form part of my final decision: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, I currently dont think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, particularly as our adjudicator thought 
otherwise. But I will go on to explain why I have reached this decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr B was eligible under the policy. Given Mr Bs age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr B that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to Mr Bs account. Mr B says that he just thought that the PPI was 
part of the mortgage. Nationside say that the optional nature of the PPI was made clear to 
Mr B and that he chose to take it out.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Mr B 
and Nationwide have told us and looked to the available documents to help me decide what 
is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Nationwide have provided us with a copy of the mortgage application form. As already 
mentioned, the sale took place during a meeting. So I think its more likely that the 
information on the application form reflected the discussion between the representative and 
Mr B. I note that the mortgage application form had a section headed Payment Protection 
Insurance. I note from this section that Mr B chose to take PPI out. There is also a 
handwritten note which confirms what the policy covers and the amount of monthly benefit. I 
have seen examples of applications in the past where the consumer did not take PPI and 
this has been reflected in the application form. As this application reflected Mr B chose to 
take out PPI and Mr B signed this form, I think its more likely that Mr B wanted to take out 
PPI.
Having taken everything into consideration I think its more likely that PPI was presented as 
optional and that Mr B chose to take it out and thats how it came to be applied to the 
account.
Nationwide say they didnt advise Mr B to take PPI. While I consider there to have been 
some discussion around PPI given what has been entered on the PPI section of the 
application form, I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Nationwide advised Mr B 
to take PPI. 
This means they didnt have to take steps to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr B. So for 
example, they didnt have to take into account what Mr Bs existing repayment provisions 
were, such as what Mr B has told us about his savings and his income protection policy. This 
point is very important as Mr B thinks he was mis-sold this PPI policy because Nationwide 
didnt take into account his existing repayment provisions. I appreciate Mr B had other 
provisions in place but it would have been for him to check whether he wanted to take the 
PPI out despite his existing repayment provisions, there was no onus on Nationwide to do 
so. So the policy cant have been mis-sold on the basis that Nationwide didnt take Mr Bs 
existing repayment provisions into account. 
However, Nationwide still had to give Mr B clear information about the PPI  in particular 
about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have meant that Mr B wouldnt have taken the policy out. And I 
dont think it would have.
I say this because at the very least Mr B would have been aware that he was taking out a 
policy which would protect his repayments in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. He knew (or should have known) what the level of benefit was and the 
period of time it would have paid out for. This was all set out in the application form which Mr 
B signed. And (as I have already found), Mr B chose to take this cover out so it looks like he 
wanted this cover despite his existing means. Better information about the policy would have shown him that the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to his sick pay, and while his income protection policy may have had restrictions, 
the PPI policy itself would havent prevented him from claiming in addition to his other 
means. The cost of the policy was reasonable in comparison to the benefit it provided and it 
doesnt look like Mr B was affected by the more restrictive terms/exclusions in the policy 
which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. Mr B 
could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he no longer 
wanted it. From the evidence Ive seen, it does appear that Mr B took the initiative of not 
renewing the policy in 2004 because he felt at that time that he had sufficient cover in place. 
So it looks to me that Mr B had a good understanding of the PPI policy.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont currently think Nationwide mis-sold Mr 
B this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman