DRN-2572534
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a finance agreement supplied by 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to end the 
agreement and reject the vehicle.  
What happened
Mr S tells us that he acquired the vehicle in February 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to as IC. 
He says that since the vehicle was supplied, hes experienced faults with the ad blue 
system. And that hes had to take the vehicle in for repairs on numerous occasions. He says 
that hes provided evidence that before he acquired the vehicle it had been experiencing the 
same issues.
Santander told us it had rejected Mr S complaint as hed taken the vehicle to a third-party 
garage for repairs and not returned it to IC. It also said that both the garages where the 
vehicle had been taken for repairs confirmed that no fault had been found with the vehicle. It 
explained that re-filling the ad blue system would be an expected feature of the vehicle. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 December 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I found that the vehicle was probably experiencing an intermittent fault 
with the ad blue system. And this meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
As Santander had been given the opportunity to arrange repairs to the vehicle, I felt it was 
fair that Mr S should now be able to reject it.
Following my provisional decision, Mr S replied and accepted my provisional decision. 
Although he did refer to additional expense relating to taxi fares incurred whilst waiting for 
the vehicle to be repaired. Ive not received any reply from Santander. I thank Mr S for his 
reply. Ill deal with the issue of the additional expenses in my final decision although for 
reasons Ill explain Im not minded to change the terms of my provisional view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr S conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive been provided with details of occasions when the vehicle was seen by a garage prior to 
supply to Mr S. And afterwards by his local dealer, a business Ill call W. The latter is, I 
understand, a branch or franchise of the vehicles manufacturer. So any work which W has 
done is likely to have been done to the same standards as if the vehicle had been returned 
to IC for examination.
I dont find that the justification offered in Santanders final response letter - that by using W, 
Mr S had prevented Santander from holding IC liable for any CRA issues  is plausible. Or 
that it has been supported by any evidence or information.
Clause 4.1 of the agreement required Mr S to keep the vehicle in good condition. And carry 
out any repairs. It did not say where this had to be done. And as theres little if any change 
out of 100 miles each way from Mr S address to ICs premises its not unreasonable that he 
should use one of the manufacturers garages more local to him.
Looking at the various reports of garages which inspected the vehicle both before and after 
supply to Mr S I think these show that the vehicle was displaying intermittent issues with the 
ad blue function. Im aware that none of the garages have been able to identify a specific 
fault. But there is evidence that the ad blue gauge wasnt performing as might be expected.
I think our investigator was correct to draw the distinction between the vehicle being fault 
free and the garages thus far being unable to diagnose whats causing the issue with the ad 
blue system.
Ive seen several screen shots from the garage reports which appear to show issues with the 
ad blue system.
Prior to supply to Mr S, these were:
10.04.17 - Ad blue light showing even though 1,495 miles left. Light then went off;
14.09.18 - Investigate message saying: Ad blue low  even though topped up  (light not 
on);
After supply to Mr S:
9.04.19 - Ad blue showing as empty, even though topped up previous week;
31.07.19 - Ad blue showing as run out, even though topped up;
20.08.19  investigate ongoing issues with ad blue counter;
19.09.19  reference to DPF and ad blue counter on dash;
I should add that there are several other references to the ad blue system requiring topping 
up. These are both before and after supply to Mr S. As its not clear if these are simply 
routine top ups, Ive not taken these into account in reaching my final decision.
I infer from the above summary that both before and after supply to Mr S the vehicle was 
displaying an intermittent issue which seems to have resulted in the ad blue system 
appearing to run low even though it had been topped up.This problem was identified within a few weeks of the vehicles supply to Mr S. Mr S brought 
his complaint to Santander in September 2019. Santander rejected it in October 2019.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
There is sufficient information, in my opinion, to show that when Mr S brought his complaint 
to Santander the vehicle had not conformed to contract within the first six months after 
supply to him.
An intermittent fault with the ad blue indicator is potentially serious as the driver wouldnt be 
able to rely on it. And this could result in damage if it wasnt topped up as required. Rather 
than fully investigate the substance of the complaint Santander declined to uphold it on what 
Ive already said I found not to be a plausible basis.
The CRA states that where the short time right to reject (usually within 30 days of supply) 
isnt exercised that the supplier has one opportunity to put things right and carry out 
necessary repairs so that the goods are restored to a condition where they do conform to 
contract.
It further goes on to say that the right to repair is subject to there being no unreasonable 
delay in repairs being done. And it not causing significant inconvenience to the consumer.
The vehicles MOT history shows it had an odometer reading of 26,094 miles in February 
2019 just before it was supplied to Mr S. And that it passed a further MOT in February 2020 
with odometer reading 43,805 miles. So the ad blue problems have not rendered the vehicle 
ineffective.
In March 2020 when our investigator issued his second view, he suggested that Santander 
finance an independent inspection of the vehicle. Whilst this in itself wasnt a resolution of 
the complaint it offered a path forward that mightve led to one.
Santander declined to agree  and I understand its reluctance if it took the view that no fault 
had been confirmed and third party repairs mightve affected the situation. But if it had taken 
a closer look at the overall circumstances rather that rely on what I find was a tenuous 
reason to reject the complaint, its hard to think it wouldnt have accepted that there was 
substance to Mr S complaint.
As several months have elapsed, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Mr S 
to wait for a further examination of the vehicle. So Im minded to find that he should now be 
able to reject it. Hes reported the same intermittent issues remain as recently as October 
2020.
Mr S initially requested a full refund. But given the use hes had from the vehicle  although 
punctuated by an amount of inconvenience - I dont think that would be fair and reasonable.
In line with our usual approach  and the provisions of the CRA - he will have to pay for fair 
use which will effectively be the contractual monthly payments. But it seems he made a cash 
deposit payment of £250 which should be refunded.
It would not be our usual approach to refund taxi fares unless these were unavoidable - for 
example if public transport was not available. Also I havent seen any receipts. So whilst I 
accept Mr S has experienced inconvenience, the vehicle has for the most part continued to 
be able to be used. And I feel the award Ive made is fair and reasonable.Putting things right 
I now require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing for Mr S to pay from the date of termination. 
Payments which have accrued up to that date should be paid and may be retained by 
Santander for fair use;
2. Arrange for the vehicle to be collected at no cost to Mr S;
3. Refund to Mr S the cash deposit (£250);
4. Pay Mr S £100 for distress and inconvenience;
5. Upon termination of the agreement  make arrangements for Mr S credit file to 
record the agreement as settled. Adverse entries (if any) relating to this agreement 
should be removed. This need be done only when any payments which have accrued 
are up to date.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to item 3 from date of payment to 
date of termination.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. I require 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman