DRN-3054337
Complaint
Mr P says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly refused a loan which would have helped 
him clear his overdraft. Hes also unhappy at Lloyds decision to default the overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mr P over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr P if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr P fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Lloyds continued charging 
Mr P even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this. 
Having thought about everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr P unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive also looked through Mr Ps statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
Lloyds ought to have been aware that Mr P might have been struggling prior to being notified 
of this. Mr P may argue his regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But there are funds going into the account. And it wasnt clearly apparent that the 
facility had become demonstrably unsustainable.
Ive also thought about what Mr P has said about the alternatives Lloyds offered. It does 
seem like some kind of loan was discussed. And a lender will have its own criteria for 
assessing applications. But at the very least I would expect a lender to carry out an income 
and expenditure assessment, in order to ensure it doesnt lend irresponsibly. And it appears 
as though Mr P didnt complete the requested information. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to say that a lender should have lent in circumstances where it couldnt 
take appropriate steps to assess that the payments would be affordable. 
I do sympathise with what Mr P has told us. I fully appreciate hes gone through a difficult 
time and understand why hes unhappy with adverse information being recorded on his 
credit file and worried about the impact this will have on him. But by June 2019, it was clear 
Mr Ps account position had clearly worsened. The temporary assistance offered clearly 
hadnt improved the situation and I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or 
proportionate to continue ignoring Mr Ps obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. 
So by this stage, I would have expected Lloyds to have taken corrective action in the way 
that it did. After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse 
information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain 
protections in relation to the overdraft debt. And I wouldnt consider it fair and reasonable for 
a lender to continually allow a borrower to delay dealing with the consequences of problem 
debt. Id also add that asking Lloyds to reinstate the overdraft here, or remove the default, 
when it seems unlikely Mr P will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial 
arrangements, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr Ps interests or that of any 
future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Ps overdraft when it did and issue a 
correctly addressed formal demand notice, offering Mr P the opportunity bring his account 
up-to-date before it would take any action. As this is the case and Mr P didnt or wasnt able 
to take steps to comply with the formal demand for payment, Im satisfied that Lloyds was 
entitled to withdraw Mr Ps overdraft and record the information it did on Mr Ps credit file. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman