DRN-2252195
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs W took out on 
the advice and recommendation of Key Retirement Solutions Limited. Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint is that the lifetime mortgage Key recommended came with an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when alternatives without an ERC were available from other providers. On 
that basis, Mr and Mrs W say the mortgage was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took the mortgage out in 2014. The terms of the mortgage provide that no 
monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if 
the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be 
repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an ERC is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs W recently decided to move to a bungalow, as they now find stairs difficult to 
manage. When they came to repay the mortgage, the lender quoted them an ERC. They 
complained after a relative told them that Key could have recommended a mortgage without 
an ERC. Key rejected the complaint, saying that the mortgage it recommended was the most 
suitable for their circumstances at the time
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr and Mrs W asked for the 
case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2014. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information 
is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
I dont have to consider whether the advice to take out an equity mortgage was inherently 
suitable or not. All thats in dispute here is whether Key recommended the best product for 
Mr and Mrs Ws needs and circumstances as expressed at the time. 
The information-gathering exercise included specific questions on whether Mr and Mrs W 
envisaged moving home and if they intended repaying the mortgage early. The relevance of 
these questions goes directly to the point of the dispute. The answers given were that 
Mr and Mrs W had no desire to move and did not foresee any circumstances in which theyd 
be able to repay the mortgage early.
A lifetime mortgage is by its nature a long-term product, and the point of sale documents 
recorded that Mr and Mrs W werent anticipating paying the mortgage off in the short-term. 
The point-of-sale material shows that Key compared the products on offer from several 
providers, some of which did not charge an ERC. But given the available information 
indicated that Mr and Mrs W didnt anticipate repaying early, the mortgage Key 
recommended had the lowest anticipated lifetime cost, and was therefore suitable advice. 
Clearly, Mr and Mrs W have changed their plans since 2014. Mr and Mrs Ws decision to 
repay the mortgage early, reflects their changed circumstance since 2014, and its their right 
to do so. But that doesnt render the advice Key gave them in 2014 unsuitable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman