DRN-2317736
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has dealt with her 
claim for storm damage under her Let Property insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B was made aware by her letting agent that there was a leak at her rental property. 
Water had come in through the roof into the bathroom causing internal damage to the ceiling 
and walls around the airing cupboard. Mrs B believes this was as a result of extreme rainfall 
in the days before the leak was reported to her. She notified Great Lakes immediately she 
was aware of the problem and made a claim under the storm damage section of her 
insurance policy.
Great Lakes appointed a contractor to inspect the property. Their report stated that the 
single storey extension was in a very poor condition. The flashing and abutments were poor 
with signs of previous flash band repairs. It was suggested that repairs should be carried out 
to the flashing as this is the likely area of water ingress. The report went on to say that the 
slate roof cover to the main house was generally in good condition, although lead flashings 
to the chimney and lead valleys should be replaced. It was also suggested that the slates 
over the bathroom should be re-laid with new felt around the flashings. The report stated that 
the leak in the roof was caused by age related wear and tear which was excluded under the 
policy.  Mrs Bs claim was declined. The report noted that there are wet patches to the walls 
and ceiling of the airing cupboard and in other areas of the bathroom.  
Mrs B complained to Great Lakes about two issues. Firstly, there were delays in the handling 
of her claim. Secondly, Mrs B said that her claim under the policy should have been paid.  
She said that the contractors report focussed primarily on the single storey outhouse which 
was not the location of the leak. She also complained that Great Lakes had not taken into 
consideration the weather conditions in the days before she reported the leak and that she 
believed the leak was caused by the unusually high rainfall.
Great Lakes accepted there were delays in the handling of Mrs Bs claim and this issue has 
been resolved between the parties. Great Lakes did not uphold the remainder of Mrs Bs 
complaint. They agreed with their contractors report and said that the cause of damage was 
not a one- off insured peril, but due to wear and tear. They pointed to the policy documents 
which exclude damage due to wear and tear.
Mrs B was not satisfied with Great Lakes response and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator found that there were storm conditions a week before the leak was reported but 
did not think that the damage to the roof was the sort of damage that was likely to have been 
caused by heavy rainfall. He went on to consider the internal damage under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. He concluded that this was covered as the damage was 
consistent with a wet storm. He therefore required Great Lakes to deal with the internal 
damage.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage 
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the 
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim 
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it.
Section 1(2) of Mrs Bs building insurance policy includes storm damage. I could not see a 
definition for storm. On page 12 of the policy there are general exclusions that apply to all 
sections and these include loss and damage caused by wear and tear. The policy also 
includes accidental damage. Accidental damage is defined as Sudden and unexpected 
damage occurring at a specific time and caused by external means. It specifically excludes 
wear and tear. It is clear, therefore, that Mrs Bs policy covers damage caused by a storm, 
including accidental damage, but will not cover any damage that is caused by wear and tear.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I have to ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.  I will look at each point separately and consider the 
external damage and the internal damage.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Great Lakes did not address this issue in their response to Mrs Bs complaint, although it 
was something that was specifically raised. Our investigator noted there was significant 
rainfall on 8 November sufficient to be considered a storm. No specific date has been given 
for when the leak occurred although we do know that it was reported to the letting agent on 
15 November. Water damage will not necessarily show itself immediately after storm 
conditions. Water can travel and often appears some time after the storm itself. I have 
therefore looked at the weather in the week or so prior to the report of the incident. 
The Met Office issued a yellow weather warning for rain on 14 November in parts of England 
including the area of Mrs Bs house. Rainfall on this day was measured as 26 mm in a 24 
hour period which, although heavy rainfall, would not necessarily have been considered a 
storm. I have also looked at local newspaper reports which show there was significant 
rainfall in the preceding week resulting in flooding in the local area with some homes being 
evacuated. On 7/8 November weather data reports 58.6 mm of rain in a 24 hour period. I did 
not see any evidence of severe winds. 
Having considered the weather reports, Im satisfied that there was significant rainfall on and 
off during the week preceding the claim being notified, and on balance Im satisfied that 
there were storm conditions based on rainfall around the time of the damage.
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive thought carefully about whether the damage caused to Mrs Bs property is consistent 
with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. I have considered both the 
external and the internal damage. Ive read the report and looked at the photos from Great Lakes contractor. This is the only 
expert evidence I have. Mrs B was concerned that the report focuses primarily on the single 
storey extension which is an outhouse, and not relevant to her claim as it is nowhere near 
the damage which is visible in the first floor bathroom. I would agree. The damage to the first 
floor bathroom is to the ceiling and the water ingress must have come from above, rather 
than from a ground floor extension which is adjacent to the main house. I will therefore focus 
on the parts of the report which deal with the roof to the main house.
In relation to the roofing on the main house, it is unusual for this type of roofing to be 
damaged by heavy rain if its in good condition. Its more often the case that damage occurs 
during a storm because that weather highlights pre-existing problems with the roof. Great 
Lakes report states that the roof is suffering from age related wear and tear. It highlights 
repairs that should be carried out to the main roof, in particular to the flashings around the 
chimney and lead valleys. I think it would be unlikely for rain to come down with such force 
that it would cause such damage without there having been a pre-existing problem. I do not 
therefore believe that the damage to the roof was typical of that caused by a rain storm.
In relation to the internal damage, Im satisfied that damp patches to the ceiling and walls, 
and peeling paint, are typical examples of damage from water ingress caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Taking the contractors report and photos together with the fact the roof damage isnt 
consistent with what we might usually expect to see in cases of storm damage, I cannot 
conclude that the storm was the main cause of the damage to the roof. Therefore, I do not 
think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to say that the external damage wasnt down to a 
one-off storm incident. I think its more likely the heavy rainfall simply highlighted existing 
issues with the roof. I do not uphold this part of Mrs Bs complaint. I am sure that Mrs B will 
be disappointed by my decision, but I do hope she understands the reasons for it.
Ive gone on to consider whether the claim for internal damage should be covered under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. I have viewed the photos of the internal damage.  
There is peeling wallpaper to the ceiling of the airing cupboard. The report notes wet patches 
to the walls and ceiling mainly in and around the airing cupboard. There is no evidence that 
this damage was caused by wear and tear, or that it was present before the storm. I accept 
that the internal damage to Mrs Bs house was sudden, unexpected and caused by external 
means. Im therefore satisfied that Great Lakes should cover the cost of the internal damage 
under the accidental damage section of the policy.  
Putting things right
I would ask Mrs B to confirm whether the internal damage has already been repaired.  If so, 
the cost should be refunded by Great Lakes (subject to excess) together with interest at 8% 
from the date of the loss to the date of payment. If the repairs have not yet been carried out 
Great Lakes should arrange for these to be carried out at their own cost (subject to excess).
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint about the storm damage to the roof, 
but I do uphold the complaint relating to the accidental damage to the bathroom ceiling. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth MiddletonOmbudsman