DRN-3395370
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process an international payment she tried to 
make correctly.
What happened
In September 2021 Ms W received a payment of around £79,000 into her account from her 
family and then, a couple of days later, sent a payment of £10,000 back to her family.
As the £10,000 payment was sent to an account in another country, Santander sent it via an 
intermediary bank. The intermediary bank carried out checks on the payment and asked for 
more information from Ms W before completing it. But while it was doing these checks, 
Ms Ws family asked to recall the initial £79,000 payment  saying it had been made due to 
fraud.
Santander then asked Ms W to provide proof that she was entitled to the £79,000 payment, 
removed what was left of the payment from her account and requested an indemnity from 
Ms Ws familys bank before it would send the payment back. Ms W provided proof she was 
entitled to the £79,000 payment but her familys bank wouldnt send an indemnity, so 
Santander didnt send the payment back.
Ultimately, Ms W asked to recall the £10,000 payment as well, and Santander was satisfied 
there was no fraud. So both the £10,000 and £79,000 payments were returned to Ms W in 
December 2021. But, due to changes in the exchange rates, she received less money back 
than was originally sent. Ms W complained that Santander should refund her this loss, and 
that it should pay her compensation for the delays, stress and inconvenience she was 
caused.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think Santander had treated Ms W 
unfairly. They felt Santander had done what wed expect it to do in this situation by speaking 
with both the intermediary bank and Ms Ws familys bank, and by checking there was no 
fraud before releasing the payments. And they didnt think Santander was responsible for the 
loss Ms W had been caused by the changes in the interest rates. So they didnt recommend 
Santander pay Ms W any compensation. Ms W disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, the initial £79,000 payment was paid into Ms Ws Santander account 
without any issues and Santander processed the £10,000 payment Ms W made and sent it 
to the intermediary bank.
Its not uncommon for international payments to be sent via an intermediary bank, or for 
additional checks to be carried out on international payments. So I dont think Santander 
made any errors here. And Ive seen evidence that Santander chased the intermediary bank 
for updates on the £10,000 payment several times, asked Ms W for the information the 
intermediary bank requested and forwarded on the information Ms W provided to the 
intermediary bank. So I dont think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for the 
delays here.
As Ms Ws family then asked to recall the £79,000 payment and said it was made due to 
fraud, I think Santander then acted reasonably in freezing the amount in Ms Ws account and 
asking her for proof that she was entitled to the payment. I recognise that Ms W and her 
family later said the payment hadnt been made due to fraud. But banks have a responsibility 
to try to prevent fraud and scams. So having been told of possible fraud, I think its 
reasonable that Santander stopped the money being moved on any further and investigated 
where it had come from. And while these investigations did cause delays to both the £10,000 
and the £79,000 payment being returned, as I think Santander acted reasonably in 
investigating, I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to pay compensation for these 
delays.
I also think it was reasonable for Santander to ask Ms Ws familys bank for an indemnity 
before it returned the £79,000 payment, as this is not uncommon when banks are returning 
potentially fraudulent funds between each other. And, even though Ms W told Santander her 
family was no longer saying the £79,000 payment had been made due to fraud, I think it was 
reasonable for Santander to want to complete its own investigation into the payment and the 
potential fraud  rather than just immediately return it.
I appreciate that there were significant delays in the processing of both the £10,000 payment 
and the return of the £79,000 payment, and that these delays caused Ms W considerable 
distress and inconvenience. But I think the main causes of these delays were the additional 
checks carried out by the intermediary bank and Ms Ws family asking to recall the £79,000 
payment, which were both outside of Santanders control. I think Santander acted 
reasonably at each point throughout the process, based on the information it was given, and 
I cant see that it made any significant errors. So I dont think it would be fair to require 
Santander to pay any compensation for these delays.
As the £10,000 payment had been sent to the intermediary bank, it had been converted into 
a foreign currency. It was then converted back into pounds again when it was returned to 
Ms Ws account. And, due to changes in the exchange rates, Ms W received less money 
back than was originally sent. But the terms and conditions of Ms Ws account say that 
returned international payments will be converted into pounds when they are re-credited and 
so the amount returned may be different than what was sent. So I think Santander did 
enough to make Ms W aware that this could happen. And, as I dont think Santander made 
any errors when sending or returning the payment, I dont think it would be fair to require it to 
refund this difference to Ms W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman