DRN-3384222
The complaint
Mr G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited reported missed payments on his credit file 
incorrectly. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr G took out a loan with Shawbrook for £3,900, having paid a £500 
deposit.
 
The loan had an interest free option, meaning Mr G could settle the loan without paying 
interest if he did so within the first 12 months. If he didnt, the loan would be payable with 
interest. This was set out in the credit agreement sent to him at the time. 
Mr G was sent a letter in January 2019 letting him know his interest free period was coming 
to an end the following month. It also provided different options for repayment. 
The loan was settled in November 2020, which fell outside of the interest free period. 
Because of this, interest had been charged from the beginning of the loan. Mr G believed the 
loan to be settled, and so the direct debit was cancelled. However a final payment was 
outstanding, and when that couldnt be taken the account went into arrears. Shawbrook 
subsequently wrote out to him about the arrears. 
Mr G questioned the outstanding amount and says he was told by Shawbrook not to make 
any further payments until they had investigated the matter. He said Shawbrook told him that 
his credit report wouldnt be affected, however when trying to change his mortgage eight 
months later, he noticed Shawbrook had recorded four months worth of arrears on his credit 
file. 
Mr G complained in January 2020 as he believed the interest shouldnt have been applied 
during the first 12 months of the loan. He also believed the £500 deposit would be taken off 
the principle balance and didnt know why there was an outstanding balance. He was also 
unhappy with the contact he had received from Shawbrook.
Shawbrook sent Mr G their final response on 14 February 2020. They said the credit 
agreement signed by Mr G explained that interest would be charged from the start date of 
the loan, should it not be paid in full within the interest free period of 12 months. In relation to 
the £500 deposit, this had already been removed as the correct total sum of the loan was 
£4,400. As the deposit isnt something Shawbrook deals with, the total wasnt reflected on 
their system, but would have been on the credit agreement. 
In relation to there still being an outstanding balance, Shawbrook explained that as Mr G 
thought the total was £3,400 (£3,900 minus the £500), he assumed it had all been repaid. In 
fact, the total was £3,900 (£4,400 minus the £500). Because of this, £509.39 remained 
outstanding. 
In terms of their communication with him, Shawbrook explained that the letters sent had 
been necessary to keep him updated, and that they hadnt sent any emails. They apologised 
for making Mr G feel threatened, but explained the letters had to be sent in order to let him 
know what was going on with his account. 
Mr G made another complaint in May 2020 and this complaint was made on his behalf by a 
representative, Miss B. This complaint was about Mr G not receiving correspondence about 
his previous complaint, that a call was terminated, and that no acknowledgment had been 
received within 72 hours. 
Shawbrook sent their final response for this complaint on 16 June 2020. They apologised for 
Mr G not receiving any correspondence in relation to his previous complaint and sent a copy 
of their letter dated 14 February. 
In relation to the terminated call, Shawbrook explained they couldnt find any record of an 
incoming call and said that their lines had been busier than usual meaning it may have been 
harder to reach them. 
Shawbrook also explained they didnt acknowledge the email received from Miss B as she 
didnt have the correct authority to speak to them on behalf of Mr G. They didnt have a 
signed Letter of Authority or Power of Attorney, and needed this before they could speak 
with Miss B. 
Mr G then made another complaint on 9 July 2020 regarding the service he had received 
from Shawbrook, the fact he didnt receive a call back, the effect the missed payments had 
on his credit file, and the charges relating to the 12-months interest free period. 
Shawbrook sent their final response letter for this complaint on 28 August 2020. They 
apologised for the service given in relation to the Letter of Authority and upheld this part of 
the complaint. They also apologised that no call back was made when it was promised on 31 
July 2020. For these two errors they awarded £60 compensation. 
In relation to Mr Gs credit file, Shawbrook explained that they had to report accurately to 
credit reference agencies and so his credit file was showing four missed payments since 
January 2020. 
A final complaint was made on 3 June 2021. This complaint consisted of things that had 
been dealt with previously, and Mr G also complained as he said hed been told by 
Shawbrook during a phone call that the accumulated arrears would not show on his credit 
file, as missed payments wouldnt be classed as unpaid. 
Shawbrook sent another final response on 23 June 2021. They said they had reviewed all 
calls and couldnt find any record where they had advised the arrears would not be reported. 
They said payments were not met as the direct debit was cancelled prior to its due date in 
January 2020. Because of this, the account fell into arrears and they had written out to 
confirm this on the following day. They said that while they agreed to put a hold on the 
account to stop any further communication with Mr G regarding the arrears, the account 
would still be operating as normal. Therefore any contractual payments would still need to be 
made. 
Our investigator looked into all of Mr Gs complaint points but explained that they had all 
been brought out of time. She explained that in order for us to look into a complaint, it must 
be brought to us within six months of the date of the businesss final response letter. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that all of Mr Gs complaint points had been covered by 
Shawbrooks final response letters of 28 August 2020 and those that preceded it. She explained that the points raised after this time were duplicates of ones made before. 
Because of this, she wasnt able to look into any of Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G disagreed. Because of this, the complaint was passed to me for review.
 
Upon reviewing Mr Gs complaint, I decided that while most of his complaint points were 
outside of our jurisdiction, there was one point we could look into. Because of this, Mr Gs 
complaint was passed to an investigator, who explained she would look into his complaint 
about being told on the phone that there would be no impact on his credit file during 
Shawbrooks complaint investigation. 
 
Our investigator explained that having listened to all of the calls provided, and after looking 
through Shawbrooks contact notes, she couldnt find anything to suggest that either Mr G or 
Miss B had been told that there wouldnt be any impact on his credit file. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed back to me 
for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything we have, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I 
will explain why. 
Id like to start by saying that Im aware of the impact this is having on Mr G and Im really 
sorry its causing so much distress and worry for him and Miss B. 
But like the investigator, I too have listened to all of the call recordings, and have read 
through all of the contact notes provided by Shawbrook and I cannot find any evidence to 
show, or suggest that either Mr G or Miss B were told there wouldnt be any impact on his 
credit file as a result of the missed payments.  
There were times during multiple calls where Miss B expressed her concern about the effect 
the missed payments would have on Mr Gs credit file. She also explained that she had been 
told there wouldnt be any impact on the credit file while the complaint investigation was 
ongoing. During calls I listened to, there were multiple discussions around the impact, but I 
didnt find any evidence of Mr G or Miss B being told there would be nothing reported on the 
credit file. 
On 17 January 2021 Miss B was told that the first late payment fee would be removed, but 
the missed payments could negatively affect the credit file as the account was in arrears. 
On 3 June 2021 Miss B discussed the credit file again and the advisor explained that the 
arrears would show from January 2020 for six years. He also explained that businesses 
have to report accurately to the credit reference agencies and that any arrears couldnt be 
removed. 
On 9 July 2021, during another conversation about the impact on Mr Gs credit file, the 
advisor said if there are any amendments to be made to the credit file they will do that after 
the complaint has been looked into. This was reiterated again on 31 July when the advisor 
said if there was an error on their side it would be adjusted. 
So, while I agree the impact on the credit file was discussed multiple times, I couldnt find 
anything to suggest Mr G or Miss B were told that the missed payments wouldnt be reported on Mr Gs credit file. But they did let Miss B know that it could be affected by the missed 
payments. 
In any event, even if Mr G or Miss B had been told that the credit file wouldnt be affected, 
that advice would be incorrect. The outstanding balance on the account was genuine and 
there were payments missed. So even if nothing was reported to the credit file while the 
complaint investigation was ongoing, it would have been reported afterwards as Shawbrook 
has a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. 
Because of this, Im not able to ask them to remove any negative information that is showing 
on Mr Gs credit file. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for, but I hope I have explained clearly why 
Im not able to ask Shawbrook to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman