DRN-2507160
The complaint
Mr B complains about bonuses he feels he should have received from The Equitable 
Life Assurance Society (Equitable Life) after transferring his with-profits plan to a third-
party provider.
What happened
Mr B held a with profits annuity with Equitable Life which was transferred to a third-party 
provider as part of a legal process in 2007. The Financial Services Authority (FSA) now The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) carried out research and consultations at the time, prior 
to the transfer. The transfer was supported by the members and ratified by the courts.
In 2019, Mr B became aware that Equitable Life were going to be purchased later that 
year, meaning that their annuitants would receive bonuses, potentially of significant 
amounts. He wrote to Equitable Life on 3 March 2019 to ask about it sharing those profits 
with former shareholders who went through, in his words, anguish, during the transfer.
Equitable responded explaining it wasnt possible to distribute bonuses to 
previous policyholders as on current policyholders would be eligible.
Mr B wrote a follow up letter in which he said he felt Equitable had promised high returns to 
policyholders which it subsequently could not maintain, and this resulted I the bulk transfer to 
the third-party provider. He feels there is an argument for Equitable Life to provide some 
form of reimbursement to previous policyholders, like himself.
On 9 April 2019, Equitable Life issued its final response. In it said, the decision to transfer 
with profits policyholders to a third-party provider was taken in the best interest of 
members, supported by members and ratified by the courts. It explained that as Mr B is no 
longer a member of a with profits scheme administered by them, he cant partake in any 
bonuses.
Dissatisfied Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. He looked carefully at the information provided 
at the time and he explained how the with-profits funds work and how bonuses are 
accumulated. He explained as Mr B had brought his complaint against Equitable Life, he 
could only look at whether it had been fair and reasonable in its action. He didnt think 
Equitable Life had done anything wrong and so he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he felt the transfer of the with-profits policies to a third party 
were essentially carried out as Equitable Life were unable to sustain their promises of high 
returns. He feels the benefits were significantly waited towards the survival of Equitable 
Life rather than for the benefit of with-profit policyholders. Now that financial security 
appears to be in sight, he feels it is only fair that previous policyholders are also 
considered for any potential bonus.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B feels very strongly that he should be entitled to a share of any capital 
distribution that Equitable Life undertakes. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint 
him, as Im not going to ask Equitable Life to do anything. Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Mr B has pointed out he has also brought a complaint against the third-party provider. That 
is a separate matter and so I should point out that I am only considering whether the 
actions of Equitable Life are fair or otherwise in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the 
position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In 2018 Equitable Life announced that it would be asking its members to vote on a proposal 
that, among other things, would distribute capital to its current with-profits policyholders. 
This proposal received widespread publicity and having become aware of the proposal 
prompted Mr Bs letter to the Chairman and the Board of Equitable Life. In essence, he 
wanted to make a claim for a share of the capital.
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling. He queried the circumstances leading to the 
transfer of his Equitable Life policies to another provider. But as our investigator said, the 
transfer was approved by majority vote and sanctioned by the Court. Because of this lawful 
transfer, Mr B isnt a policyholder with Equitable Life.
As he isnt a policyholder with Equitable Life, he wouldnt be eligible to receive a capital 
distribution from the proposed scheme if it is approved. Equitable Lifes proposals are a 
matter for it to decide and the proposals arent compensation of any kind, and so Im afraid 
I cant agree that Equitable Life has acted unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but for these reasons I wont be asking Equitable Life to 
do anything in response to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
Wendy Steele
 
Ombudsman