DRN-4268671
The complaint
Miss N has complained about the service provided by Lloyds Banks General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds) under her home insurance policy. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Lloyds, also includes its contractors, loss adjusters, 
agents, and representatives.
What happened
The kitchen, lounge and hallway of Miss Ns home were unfortunately damaged by flood, 
following a stop-tap failure in April 2021. Miss N was insured by Lloyds at the relevant time, 
and she made a claim on her policy. Lloyds assessor confirmed that new flooring and 
skirting boards were needed, as well as redecoration. Miss N said that screed was 
eventually applied to the lounge floor by Christmas 2021 and to the kitchen floor by May 
2022. Miss N was unhappy about the standard of repairs carried out by Lloyds and about a 
lack of communication throughout the claims process. She complained to Lloyds, and it 
partially upheld her complaint. Miss N then referred her complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator partially upheld Miss Ns complaint as she considered that Lloyds 
had been responsible for avoidable delays. She also agreed that the standard of work hadnt 
been good enough. Due to the delays, standard of repairs and the breakdown in 
relationship, she thought it reasonable that Miss N would want to carry out the repairs 
independently, and not to use Lloyds contractors. She thought that Miss N should provide 
Lloyds with reasonable quotes to get the work fixed which would need to be within Lloyds 
guidelines. It was also her view that these quotes would need to be assessed by Lloyds 
engineers. The investigator further noted the level of distress and inconvenience suffered by 
Miss N and her family. She however recognised that Lloyds had increased its compensation 
offer to bring total compensation up to £850 in total and she considered that this was in line 
with the services guidelines. She did not therefore recommend that Lloyds paid Miss N any 
further compensation.
Miss N remained unhappy with the outcome of her complained. She didnt consider that the 
recommended compensation was sufficient to recognise the extent of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final 
decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I turn firstly to Miss Ns submissions. She considered that the repairs hadnt been carried out 
properly. Miss N explained that some of the floor was ripped up by Lloyds contractors in 
May 2021, however this was left until December 2021 as a trip hazard. A family member 
had sustained injury in a distressing incident by tripping on the floor in August 2021 and this 
had made an existing disability worse. She said that Lloyds agents failed to communicate 
and appeared to blame each other. She said shed made numerous phone calls to try and 
establish what was happening with her claim, but it was extremely difficult to get clear 
answers to direct enquiries. 
Miss N stated that after much persuasion my lounge was completed days before Christmas 
2021. However, she felt that the standard of work was poor. Lloyds plumber had reinstalled 
the radiator in the lounge, however it then leaked all over the new flooring. Miss N said that 
in May 2022, work finally began on the kitchen, however it hadnt been carried out in the 
manner and to the standard that shed been led to believe would happen. She felt that the 
contractor had cut corners.
A representative had advised Miss N to provide a snagging list in view of her concerns. This 
list included poorly installed vinyl flooring and skirting in the lounge. As to the kitchen, it 
referenced uneven flooring and skirting. It also referred to failure to paint ceilings throughout. 
Miss N made it clear that she didnt want further work to be carried out by Lloyds teams as 
shed lost all confidence in them. Miss N felt that Lloyds representative had also stated that 
Miss N could indeed obtain her own quote from a family member who was a builder. Hed 
agreed that the work was shoddy, and that Lloyds would also get a quote from a different 
contractor. The contractor attended in December 2022 however, she didnt hear anything 
else regarding the matter.
In summary, Miss N said that shed been left with an uneven floor. Flooring had lifted in both 
the kitchen and lounge, the skirting board was not secured to the floor, which left a gap 
between the skirting board and the floor, incorrect paint was used in the lounge and 
therefore peeled away from the wall, and run marks were also visible. Miss N said the 
stress and trauma caused had been indescribable. Shed spent numerous work lunch breaks 
on the phone constantly chasing and trying to get further forward with the claim. She was 
therefore looking for significant compensation for the long-term distress and inconvenience 
caused, and she didn't believe the increased compensation offered by Lloyds was enough. 
In conclusion, she said that; the whole case has been handled extremely poorly and should 
not still be ongoing after over two years.
I now turn to what Lloyds has said about the matter. By January 2022, it considered that the 
only outstanding issue was redecoration of the affected areas and replacement of the 
kitchen flooring. It didnt consider that painting of ceilings was in the scope of works 
however, as they werent affected by the flood. It acknowledged however that Miss N hadnt 
received clear communication about the works over the following weeks. It said that a cash 
settlement regarding the contents element of Miss Ns claim was paid in March 2022. It also 
approved its contractors amended estimate for the outstanding work at this time. It 
acknowledged however that Miss N had still received no contact from the contractor by April 
2022 and it also then settled Miss Ns claim for alternative accommodation. 
It therefore upheld the service element of Miss Ns complaint. It thought that the likely 
decline should have been made known to Miss N in March 2022, rather than giving the 
impression that the claim would be settled. It apologised that the claims process had not 
been efficient and offered £500 compensation for inconvenience caused. It also offered an 
additional £350 compensation. It said that whilst its final response letter of January 2023 
didnt specifically mention the accident to Miss Ns family member, it did advise that the 
compensation was for the delays and the impact that the issues were having on the family.
Turning to Lloyds case noted, these confirmed that Miss N had expressed concern and her 
unhappiness with the way in which her claim was being handled throughout. The notes 
showed that Miss Ns family member had supplied a quote which was for over £5,000, whilst 
Lloyds considered that the cost of the works would be closer to half that sum. The notes 
indicated that this lower sum was offered to Miss N as a cash settlement in November 2022 
and that she was considering the offer. Having considered all the evidence and submissions, Im satisfied that the view issued by 
the relevant investigator in July 2023 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this long 
outstanding matter. The evidence shows that Lloyds representatives had recognised that 
certain work it had carried out to remedy the damage had been defective. It had also agreed 
that certain works included in the snagging list of defects supplied by Miss N still needed to 
be carried out. I agree with the investigator that, based on the evidence provided, it was not 
unreasonable that Miss N would wish to instruct her own contractor, whether a family 
member or otherwise. In view of the poor standard of work and breakdown in relationship, I 
can understand why she would be reluctant for Lloyds contractor to return to remedy its 
defective work. As such, I agree that she should be allowed to arrange her own repairs.
I agree with Lloyds however that the initial quote obtained by Miss N seems excessive in 
scope and level, bearing in mind the valid items on the snagging list, excluding ceiling 
painting which wouldnt be covered in this instance. In the circumstances, it would be 
reasonable for Miss N to obtain alternative quotes to be assessed by Lloyds engineers and 
for Lloyds to pay a reasonable cash settlement in accordance with its usual guidelines.
As for service failures, Lloyds upheld Miss Ns complaint in this respect and acknowledged 
its communication failures, both between its agents and with Miss N, particularly after Miss N 
had submitted a snagging list. I note that Lloyds initially offered £500 in compensation, but 
later offered an additional £350. I conclude that £850 for the considerable distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss N, is on balance, at a fair and reasonable level. It is 
unfortunately inevitable that a flooding incident of this nature, and the attendant claims 
procedure, in themselves cause considerable distress and disruption. This service however 
only awards compensation in cases where additional distress and inconvenience is caused 
by an insurers service failures or by avoidable delays in processing claims
I have a great deal of sympathy for the ordeal which Miss N has been through over a period 
of two years and Im sure this will have caused anxiety. I can therefore understand why she 
would be looking for significant compensation in the circumstances. However, £850 is within 
the range of payments this service would expect to see for distress and inconvenience 
caused over a period of months and which were caused by service failures. In conclusion, I 
dont expect Lloyds to pay compensation over and above this sum.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Miss Ns complaint and I require Lloyds 
Banks General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) to do the following in response to her complaint: 
- To assess and pay a cash settlement, based on a reasonable scope of works and 
quotes provided by Miss N as well as the cost that Lloyds contractors would have 
charged for such works, within 21 days of submission by Miss N of such quotes.
- If Miss N fails to supply such quotes or refuses such cash settlement, Lloyds shall 
immediately proceed to instruct alternative independent contractors to diligently 
complete the works.
- Unless the sum has already been paid to Miss N, to pay her the £850 offered by 
Lloyds in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Claire JonesOmbudsman