DRN-3618904
The complaint
Mr W says IFT Wealth Management Limited (IFTWM) treated him unfairly by charging him 
excessive fees for the advice it gave him not to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension to 
another provider.
What happened
Mr W was introduced to the idea of having his pension arrangements reviewed by a work 
colleague. He was a member of three group personal pensions, as well as a DB scheme. 
Hed accrued benefits with a former employer between 1990 and 2019. In March 2021 he 
approached IFTWM.
On 16 March 2021 IFTWM sent Mr W information including about its fee structure, terms and 
conditions. It set out its approach to providing abridged and full advice and the differences 
between these. On 18 March 2021 he responded to say he had read and understood the 
documents, including the potential costs he would incur. He confirmed he wanted to 
proceed.
On 19 March Mr W was sent a document titled Defined Benefit transfers. This document 
explained that abridged advice would result in one of two outcomes: a recommendation not 
to transfer or confirmation it was unclear if transferring would be beneficial. On 22 March 
2021 he returned a signed document where he ticked the option to receive abridged advice 
and confirming the fee of £1,500 was applicable.
Over the following months IFTWM undertook work to understand Mr Ws circumstances, 
objectives and attitude to risk. This included reaching out to his pension scheme 
administrator to understand more about his benefits including any guarantees and 
protections they provided.
IFTWM sent Mr W its suitability report dated 27 July 2021. It recommended that he shouldnt 
transfer his pension provision. On 31 August 2021 Mr W responded to the report in the 
following terms:
I have had the chance to read through the report and am obviously disappointed with the 
outcome.
Through our meetings there were no real indications that the transfer wouldnt be possible 
and it was very much implied that the charges would be taken off the pension figure.
I have a number of colleagues that have been through this process and not one of them had 
had the transfer rejected or then been charged £1,500 for the privilege. I feel that this is 
extreme and unfair
IFTWM responded to Mr Ws complaint on 14 September 2021. It rejected his complaint 
making clear its obligations to provide him with advice that was in his best interests. It 
disagreed that it had given him any impression that a transfer would proceed. And it 
considered he wouldve understood the fees payable and that these were fair for the work 
undertaken. Mr W disagreed and brought his case to this Service.
An Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. He 
didnt think IFTWM had done anything wrong. Mr W disagreed and so his case has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by IFTWM for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like IFTWM. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Further, COBS 19.1.6 makes the following specific point about advising on a transfer from 
OPS schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the 
client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, IFTWM was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr W to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr W a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr W understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, IFTWM had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr W on what to do.While Mr W may have formed the idea that it might be a good idea to transfer his DB 
benefits which were worth around £300,000, into a personal pension arrangement, it wasnt 
for IFTWM simply to enable this to happen.
It was IFTWMs role to discern what Mr Ws wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and skill. It 
had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. 
IFTWM was responsible for analysing, testing and challenging Mr W about what was in his 
best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to 
provide for retirement. Transferring benefits is a very significant decision.
From reading IFTWMs suitability report to Mr W, I think it took its obligations to him seriously 
and provided him with appropriate advice.
Concerning the scale of the fees payable by Mr W. Not only do I consider that these were 
set out clearly to him at the outset and that he agreed to them, but I also dont find them 
unusually high. I say this considering the nature and scope of the work IFTWM undertook 
over a period around 4-5 months on his behalf.
I cant comment on the fees faced by Mr Ws colleagues for what he says was similar work. 
Id simply note its likely these wouldve reflected their particular circumstances, requirements 
and agreement with whichever firms advised them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman