DRN-3558508
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr B was looking for investment opportunities online and made contact with a company he 
believed was suitable for his needs. He later discovered the company, and the individuals 
hed been working with, were scammers.
Under the instruction of scammers he set up accounts with third party crypto currency 
trading platforms as he believed this was how he would be investing his money. Mr B 
downloaded software that allowed the scammers access to his device and all of his 
accounts. After his initial investments, the scammers started to tell Mr B his profits were at 
risk unless he continued to transfer more money. In total Mr B paid the scammers 
£57,670.48 in seven separate payments, the largest of which was around £12,000.
Eventually Mr B grew suspicious and refused to send any more. He then found he was 
unable to withdraw any of the funds at which point he realised the situation was a scam.
He reported the matter to HSBC but it didnt feel it was liable for Mr Bs loss. Mr B brought 
the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr B didnt 
accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the payments Mr B made were authorised even though he was the 
victim of a scam. The payments were made by him and under the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs), and the terms and conditions of his account, hes presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
But, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably have measures in place to look for and identify 
transactions that are significantly unusual, out of character or otherwise might indicate 
someone had been the victim of a scam. And, where it reasonably ought to have identified 
such a transaction, it might be appropriate for it to carry out further checks to satisfy itself its 
customer isnt at risk.
There isnt a set formula for what should be considered significantly unusual or a sudden 
change in behaviour. There are a number of different factors that need to be taken into 
account. What Id expect HSBC to be on the look out for as a starting point are any 
transactions that seem significantly unusual based on the use of the account in the months 
leading up to the scam payments.
In the months leading up to the scam Mr B made a payment of over £13,000 and another of 
£20,000. Neither of these payments are disputed. So before he started paying the scammer 
I think there was somewhat of a pattern established where Mr B made high value 
transactions from his account from time to time.
Mr B has said the payment for £20,000 was stopped by HSBC and it asked him further 
security questions about this, which supports that it does in fact have measures in place to 
intervene when it recognises transactions as significantly unusual. And as Mr B was able to 
answer its questions sufficiently it allowed the payment to be made. I think this conversation 
and the assurances Mr B provided reinforced that from time to time, Mr B used his account 
for legitimate high value transactions. Around four months later, he made his first payment to 
scammers, which was for just under £12,000  considerably less than the £20,000 hed 
confirmed was genuine. Given his overall use of the account during this period, I think its 
reasonable HSBC didnt carry out any additional checks into this payment before it was sent.
Mr B has argued that in early November 2020 he sent around £16,000 to scammers within 
two days across three transactions. He feels these transactions combined were a similar 
value to the £20,000 payment so he feels they also ought to have been stopped. I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to stop every transaction over a certain value as this isnt the only factor that 
indicates someone might be at risk. Especially when, as is the case here, a customer does 
legitimately use their account for larger value transactions. Id also add that in the case of 
these three payments, their combined value only wouldve been apparent on the second 
day, when the third transaction was made at which point the previous two had likely already 
left Mr Bs account. 
I dont think its the case that two transactions sent in one day should automatically be 
stopped. There are legitimate reasons someone might want to pay a certain merchant twice 
in a day, for example, when someone is legitimately investing or gambling. And these three 
transactions, even in the case of the two sent on the same day, arent so close together Id 
expect HSBC to have been concerned by their frequency. The transactions dont indicate 
someone was trying to access Mr Bs money as quickly as possible.
Mr B has also suggested HSBC ought to have stopped any payment being made to a crypto 
currency trading platform as these platforms are frequently used in scams. But I dont agree. 
I wouldnt expect HSBC to stop every payment any customer sends to a trading platform as 
these are often legitimately used. And whilst I would expect it to have knowledge of the use 
of this type of account in fraud and scams, once again, there a number of factors Id expect it 
to consider when looking for signs its customer is at risk, not simply take one potential risk 
factor and apply this to every individual transaction on every customer account. HSBC has to 
strike a balance in monitoring accounts and preventing fraud with not unduly hindering a 
customers general use of their account.
Once the matter was reported I can see HSBC did contact the beneficiarys banks to request 
a return of the funds, but all the responses it received were that funds would not be returned. 
I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have done more in this case.
Im very sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr B, I can see its been very difficult for him. 
But overall I dont think HSBC needed to intervene when he made the payments he did to 
scammers. So I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent the payments being made 
and therefore isnt liable for his loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman