DRN-1420566
 
The complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added 
to Mrs M's account at the same time she took out the credit card. This was in a meeting. The 
PPI policy was cancelled in 2004, but there is a balance still outstanding on Mrs M's card.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs M's complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
Barclays had a duty to make it clear to Mrs M that the PPI was optional. Mrs M says that this 
didn't happen and that she was made to have PPI. So I have looked into this. 
Both parties have not recalled in detail what happened in the meeting so i have needed to 
look at documentation from the time of sale to give me a better idea as to what more likely 
than not happened when they met. Ive been able to see the credit card application and I 
don't think it is clear from this form that Barclays did give Mrs M the choice to have PPI. 
When i look through the application form i can see a separate section for PPI where a 
question is asked whether the applicant would like the insurance. But the form that Mrs M 
completed has not aligned well and the box that would have needed to have been crossed 
or ticked to indicate consent has not lined up next to the question about PPI. And the 
automated cross has also not aligned next to the question or in the box either. Mrs M has 
signed next to this cross, but both the automated cross mark and her signature can be found 
aligned next to the next section on the form, that is not about PPI. 
Barclays says that the automated 'X' mark has been mis-aligned on the form but Mrs M has 
clearly signed next to this mark to confirm she wanted PPI. But i disagree with Barclays on 
this point. As I have already mentioned, the automated mark and signature are both situated 
in the next section on the form. I think it is unclear what the automated mark and signature 
refers to on the form and I can't safely conclude that it is in regard to PPI.
Barclays says that its advisers would have followed the industry code at the time when 
selling PPI. But it hasnt been able to give me any evidence to demonstrate that it gave Mrs 
M the choice to have PPI with her card. So I dont know what Barclays said to Mrs M about the policy all I have is an application form. And it is not clear whether PPI was selected or 
not here. 
Ive taken account of Barclays comments about the suitability of the policy for Mrs M. But on 
the basis of the evidence provided, Im not satisfied that it made it clear to her that she had a 
choice about buying the policy. Barclays should have made it clear that the PPI was optional 
at the time it sold it and I haven't seen enough evidence that it did this. So it needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. I understand the PPI has been cancelled, but the credit card account remains open.
A.  Barclays should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her credit card if the 
policy hadnt been added to it. So it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well 
as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. 
 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owes and what she 
would have owed. If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays 
can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
B.  If  when Barclays works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Mrs M would have owed Barclays something on her credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C.  Barclays should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs M's complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and direct it to put things right as 
I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman