DRN-3722898
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the offers Barclays Bank UK PLC has made to him as part of a 
credit card remediation project.
What happened
Following an internal review, Barclays identified that there was a period between 22 March 
2010 and 15 August 2018 when it incorrectly applied interest and/or charges to the credit 
card accounts of some customers with whom it had reached informal arrangements with to 
accept reduced payments.
To remedy the situation, Barclays made basic refunds of interest/charges on three of Mr Ss 
credit card accounts. On a fourth account it also paid compensatory interest in addition to 
the refund. On top of that it paid Mr S £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S is dissatisfied that Barclays has made only one payment of £75 for distress and 
inconvenience and thinks that he should be compensated that amount for each account. 
Furthermore, he says that Barclays has failed to consider a fifth credit card account as part 
of its review.
Our investigator thought that Barclays offer, including the amount for distress and 
inconvenience, was fair. She said that compensatory interest had been paid to the account 
that had been repaid and that refunds had been applied to outstanding balances on other 
accounts. In respect of the fifth account, she said that it was not within the scope of the 
remediation project and so no refund was due.
Mr S disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its letter to Mr S dated 27 July 2022, Barclays explained that it was providing a basic 
refund of £302.87 and compensatory interest (less tax) of £24.59, being a total of £327.46. 
In its final response letter of 23 August 2022 Barclays explained that it had calculated 
compensatory interest from the point at which the current balance on the account went into 
credit, up to and including 30 days following the day of the earlier letter, at 8% simple 
interest (although it mistakenly referred to the entirety of the £327.46 as being a 
compensatory interest payment). Barclays has applied compensatory interest on this card 
because, as the debt was fully cleared at one point, Mr S could have benefitted from having 
the funds instead of using them to pay any interest or charges. So I think the way Barclays 
has calculated and applied this is fair.
In response to our investigator stating that this was because the account had been repaid 
Mr S has said that the account wasnt and isnt paid off. Theres been a slight 
misunderstanding here, particularly because the investigator later went on to describe that 
account as closed and the other accounts as active. To be clear, compensatory interest 
was not paid because the credit card account was paid off and closed. It was paid because 
the account went into credit at some point as explained above.
Barclays says that Mr Ss credit card ending 61002 was not within the scope of the 
remediation project and therefore no refund was due. As mentioned earlier, the specific 
period was 22 March 2010 to 15 August 2018. Barclays review hasnt identified any interest 
or charges being made to the account during the period that Mr S had an informal 
arrangement in place. Ive seen a letter to Mr S from May 2014 in which it has been agreed 
that reduced payments of £47 per month would be accepted for the next 12 months, subject 
to review.
Mr S had provided credit card statements for the period May  August 2018 which show 
interest being applied to the account. He says that, as these dates are within the defined 
period of the remediation project, he was charged interest when he shouldnt have been and 
is therefore due a refund. However, Barclays has now provided evidence that Mr S made his 
last agreed payment of £47 in August 2017. There then followed a period when Mr S failed 
to keep to the agreement and made no payments to the account at all and the informal 
arrangement ultimately came to an end as a result of that.
Barclays continued not to apply interest and charges to the account despite ongoing non-
payment from Mr S as it was entitled to do. It wasnt until March 2018, when Mr S made a 
payment that covered the arrears and minimum amount due, that Mr S subsequently 
returned to maintaining the minimum monthly payments and the account returned to its 
normal contractual terms where interest and/or charges were applied.
The statements that Mr S has provided post-date March 2018.  Looking at the statements 
that Barclays has provided, Im satisfied that Mr S was not charged any interest or fees 
during the period of the informal arrangement between June 2014  March 2018. Mr S was 
asked if he had any evidence that the informal arrangement was still in place at the time that 
he was being charged interest, however he has not responded to this. Based on the 
available evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays has correctly reviewed the account to 
conclude that no refund is due. 
Mr S takes the view that five credit card accounts equals five times the inconvenience and 
therefore he should receive £75 compensation for each account. Mr S had not had to 
contact Barclays or make a complaint in order to receive these refunds. In fact he was 
unaware of any issue and the offers came out of the blue in July 2022. I appreciate Mr S 
says he had to make contact with Barclays after receiving the offers to try and make sense 
of them. However, overall, I am satisfied that Barclays approach is reasonable and that £75 
is a fair amount to compensate Mr S for any distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman