DRN-4146860
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tilney Financial Planning Limited (Tilney) were responsible for 
unsuitable financial advice that led to him transferring benefits in a defined contribution (DC) 
part of his occupational pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Causing his 
pension to lose value.
What happened
Mr K had a pension through his employer and in 2006 was advised by Tilney to transfer part 
of that pension into a SIPP.
In February 2006 around £30,000 was transferred from Mr Ks occupational pension to the 
SIPP. Mr K was a professional sportsperson and his pension had an earlier pension age 
than normal. So the transferred benefits could be taken at any time between the ages of 35 
and 75.
Mr K, complained via a solicitor, in December 2021 about the suitability of the advice hed 
been given in 2006. For ease of reading in this decision, I will treat evidence and comments 
as being from Mr K rather than from his representative. The complaint was that the transfer 
wasnt suitable for Mr K as the subsequent investments didnt match Mr Ks low attitude to 
risk.
Tilney responded to explain that Mr Ks transfer was from the DC part of his occupational 
pension. So he didnt lose any guaranteed or defined benefits by transferring. It explained 
that it didnt have any evidence of the advice Mr K was given at the time. But it rejected 
Mr Ks statement that he didnt have the appropriate attitude for risk for the recommended 
investments to be suitable.
Mr K didnt accept Tilneys answer and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He thought that the charges 
for a SIPP were likely to be higher than those in the original pension scheme offered via his 
occupation. And didnt think that Mr K was likely to have had sufficient experience of 
investments to warrant a SIPP.
Tilney didnt agree with our investigators view. It thought it was more likely that it had 
correctly assessed Mr Ks attitude to risk and that its recommendation was suitable. It 
highlighted that Mr K went on to make investment choices himself that were higher risk in 
nature. These being an unsecured loan and investments in a single equity. So this case was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought this case should be upheld and what 
I thought Tilney should do to put things right. 
In my provisional decision I said
In reaching a decision I have to consider the evidence available, the rules and any industry 
best practice in place at the time. There are times, as is the case here, where evidence is 
incomplete. In such cases I have to weigh up the evidence that is available and decide, on a 
balance of probabilities, what I think happened. 
In this case Tilney have been unable to provide any contemporaneous evidence of the 
recommendation that it provided or its reasoning for that. I understand that doesnt mean 
that a written recommendation wasnt provided to Mr K. Or that Tilney didnt carry out a fact-
find. And I acknowledge that Mr K hasnt retained any advice documentation he received at 
the time either. But it means I am left having to decide, on balance, what that advice may 
have been. 
It is accepted that Mr K had a pension via his occupation prior to the advice process. Ive 
seen evidence of the way that pension was structured. It was made up of two parts. One part 
was made up by contributions from Mr Ks employer to provide a defined amount of benefit 
at the scheme normal retirement age. The second part, made up of Mr Ks contributions, 
was a DC pension arrangement. Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that this 
transfer was from the DC element of Mr Ks pension.
The transfer followed on from whatever advice was provided. Mr K was only 23 and Ive 
seen no evidence that he had any prior financial knowledge to have been acting on his own 
at that time. And were that the case, I think its unlikely he would have undergone an advice 
process if he didnt intend to follow any recommendation. So I think its more likely than not 
that Mr K was acting on the advice hed been given to transfer this part of his pension. 
Ordinarily, I would expect to see that Tilney had carried out a comparison of the benefits of 
Mr Ks existing arrangement with the proposed switch to a SIPP. But Tilney cant provide 
this. Ordinarily, employer provided schemes like this have very low charges. In comparison, 
in 2006, SIPPs usually had higher charges. They were pension products that offered more 
choice of ways to invest, as well as more control for the customer. But this came at a cost. 
Tilney should have weighed this up. Even though this was a switch between two different 
types of DC pensions there should have been a good reason for the switch to make it in 
Mr Ks best interests.
Tilney just isnt able to evidence that a SIPP was more suitable for Mr K than the pension he 
had. £30,000 was not a very large sum to warrant the investment options that a SIPP may 
have opened up. And the investments that were made in the SIPP were mainstream 
investment funds. Whilst those specific funds may not have been available via his original 
scheme, his original scheme did offer a number of funds administered by Standard Life. I 
cant really see why the transfer to a SIPP was better than what he already had. It was more 
likely than not a more expensive product. And I dont think he needed the range of 
investment options it opened up. And increased the likelihood of the need for further reviews 
and investment advice going forward. 
There were other options that Mr K had. These included leaving his pension fund where it 
was (whether in the same or different investment offering) or moving it to a stakeholder 
pension or personal pension. In the absence of a fact find it is now difficult to reconstruct 
what Mr K might instead have done. But Im not sure that there would have been compelling 
reasons to justify Mr K moving his pension fund at all. So, based on the evidence I have, its 
more likely than not that this switch wasnt in Mr Ks best interests and hed have kept his 
pension in the previous scheme in one of its investment options. 
Having concluded that Mr K shouldnt have been advised to transfer his pension to a SIPP 
Ive considered what attitude to risk Mr K may have had at the time. 
Mr K says that he would have had a low attitude to risk in 2006. And that he shouldnt have 
been taking risks with his pension. And Ive considered this. He was 23 years old at the time. And I accept that its unlikely that he had any significant experience or knowledge of 
investments. That doesnt of course mean that he might not have been naturally inclined to 
take some risk. But that should have been tempered by his ability to fully understand those 
risks. It is also worth noting that, at 23, any financial advice ought to have identified that he 
needed to take some risk in order for his pension fund to grow over the investment term. 
Which, given the number of working years that remained for Mr K, was potentially a long 
term.
Mr K may not have expected the career he had at that time to be long. But that didnt 
necessarily mean that he would be unable to continue to work after that career ended. The 
potential for him to continue to contribute to his eventual pension and therefore recover from 
any investment losses meant that he had some capacity for loss on this pension. Especially 
given the fact that this was not even his entire pension provision at the time. He still had the 
defined benefit part of his scheme. So I dont think its likely that recommended investments 
with no or little risk would have been suitable for someone with capacity for loss and a 
requirement for fund growth over a longer term.
Tilney ask that consideration is given to the choices that Mr K made later. And I have looked 
at these. Ive seen that, around 2016, he moved all of his funds from the investment choices 
that had been set up following the advice Tilney gave him. And proceeded to use his SIPP to 
provide an unsecured business loan. And later made large investments with the rest of the 
fund into a single listed companies shares. This removed diversification in his SIPP and 
exposed him to a large element of unregulated investment. It was a high risk approach to 
this fund. I dont know what led to this. But can see that by 2016 Mr Ks position had 
changed. He was no longer a professional sportsperson and was the director of a company 
since 2014. The types of risk he may have viewed as acceptable at that time arent 
necessarily the same as he did in 2006. So I cant conclude these later choices can be used 
to draw reliable conclusions about his attitude or understanding 10 years earlier.
Overall, and in the absence of evidence from Tilney from the time, Im inclined to add weight 
to Mr Ks testimony. So, for the reasons given I think its likely he would have had a lower to 
balanced attitude to risk.
I havent considered the suitability of the balance of the investment funds his SIPP invested 
in because I dont think he should have been advised to transfer to the SIPP. It means that, 
had suitable advice been given, I dont think he would have transferred. So those 
investments would not have been made. But an understanding of Mr Ks likely attitude to risk 
at the point of advice is relevant in determining what Tilney need to do to put things right.
I will now explain my decision on the extent of the impact of Tilneys advice. It led to Mr K 
being in a pension that potentially had a higher charging structure and being exposed to 
investments that may have been higher risk than were suitable. But those funds were all 
regulated investment funds. 
Ive seen that in 2016, some 10 years after the advice was received, Mr K took a very 
different approach to investing with this pension. And I dont think I can link the choices he 
made in 2016 to the advice Tilney gave him. I cant conclude that Tilney recommended or 
envisaged the SIPP being used in that way 10 years later. I understand that investing in this 
way was possible because of the type of pension his SIPP was. But Mr K could still have 
done these things with his pension in 2016 by transferring to a SIPP at that point if he 
wished. 
For the above reasons Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. But I only think that its fair to hold 
Tilney responsible for any losses that Mr K might have suffered by transferring to the SIPP 
until the point that he moved away from the position the advice put him in. He started releasing cash from his investments, held in an investment account with Fidelity 
Investments, to use in other ways in June 2016. So I think that means any loss should only 
be calculated until 31 May 2016.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
Tilney responded to say it accepted my findings subject to clarification on a couple of points. 
Firstly it noted that it wouldnt have authority to approach third parties for information about 
Mr Ks accounts. So it would need Mr K to provide that information. It queried the way that 
notional tax should be treated should compensation be due. And it queried the way that it 
should adjust any loss figure for lost investment returns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both Tilney and Mr K for their prompt responses to my provisional decision. 
Neither party has provided any further evidence or comment for me to consider about the 
merits of the case. Having considered everything in this case again, my final decision is the 
same as the one I reached in my provisional decision.
I uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons that I gave in my provisional decision, that 
Ive set out above. 
The issues that Tilney have raised were not objections to my explanation of why I thought 
Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. But related to what I thought it needed to do to put things 
right. So I will address those below. 
Putting things right
Mr K has never set out what he considers to be the extent of his losses. Or how he actually 
thinks that they came about. If the bulk of those losses have come about because of the 
choices that were made after 2016, then Im afraid that my decision will come as a 
disappointment. But it may be the case that Mr K would have been in a better position by 
2016 had he not been given unsuitable advice by Tilney in 2006. And it is this that I think 
Tilney should calculate. And compensate Mr K for if it shows a loss.
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr K would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr K's 
circumstances and likely objectives when he invested.
I dont know whether or not the loss calculation that Im directing will show that Mr K has 
suffered any financial loss. But if it does, that means that Mr K would have had more 
money in his pension at the end date. I dont think that Mr Ks circumstances are such that 
he would have withdrawn it as benefits. If I thought that were the case I may consider 
awarding interest of 8% as Tilney have suggested. On balance though, I think that its more 
likely than not that the loss would also have been subject to investment growth too. Without 
knowing exactly how that may have been invested, I still think the most reasonable way to 
account for potential investment growth on any loss is to use the same index throughout the calculation. As I set out in my provisional decision.
What must Tilney do?
To compensate Mr K fairly, Tilney must:
Compare the performance of Mr K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss Tilney should also calculate notional investment returns on that 
loss using the below benchmark from the end date to the date it is told Mr K 
accepts my decision. And add that to the loss figure to determine the total 
compensation payable.
Tilney should pay into Mr K's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Tilney is unable to pay the compensation into Mr K's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan Mr K now 
holds as a result of Tilneys unsuitable advice, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure 
the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr K 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. Tilney have said that 
Mr K wouldnt have had an entitlement to take a tax free lump sum from his ceding 
scheme. But this adjustment isnt related to that. It is to account for the 
circumstance where Tilney is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ks current 
pension plan. And in that plan, Mr K is likely to be able to take a tax free lump sum, 
so the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an 
overall reduction of 15%.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Corporate & 
Professional 
Pensions Ltd 
SIPPNo longer 
in forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds9 Feb 2006 31 May 
2016N/A
Actual value
This means the actual value of the investment at the end date. I understand that 
Corporate and Professional Pensions Ltd (the SIPP provider) went into administration prior 
to Mr Ks complaint being referred to us. So Tilney may be unable to obtain the SIPP value 
on the end date from the SIPP administrators. If that is the case, Mr Ks SIPP platform held 
two elements at that time  an investment account with Fidelity Investments and a bank 
account with RBS. Tilney can alternatively reconstruct the value of Mr Ks SIPP on the end 
date from those two sources. Tilney have correctly pointed out that it will need Mr Ks 
authority to obtain such information in order to be able to do this. And, where Mr K accepts 
my decision, I would expect Mr K to provide it.
Im not able to direct Mr K in this decision, and am conscious that Tilney will have no 
control over whether or not third parties cooperate. So, if Tilney are unable to calculate the 
actual value in the above ways, then it should use the closest actual valuation to the date in 
question that our service has. That is a valuation Mr K was provided on 17 July 2017. This 
was after he had moved all investments from Fidelity Investments and had made the 
unsecured loan and an element of investing via a stock trading platform. Nonetheless, 
Mr Ks SIPP value at that point was £47,192.98.
Fair value
This is what the transferred value would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark above. If, in calculating the actual value as directed above, 
Tilney have to use the default valuation on 17 July 2017 it should instead use that as the 
end date in calculating the fair value.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Tilney should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr K's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr K into that position. It does not mean that Mr K would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr K could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Tilney must pay the compensation within 90 days of the date on which we tell it Mr K accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest, at the rate of 8% per year 
simple, on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Tilney Financial Planning Limited should pay 
Mr K the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman