DRN-4005585
The complaint
Mr H complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) handled a 
chargeback request and a subsequent claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), 
which was ultimately turned down.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Hs because they stem from a 
credit card agreement in his sole name. But as the transaction in question relates to a 
contract entered into by him and Mrs H, Ill refer to Mr & Mrs H at times throughout this 
decision.   
What happened
Mr H holds a credit card account with AESEL with his wife designated as an additional card 
holder. 
In November 2017, while on holiday at a location outside of the UK, Mr and Mrs H 
purchased membership of a holiday club product with a holiday company (the supplier). 
The total cost of the membership was US $29,963. Mr and Mrs H paid an initial 25% deposit 
of US $7,490.75 using a card issued on Mr Hs AESEL credit card account. The purchase 
contract required further payments to be made on specified dates and at specified periods 
thereafter.
In December 2017, having returned to the UK, Mrs H asked AESEL to initiate a chargeback 
as both Mr and Mrs H believed the product theyd purchased had been misrepresented to 
them during the sales meeting theyd attended. 
In March 2018, AESEL confirmed to Mr H that the chargeback request had been 
unsuccessful as the supplier had provided documentary evidence to support the transaction. 
Unhappy with AESELs decision, Mr and Mrs H complained. They said:
Discounted holiday options/free additional days/room upgrades etc. were not as 
they were told;
They were coerced into signing a contract that did not give us any of the benefits 
presented;
The signing of the contract was done electronicallywas hard to see on the 
screen,,,at a very quick pacedifficult to see or digest;
the agreement is circa 30 pages loan and would have taken several more hours to 
fully read and even longer to understand; and
There were (related) witnesses available to verify events.
Mr and Mrs H also referred to Section 75 of the CCA and AESELs obligations under that. 
But, having not received AESELs final response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs H referred 
their case to this service. AESEL opened a formal complaint in July 2018 and initiated Mr Hs 
claim under section 75 of the CCA requesting further information from Mrs H. 
AESEL responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint on 23 July 2018. They didnt agree they 
made mistakes or errors in the handling of their chargeback request. But they did agree they 
shouldve raised a section 75 claim. As an apology they paid Mr and Mrs H £100.
Having completed an investigation of Mr and Mrs Hs claim under section 75 of the CCA, 
AESEL said they hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support their suggestion that the 
holiday product purchased had been misrepresented to them. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so complained again to AESEL in October 2018. They 
thought AESEL had:
ignored the conclusion of their legal advisor that the transaction was a scam;
made no effort to contact witnesses; and
not considered other similar complaints made by other AESEL cardholders.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and reached a view. She thought Mr and 
Mrs Hs testimony detailing what they believe they were told was plausible. And because this 
differed from the contract theyd entered into, this amounted to misrepresentation. Our 
investigator thought AESEL should refund the amount paid together with any associated 
interest theyd charged plus 8% simple interest per year from when the amount was applied 
to Mr Hs account.
AESEL didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that Mr Hs complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 09 February 2023  giving Mr H and AESEL the opportunity to 
respond to my findings before I reached a final decision. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Was the chargeback request mishandled?
Mr Hs original complaint related to AESELs handling of Mrs Hs chargeback request 
in December 2017. He told this service AESEL:
had failed to respond in writing within an eight week period;
failed to provide an explanation of their decision when requested; and
failed in their duty to adhere to the rules (of chargebacks).
It appears AESEL refunded the amount in dispute when the chargeback request was 
first made, which is what I would expect here. And this was also confirmed in a letter 
suggesting an estimated resolution date of 5 February 2018. At this stage, its 
important to acknowledged that a chargeback request isnt the same as a complaint. 
So, isnt covered by the timescales specified within the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbooks dispute rules (DISP). So, AESEL werent obliged to provide a 
final resolution within eight weeks. 
AESEL requested information from Mr H to support the request before submitting 
details to the product suppliers bank. Once received, the suppliers bank were asked 
to provide any documentation and evidence to support the legitimacy of the original 
payment. That bank then needed to liaise with the supplier (their customer) to obtain 
the requested evidence. If the suppliers bank accepts the chargeback, or doesnt 
respond within 45 days, the chargeback is normally complete, and Mr H retains his 
money. The agent of the supplier provided a written response dated 1 February 2018 
referring to a chargeback claim dated 15 January 2018. They also provided the 
supporting documentation requested. While its unclear when AESEL ultimately 
received this information, it appears to have been within 45 days of the suggested 
claim date, which is what I would expect here. And because the information 
appeared to support the transaction, the chargeback request wasnt upheld. 
AESEL explained this in a letter to Mr H. Based upon the information Ive seen; I 
think this was a reasonable outcome. So, I cant fairly say AESEL did anything wrong 
here.
AESELs failure to initiate a section 75 claim
I think Mr Hs letter to AESEL in March 2018 was clear in setting out his expectation 
that they should deal with his claim under section 75 of the CCA. But AESEL didnt 
do that and didnt actually initiate the claim until July 2018.
AESEL have accepted they didnt acknowledge Mr Hs request for such a claim and 
so he didnt receive the level of service he should expect when handling his dispute. 
As a consequence, they paid £100 into Mr Hs account as a gesture of goodwill. And 
in the circumstances, I think that was a fair response.
Was the product purchased misrepresented? 
Mr and Mrs H paid for the holiday product using a credit card issued by AESEL, so it 
isnt in dispute that section 75 applies here. This means that Mr H could normally 
claim against AESEL, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by 
the product supplier (or their representative) in the same way he couldve claimed 
against that supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case. 
There were various parties involved in the transaction here. They include the parties 
to the mediation contract, the mediator themself, the recipient of the payment and the 
ultimate supplier of the holiday club product. Each partys role differs, so I would 
normally first seek to determine whether the right arrangement was in place to 
engage the protection offered under section 75. However, given my findings below I 
dont think thats necessary here.
Its also relevant to mention that the mediation contract associated with the purchase 
wasnt governed by UK law. And it isnt clear what misrepresentation laws, if any, 
exist under that jurisdiction or whether negligent misrepresentation is recognised by 
that jurisdictions associated courts.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the UKs definition of a misrepresentation 
as an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second 
party which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them 
loss. In order to find a misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a 
false statement of fact has been made and it needs to be decided that any false 
statement induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into the agreement.
In their testimony, Mr and Mrs H allege they were verbally misinformed of various 
benefits available to them under the holiday membership agreement. And they said it 
was those verbal misrepresentations, witnessed by other (related) parties, they relied 
upon when deciding to purchase the holiday product.
Its important to recognise that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, 
incongruent or contradictory, my decision is made on the balance of probabilities  
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened given the evidence thats available from the time and the wider 
circumstances.The contract pack provided to this service is a detailed document that sets out key 
information about the product membership, amounts payable and the terms and 
conditions that apply. Accepting the detailed nature of the contract entered into, I 
think the document clearly explains the benefits Mr and Mrs H would receive together 
with any associated conditions and costs that apply. So, Ive considered this, along 
with Mr and Mrs Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
Each document within the contract pack includes Mr and Mrs Hs signature. But Mr 
and Mrs H say that they signed an electronic/tablet device which automatically 
applied their signatures to the contract. 
The supplier has also provided a copy of a document entitled Membership Benefits 
Summary which it appears was completed, signed, initialled and dated on the day of 
the sales presentation. This appears to have been signed as a hard copy, rather than 
electronically. I say that because, although the signatures appear to match those on 
the contract, they vary sufficiently to persuade me that was the case. It also appears 
that Mr and Mrs H initialled next to each benefit in turn. Again, the initials are 
consistent in appearance but do vary sufficiently from one to another to suggest they 
were applied at the time in person, rather than electronically.
Ive considered the points made by Mr and Mrs H here. Its clear their interpretation 
of what they were told about the product benefits, conditions and costs varies from 
what Ive seen in the contract and the benefits summary. I accept that their 
understanding of what they were sold may differ from what the relevant paperwork 
suggests they were sold. But, based on everything thats been said and/or provided 
so far, while I certainly dont doubt the honesty of their recollections, Im not 
persuaded that there were one or more representations that were factually untrue. 
Summary
Given the jurisdiction governing the Mediation Contract here, even if the applicable 
law was very similar to UK law, such that a material misrepresentation has to have 
been factually untrue, I havent found anything that persuades me there were any 
untrue statements of fact made by the suppliers agent that induced Mr and Mrs H to 
complete the purchase. Because of that, while I do appreciate Mr H will be 
disappointed, I dont intend asking AESEL to do anything different here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to stress that my review of Mr Hs complaint has been conducted separately and 
independently from any previous investigations and/or assessments completed by this 
services investigator(s). This is important in order that I can arrive at a truly impartial and 
independent decision. Ultimately, I need to decide whether AESELs response to Mr Hs 
claim was unreasonable based upon the information and evidence available.
AESEL responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing more to add.
Mr H doesnt accept the findings in my provisional decision. He doesnt dispute there was a 
contract, rather that he believes the contract was mis-sold and witnessed by six other 
(related) parties. And neither the supplier nor their agent(s) have put forward any witnesses 
themselves. Mr H emphasises he believes statements made by the suppliers agent were all 
based upon wild claims that were greatly exaggerated.
In my provisional decision, I explained that where there appears to be conflicting information 
or recollections, I need to base my findings on the balance of probabilities considering all the information and evidence thats available from when the purchase took place. Importantly, 
where verbal recollections differ, I need to find something that supports those recollections. 
In Mr Hs case, while I appreciate and acknowledge everything hed said. I havent found any 
strong evidence that supports the claims he says were made by the suppliers agents. 
Because of that, I cant reasonably conclude or say with any certainty that the suppliers 
agent wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the contract 
documentation.
Mr H has pointed me towards articles and reports he says are publicly available on various 
internet sites. He says they support his experience and the alleged misrepresentations. But 
Im only able to consider circumstances and evidence specific to Mr Hs own experience 
here. I cant consider reports relating to other unrelated sales or experiences as Ive no 
specific knowledge of those, or access to any of the associated evidence.
Mr H stresses again that he didnt receive any documentation from the supplier or their agent 
until after expiry of any withdrawal/cancellation period. As such, he says he wasnt able to 
digest or evaluate the contract more fully.
The contract Mr H agreed to and signed gave him five days to change his mind and cancel 
it. And Mr H hasnt denied that he was allowed this period to cancel. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the contract falls under a legal jurisdiction outside of the UK. So, the UK 
Timeshare Regulations 2010 wouldnt apply here. It isnt clear what - if any - timeshare 
regulations do apply to this contract. So, I cant reasonably say the cooling off period didnt 
meet that jurisdictions requirements. And while I accept that Mr H says he didnt receive 
copies of the documentation, I also cant reasonably say there was a breach of any 
regulations that may have applied.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service is 
to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an ombudsman can be 
legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal service. Mr H says 
that if his complaint isnt upheld, he intends to take further legal action to recover what he 
paid. And if he doesnt accept my decision, he will be entitled to do that.
Having considered everything very carefully, I cant reasonably say that AESELs response 
to Mr Hs claim was unreasonable here. I realise Mr H didnt accept my provisional findings. 
But having thought about everything he has said in response, I havent been persuaded to 
vary from those in my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman