DRN-2913023
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that while he was living abroad, a property he owned and rented out in the 
UK was repossessed and sold by Barclays Bank UK PLC without his knowledge. He 
believes that the property was sold below market value and that Barclays owes him around 
£47,000. 
What happened
In 2003 Mr V took a mortgage with Barclays to buy a property to live in. Mr V has told us that 
he moved out of the property in 2005 when he went to work abroad, but a family member 
continued living in the property. The mortgage went into arrears in 2008. Payment plans 
were entered into and broken and eventually Barclays started possession proceedings. In 
September 2011 Mr V repaid the arrears that had built up on the mortgage account.  
Barclays changed the correspondence address on its records to the overseas address Mr V 
had given it.
However, Mr V didnt make any further payments to the mortgage and it immediately went 
into arrears again. Barclays wrote to him at the address he had given it in September 2011, 
but the correspondence was returned. It also wrote to the mortgaged address, but it received 
no contact from Mr V. As such, Barclays resumed the possession proceedings.
An order for possession was granted on 19 April 2012. The warrant of possession was 
granted in August 2012 and Barclays took possession of the property. The property was sold 
in December 2012 for around £230,000, which was more than Mr V owed Barclays. The 
surplus funds were passed to the solicitors appointed to Mr V. However, as no contact was 
able to be made with Mr V after various searches were completed, the funds were 
subsequently lodged with the court.
In September 2020 Mr V contacted Barclays after returning to the UK and discovering the 
property had been repossessed. He complained that hed had no communication from 
Barclays about the matter. 
Barclays responded and explained that Mr V had been allocated solicitors to represent him 
in 2012 for the possession process. The courts had granted a possession order in 2012. A 
copy of all the relevant documentation had been issued to the solicitors acting for Mr V, 
whose responsibility it was to get in touch with him. Barclays didnt consider it had made any 
errors during the processes involved, so it didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr V wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he referred the complaint to this service. He 
said the response didnt have the detailed information that he requested, such as the names 
of the solicitors that represented him and Barclays. He also mentioned asking for evidence 
of the searches it had done in order to try and trace him. Mr V said that as he had given 
Barclays solicitors a letter from his overseas address in relation to the 2011 possession 
proceedings, Barclays would have known where to find him in 2012 before the property was 
repossessed.  Mr V commented that when he looked at a property website, it didnt detail the 
2012 sale and he believes this happens when a property is sold undervalue.
Mr V also explained that he had moved abroad in 2005. He had left the management of the 
property in the hands of a letting agency. The rental proceeds were paying the mortgage. 
Unfortunately, there was a problem with the letting agency and the payments to the 
mortgage stopped.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it was upheld. 
He accepted that Barclays attempted to contact Mr V several times at the address he had 
given it. However, the correspondence had been returned and there was no contact from 
Mr V. He was satisfied that Barclays made reasonable attempts to contact Mr V after the 
mortgage fell into arrears in the autumn of 2011. In relation to Mr Vs concern that the 
property had been sold undervalue, the investigator concluded there was no evidence that 
this was the case. 
Mr V didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that there should have been no 
problems with correspondence being sent to his address abroad as there was a concierge 
that would have held onto the post if he wasnt there. In addition, his wife was living in the 
mortgaged property. He said that, while it had taken him some time to find out what had 
happened to the property, Barclays could have contacted him by email or telephoned him on 
his overseas number during the possession process. He could then have caught up with 
payments. In addition, he questioned why Barclays couldnt have deposited the money he 
was entitled to from the sale in an account he still held at that time with Barclays. He asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
The investigator acknowledged that Barclays could have tried to contact him via his email 
address. However, he pointed out that Mr V had a responsibility to manage his property, and 
the mortgage on it, himself  which he had failed to do as he hadnt ensured the mortgage 
was paid. That was what ultimately led to the property being repossessed. He also didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Barclays to lodge the surplus funds from the sale with the 
courts, as it wouldnt have been appropriate for Barclays to decide where the money should 
be sent or for it to hold the funds any longer than it did.
Mr V questioned the speed at which Barclays had moved to repossess the property after the 
arrears started to accrue again. He also pointed out that the regulator required a business to 
make reasonable attempts to resolve a situation, such as arrears, before moving to 
possession. He didnt think it had done so. He also didnt think Barclays had acted 
appropriately in relation to the surplus money from the sale. Mr V acknowledged that he bore 
some responsibility for what happened, but a little bit of care on Barclays part would have 
resulted in a different outcome. 
The investigator considered Mr Vs further comments, but he didnt change his conclusions. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first consider the matter of Mr Vs belief that the property was sold for less than it was 
worth in 2012. Barclays explained to Mr V the process it went through before selling the 
property. That being that it obtained two valuations from surveyors and two from local estate 
agents. The estate agents also recommended asking prices for the property. The property 
was then placed on the market using the higher of the two suggested asking prices, which 
was higher than all four valuations. I see nothing wrong with this process and four opinions 
as to the value of the property was more than we would usually expect in such circumstances. 
Mr V was asked by our investigator for the evidence he had relied on when hed concluded 
the property had been sold at less than its market value. He didnt provide anything that 
evidenced a value for the property in 2012. In light of this and the process Barclays went 
through before marketing the property, I cant find that Barclays did anything wrong in this 
regard. 
As our investigator pointed out, it is a borrowers responsibility to ensure that their mortgage 
is paid. Mr V has told us he had an account from which the mortgage payments were made, 
and when the property was rented out, the rent was paid into. He also confirmed that at the 
end of 2011 and into 2012 when Barclays was writing to him about the arrears on the 
mortgage, the property was being lived in by relatives. As such, Mr V would have been 
aware that he had to ensure sufficient funds were being deposited into the relevant account 
to pay the mortgage. It doesnt appear he did this as the mortgage went into arrears 
immediately after he made his payment in September 2011. I think reasonably he should 
have been aware the mortgage wasnt being paid.
Mr V has said that he doesnt think Barclays made enough effort to make him aware that the 
mortgage was in arrears again. Barclays wrote to him at both his overseas address and the 
property address, where hes confirmed his wife was living. I think it made reasonable 
attempts to contact him about the situation. I note that Barclays had an email address for 
Mr V and he believes it should have used that address. Most lenders dont used email as 
standard to correspond about mortgages because the security of the information contained 
cant be guaranteed. In addition, it had evidence that the physical address Mr V had given it 
at the same time as the email address was invalid, so it doesnt seem unreasonable for 
Barclays to have reverted to using the mortgaged property address. This would be 
supported by Mr Vs confirmation that his family was living in the property, which would 
indicate he would have had access to the correspondence sent to him there.
Due to the time that has elapsed since the events complained about, Barclays cant provide 
details of the searches it made for Mr V. However, it has records of having done so and I see 
no reason to question that it did. Having not found a current address for Mr V so that it could 
take instruction, Barclays lodged the money with the court. While Mr V believes Barclays 
could have paid the money into an account he had with it at that time, that wouldnt have 
been appropriate. As Barclays has said, given the problems itd had contacting him, it would 
have needed instruction and proof of identification before it could have paid the money out. 
In this evidences absence, it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to do what it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 
15 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman