DRN-4130932
The complaint
Mr G complains that GPUK LLP (trading as Global Payments) failed to defend a chargeback.
Mr G wants Global Payments to refund the chargeback amount.
Mr G is a sole trader trading as C.
What happened
Mr G had an agreement with Global Payments to provide merchant processing for card 
payments for C. 
In 2022, C manufactured and installed an item for a customer who had paid a deposit using 
their credit card. After C started to fit the item, the customer changed their mind and C took 
the item back. 
Global Payments later received a chargeback from the customers credit card provider and 
debited the amount from Cs bank account. 
The customer said the item was fitted on 9 September 2022 and as they werent happy with 
the fit, C collected it on 17 September and agreed to refund the deposit. Global Payments 
asked Mr G to provide evidence that the customer was made aware of and agreed to Cs 
return policy. 
Mr G told Global Payments that although there were some issues with fitting the item - which 
were outside Cs control  the customer had been happy with the result and was working 
with C to finish the job. Mr G said the customer had the item for two and a half weeks before 
saying they were unhappy. As a gesture of goodwill, Mr G says C removed the item but 
didnt agree to refund the deposit.
Global Payments asked Mr G to provide evidence that the customer had the item for longer 
than two weeks and that they were satisfied with the work carried out. Global Payments also 
asked for a copy of Cs terms of business with evidence that these had been disclosed to the 
customer when the transaction was carried out.
After Mr G responded, Global Payments said it didnt think there was enough proof that Cs 
terms of business were properly disclosed and agreed by the cardholder. So, it couldnt 
defend the chargeback. In Global Payments final response, it said the information Mr G 
provided wasnt enough as Cs customer was claiming the item didnt fit. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be upheld. In summary, the 
investigator said that Cs terms of business allow a customer to return an item for a full 
refund within 14 days of delivery. Mr G didnt dispute receiving the goods back on 17 
September 2022 and the investigator thought hed not provided evidence to show when the 
item was delivered or that the customer was happy with it when it was first received. So, the 
investigator thought Global Payments acted reasonably when it said it couldnt defend the 
chargeback. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. He provided copies of messages with the 
customer discussing the item. Mr G also provided details of email conversations with the 
fitter which said that the customer had cancelled the fitters visit. Mr G says the customer 
was in the wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Global Payments followed the chargeback process correctly 
and I dont think it needs to refund money to Mr G. 
The Merchant Operating Instructions (MOI) provided to Mr G by Global Payments explain 
that a chargeback is a disputed transaction and that each chargeback has specific rules, 
regulations, and time limits. Global Payments, as payment processor, doesnt hold the role 
of defending a chargeback  the bank is responsible for this. Instead, Global Payments role 
is to provide evidence from its customer  in his case Mr G trading as C  so that it can put 
forward a defence to the chargeback. 
Cs customer claimed that the item wasnt as described and that a refund was agreed but not 
processed. So, Global Payments asked for evidence to dispute this, including something to 
show that the customer was aware of Cs return policy. When Mr G responded to say that 
the customer had the item for more than two weeks and was initially happy with it, Global 
Payments asked for evidence of this. So, Im satisfied that Global Payments took reasonable 
steps to try and obtain evidence to defend the chargeback. 
Although Mr G has provided some exchanges of messages with the customer, I havent 
seen evidence that the customer was initially happy with the item. Instead, the messages 
indicate that the customer needed C to carry out additional work to make the item fit. 
I also cant see that the customer had the item for longer than two weeks. The messages 
indicate that C arranged to visit the customer to fit the item on 9 September 2022 before it 
was returned to C on 17 September 2022  8 days later. 
Global Payments MOI says that where an item isnt as described  as is alleged here - if the 
cardholder returns the goods the merchant is required to reimburse the cardholder with the 
total value of the returned goods immediately. Although I understand Mr Gs point that the 
customer was at fault and that he didnt agree to refund the deposit, I dont have enough 
evidence to support what Mr G says. Instead, it appears that the customer wasnt happy with 
the item, returned it in under two weeks and was therefore eligible for a refund in line with 
Cs terms of business. 
Based on the information Mr G supplied to Global Payments, I dont think the decision not to 
defend the chargeback was unreasonable. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Gemma BowenOmbudsman