DRN-4261366
The complaint
Mr B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited applied an excessive increase to his 
motor insurance premium. 
What happened
Mr B insured his car (Car A) with RSA. For the policy year 2022/23 he was charged a 
premium of £283. This included some optional extras. During the policy year he bought a 
used car (Car B). It was a newer version of the same model as Car A. He wished to insure 
Car B on his RSA policy. So in November 2022 RSA removed Car A from his policy and 
replaced it with Car B. It charged an additional £40 to cover the remainder of the policy year. 
That was a pro-rata charge based on an annual premium of £388 for Car B.
In March 2022 RSA offered to renew the cover for Car B  for policy year 2023/24. It quoted 
a premium of £476.  Mr B wasnt happy with the increase so contacted RSA. To lower the 
premium two optional extras were removed. This resulted in a total premium of around £400.
Mr B wasnt satisfied so complained. In May 2023 RSA responded. It didnt accept it had 
acted unfairly when increasing his premium. He wasnt satisfied so came to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt agree RSA had acted unreasonably when setting Mr Bs renewal 
premium. Mr B didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt usually make judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess 
risk, the risk assessment it makes or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But there 
are aspects of price that we will look into further, depending on whats relevant in the 
circumstances. These include discrimination, mistakes, misleading information and restricted 
choice.
Ive considered everything Mr B and RSA have provided. Having done so, Ive no reason to 
believe RSA provided misleading information about the renewal premium or made a mistake 
when setting it. Neither can I say Mr B faced a restricted choice. It seems he likely could find 
other providers if he wished but prefers to stay with RSA.  
Finally Ive considered if Mr B experienced discrimination. Ive looked to see if he was 
treated differently to the way other consumers would have been in the same circumstances. 
Having done so, Im satisfied he was most likely treated consistently with RSAs general 
approach to pricing.
Mr B says the renewal price was 68%. However, that isnt comparing like for like. Thats the 
increase when considering the 2022/23 policy for Car A against the 2023/24 renewal for 
Car B. The correct comparison is to compare what he would have been charged for Car B 
for a full year in 2022/23 against what he was quoted for 2023/24 for Car B  that was £388 
to £476. Thats an increase of about 23%, not 68%. RSA reports that as being within the 
typical range of price increases.
RSAs explained the renewal premium was based on its latest view of the risk for the details 
provided  this included Car B. Whilst both cars are of the same make and model Car B was 
about seven years newer. RSAs explained why it considers that car to present a different 
risk to Car A  and so incurs a higher premium. I wont share the exact reasons as that 
information may be commercially sensitive. But its explanation seems reasonable  and I 
havent seen anything to persuade me Mr B wasnt treated consistently with RSAs general 
approach to pricing.  
Mr Bs made various points about the wider cost of insurance, inflation rates and a Select 
Committees interest in insurance premium increases. Im not going to address those points 
individually. Firstly its not for this service to involve itself in some of his wider points about 
price increases in general. Secondly, many of Mr Bs points were made with reference to his 
68% figure that I feel isnt reasonable to use. For example, he compared that figure to 
insurance industry reports of claim costs increasing by 30%. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman