DRN-4469071
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly gave him a fixed sum loan agreement 
he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr S applied for a fixed sum loan with Zopa. He declared the loan was to be 
used to consolidate existing debts. The loan was for £20,000 and Mr S was required to 
repay 18 monthly repayments of around £1,300. 
In March 2023, Mr S complained to Zopa to say that the loan should not have been given to 
him. He said that at the time he had a gambling problem which had resulted in him 
accumulating large unsecured debts with credits cards of around £20,000. Zopa responded 
to say it didnt think it had acted unfairly when lending to Mr S.
I sent Mr S and Zopa my provisional decision on 9 November 2023. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Prior to lending to Mr S, Zopa needed to ensure it completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks Zopa needed to 
complete because what is considered proportionate will vary with each lending 
decision. When deciding what level of checks ought to have been reasonable and 
proportionate Zopa needed to take into account things such as (but not limited to): 
the amount borrowed, the term, the cost of credit, the size of the regular repayments 
and Mr S circumstances.
This was a loan for £20,000 to be repaid in a relatively short timeframe with 
significant monthly repayments of around £1,300. Therefore, my starting point is that 
proportionate affordability checks ought to have been quite thorough.
As part of the application Mr S declared that he was employed earning an annual 
income of £75,000. Zopa calculated this to be around £4,300 per month. Mr S said 
that he was renting and paying £600 per month for this.
Zopa also completed a credit check which showed that Mr S had around £20,500 in 
outstanding unsecured debts. These were four credit cards and a mail order account. 
It calculated that his monthly debt repayments to these was around £1,000. There 
was no indication from the credit check that Mr S was struggling to manage these 
debts.
While Im mindful that this was a large loan over a short term with a large monthly 
payment, I have to also consider that Mr S declared he was using it for debt 
consolidation. The amount he was seeking to borrow was almost exactly the amount 
of his outstanding debt. Therefore, it seemed likely that all of Mr S existing debts 
would be repaid by the Zopa loan meaning his overall unsecured debt would be 
unlikely to increase.
I have to also consider that Mr S had an above average income with what appeared 
to be a healthy amount of disposable income available to him after all his essential 
costs were taken into consideration. This, coupled with no evidence from his credit 
file of an inability to sustainably manage a debt of £20,000 would understandably 
have given Zopa some comfort about the affordability of the loan. However, from 
what I can see, Zopa didnt attempt to verify in any way what Mr S declared regarding 
his income.
The rules and guidance within the regulators handbook set out that it is generally not 
sufficient to rely on a statement of income from the applicant without some 
independent evidence. While there will be exceptions to that, I dont think those are 
likely to apply in circumstances such as this where the loan amount is large, as are 
the regular repayments. Notwithstanding some of the points I made earlier in this 
provisional decision, I dont think Zopa carried out proportionate affordability checks. I 
think it ought to have at least verified Mr S income in some way and asked Mr S 
about some of his other essential expenditure, such as bills, food and travel 
expenses.
Had Zopa sought to verify Mr S income, I dont think its likely it would have 
uncovered any concerns. It appears Mr S regular monthly pay was around £200 less 
each month (£4,100) than what Zopa had estimated based on his declared annual 
income. I dont think this discrepancy would have made any meaningful difference to 
the lending decision.
I cant be sure exactly what Mr S would have declared if Zopa had asked him about 
his essential expenditure. However, Ive relied on the information contained in his 
bank statements from the time of the lending as a reliable indicator of what he would 
have likely declared. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to indicate that Mr S 
essential committed living costs and expenditure would have caused Zopa any 
concerns about his ability to repay the loan. It seems he had sufficient disposable 
income (when taking into consideration essential living costs) to make the loan 
repayments even if he didnt use the loan proceeds to clear his existing debts. I 
therefore dont think Zopa made an unfair lending decision when it granted the loan 
to him.
I note that Mr S bank statements demonstrate he was gambling significant amounts 
each month and he has told us he had a gambling problem. Im sorry to hear that 
Mr S was struggling with this at the time. In order to say that Zopa acted unfairly Id 
need to be satisfied that it either knew or should reasonably have known this about 
Mr S circumstances. However, from everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that it 
did or should have known.
This is because I dont think it would have been reasonable or proportionate in the 
specific circumstances of this case for Zopa to have manually reviewed Mr S bank 
statements before lending (this would have been the only reasonable way it could 
have known). While I accept Zopa didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, 
I consider that proportionate checks wouldnt have likely led to a different lending 
decision.
Zopa had no further comments or evidence to provide. Mr S didnt agree with the provisional 
decision. In summary, he said:
The interest rate on the Zopa loan was high at 22.9%. Zopa must therefore have 
known this wasnt a low risk loan. His credit card debt of around £20,000 had not decreased during the previous 18 
months before the loan application. If Zopa believed he had significant disposable 
income each month it ought to have been concerned by the fact his debt hadnt 
decreased as would be expected. 
There were numerous cash advances on his credit cards in the year prior to the loan 
application. This should have suggested to Zopa he was in some financial distress. 
He was utilising the majority of his credit limits on most credit cards and transferring 
balances between credit cards. 
The size of the loan, the short term of it, and no evidence hed reduced his overall 
debt all should have prompted further affordability checks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome I did in my provisional decision and for 
broadly the same reasons. However, Ill address the additional points Mr S has made and 
explain why they dont change the outcome Ive reached. 
The interest rate on the loan was 22.9%. However, this appears to be the representative 
APR Zopa advertises. In other words, this is the APR that at least 51% of its customers will 
receive. Although Ive not seen copies of the exact screens Mr S was presented with when 
he applied for the loan, it seems likely this is what he would have seen too. As Mr S received 
the representative APR, I dont think it automatically follows that Zopa didnt consider this a 
low risk loan. It seems that its interest rates are just set at this level as a starting point. 
Zopa was under no obligation to offer him a lower APR than the representative one, nor do 
I know if it even made one available to anyone. But I dont think that matters because by 
virtue of Mr S receiving the representative rate, I think this demonstrates that Zopa didnt 
consider it a high risk loan. 
Mr S says that his credit file shows that his credit card debt had remained at roughly the 
same level (£20,000) for the 18 months prior to him applying for the loan with Zopa. He says 
this ought to have caused Zopa to be concerned about his ability to repay credit. He says 
that if he had £1,000 in disposable income, Zopa ought to have expected that credit card 
debt to have reduced. While I dont disagree that Mr S overall credit card debt had remained 
steady for quite some time, Im not persuaded this ought to have caused any concern for 
Zopa. At least not to the extent that would have made it reasonable and proportionate for it 
to have manually reviewed his bank statements before lending to him. 
Ive noted that Mr S credit file also shows that he was regularly and consistently paying 
much more than the required minimum payments towards his credit card debts during that 
time. This would therefore have given Zopa the opposite impression to what Mr S has 
sought to argue. It appears Mr S had sufficient disposable income to make large 
overpayments on his credit card debts over a prolonged period of time, but he chose to also 
make further discretionary purchases using that credit. 
I think it is also worth noting that Mr S wasnt utilising the entire credit limits available to him 
and on some cards was significantly under his maximum limit (although I accept at least two 
were close to the limit). All of this, combined with the fact his overall debt hadnt significantly 
increased during that time (and what it knew about Mr S circumstances) would have understandably not caused Zopa any affordability concerns. 
Mr S says there were a number of cash advances on his credit cards prior to the application. 
I agree that in some circumstances this might be a sign of financial difficulty. But given that 
everything else Zopa could see about Mr S circumstances didnt suggest that it was very 
likely he was struggling, I dont think the cash advances on their own were enough to 
suggest Zopas affordability checks ought to have extended to a manual review of his bank 
statements. 
Ive noted that Mr S says he was transferring balances between credit cards. But again, this 
isnt something that in and of itself is concerning behaviour, particularly where (as was the 
case here) Mr S debt wasnt increasing, he was making frequent and significant 
overpayments and there were no obvious signs of financial difficulty. Further, it isnt 
uncommon for consumers to frequently transfer credit card balances, for example, to benefit 
from 0% interest offers. 
In some circumstances, some of the things Mr S has highlighted might have prompted Zopa 
to do more thorough affordability checks than I have suggested was reasonable and 
proportionate. However, for all the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision, 
I dont think that applied in this case. 
I accept what Mr S has told us about his gambling, and I dont underestimate the impact this 
had on him. However, Im not persuaded, for all the reasons Ive given, that Zopa knew or 
ought reasonably to have known about those issues, or any other issues which might have 
caused it not to lend to him. For those reasons, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when lending to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reason given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman