DRN-3379788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC has begun charging them for their Gold 
packaged bank account (PBA). They would like a fee waiver reinstated in perpetuity.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L say that their account was changed to a fee-paying Gold PBA in 2002 
without their permission. When Mr L raised this with his branch, the fee was waived. In 
May 2002 the then branch manager signed a letter written by Mr L confirming that there 
would be ...no time limit... on that waiver.
In 2009 Lloyds charged Mr and Mrs L for the account. Again, Mr L complained and the 
fees were refunded and no further charges were made. However, there was no 
confirmation from Lloyds as to the waiver arrangement.
In June 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mr L to inform him that the waiver would be coming to an 
end and he would need to start paying the monthly fee from September 2021.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Lloyds that it could not remove the fee waiver, due to the 2002 
letter signed by the former branch manager. Lloyds rejected that, saying that the branch 
manager didnt have the authority to make such an arrangement, so offered compensation 
for that mistake, made up of one years worth of PBA fees and a further £150. Mr and Mrs L 
didnt accept that brought their case to this service. The adjudicator considered the evidence 
and concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
and Mrs L dont accept that and asked an ombudsman to look at things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
To be clear, in order to uphold a complaint I would need evidence to persuade me both that 
Lloyds had made a mistake, and that the mistake had caused tangible detriment to Mr and 
Mrs L. I have considered several issues, which I will deal with separately.
Did Lloyds upgrade the fee free account to a PBA in 2002 without permission?
I make no finding on this question, as, regardless, Mr and Mrs L have not lost out. They 
have never paid for the PBA, so even if it was mis-sold in this way, there is no detriment.
Was the branch manager right to confirm a fee waiver without time limit in 2002?
Mr and Mrs L have argued that the 2002 letter in question amounts to a legally binding 
contract from which Lloyds cannot withdraw. However, they have cited USA case law in 
their submissions, nothing from England and Wales. In any event, it is not my role to 
determine the legal validity and enforceability of the letter in question. That is a matter for 
the courts, which is where Mrs and Mrs L should pursue that angle should they so wish.
Lloyds says that its branch manager had no authority to agree to such an arrangement, 
which I accept. So there clearly was a mistake here.
The only remaining question is what fair recompense for that mistake looks like.
What have Mr and Mrs L lost and how should things be put right?
When a business makes a mistake, this service attempts to direct it to put things right so that 
the consumer is in the position in which they would have been if that mistake had not been 
made.
Everyone accepts that Lloyds was wrong in 2002 to mislead Mr and Mrs L into thinking that 
they would receive a free PBA forever. What should have happened is either that the fee 
waiver was offered for a finite period of time, or it should have been made clear that the 
arrangement was open ended, but subject to review and change. (Or, of course, Mr and Mrs 
L could have simply changed back to a standard account without fees or benefits.) So I need 
to try and replicate what I think is most likely to have been the outcome if things had gone 
right.
Put simply, I think that Mr and Mrs L have essentially been financially advantaged by this 
mistake. They have had a free PBA for 20 years. Had the branch manager done the right 
thing as described in the preceding paragraph, I think it is most likely that Mr and Mrs L 
would have continued to accept the situation and the branch managers offer. They may 
have decided to take their business elsewhere, but in terms of the financial position, Mr and 
Mrs L are in certainly no worse, and potentially a better, position than they would have been 
had Lloyds not made a mistake.
However, I do think that they should be compensated for the loss of expectation of having a 
fee free PBA forever. However, I think what Lloyds has already offered is enough. It will 
cover the cost of the existing PBA for long enough to enable Mr and Mrs L to have still 
further time (even taking into account the year that has elapsed since Lloyds made its offer) 
to shop around for an alternative PBA, or perhaps stand alone insurance policies, depending 
on their need. I dont think there has been any significant distress or inconvenience to Mr 
and Mrs L, and so there are no additional sums to be awarded on those grounds.
In summary, I conclude that the offer Lloyds made to Mr and Mrs L in September 2021 is 
sufficient to put right its mistake. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
need to do any more than it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman