DRN-3083880
The complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (CapOne) lent to her irresponsibly. Miss M
is represented by a CMC, but I will refer to the complainant as Miss M.
What happened
Miss M applied for a credit card from CapOne in July 2016. This was agreed with a limit of 
£200. There were further increases in limits as follows:
Miss M complained that CapOne shouldnt have lent to her or increased her limits. They 
couldnt have made the necessary affordability checks as she couldnt afford the 
repayments. CapOne shouldve double checked the evidence of her circumstances rather 
than taking her word for it. She wants a refund of interest and charges, plus 8% simple 
interest.
CapOne said Miss Ms application said she earnt £15,000 per annum and was in full time 
employment. Her credit file showed some previous defaults, but the most recent one was 
over 18 months old. Some of those balances were being reduced. Her other credit 
agreements looked OK and payments were being made. The relatively low credit limit of 
£200 was agreed  and the checks made were proportionate to the low limit. On the next 
increases to £450 and £950, many of her statement balances had been paid in full and on 
time. There werent any signs of financial difficulty, arrears or defaults with other lenders. 
And  Miss M couldve opted out of the offered increases but didnt. Difficulties later arose 
and a Notice of Default was sent on 5 April 2020. The account was defaulted on 8 May 2020 
with the balance £1220.34. Miss M started a COVID19 payment holiday on 3 May 2020, but 
this didnt affect the default process as it had started with the earlier Notice of Default.
Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said he thought the first issue of the 
card was OK. The checks carried out by CapOne were proportionate to the limit of £200. He 
also thought the increase to £450 was OK. But he considered that on the last increase  to 
£950  CapOne didnt do enough to ensure Miss M could afford the repayments on a 
sustainable basis. He said CapOne should refund interest and charges from October 2019 to 
April 2020 and pay compensation of £100.
CapOne disagreed. They said their checks were satisfactory. There was only one late 
payment; and Miss M paid above the minimum amount required for much of the time leading 
up to the last increase. There werent any recent defaults showing on her credit record. 
There was only £2,800 of other debts showing on her credit file. They asked that an
ombudsman look at Miss Ms complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Date Limit
July 2016 £200
February 2018 £450
October 2018 £950I disagree with our investigator. I am not proposing to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether CapOne 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
So - I must consider Miss Ms complaint in the context of this guidance. Its important to note 
that checks must be proportionate to the amount of money being lent  so, where the limits 
are low or modest, the checks can be less than if higher amounts were being agreed. And  
in this case, I consider the limits to be modest. So  for example, we wouldnt expect 
CapOne to ask for income and expenditure details, or payslips, or bank statements as a 
matter of course here  unless they considered there were reasons to do so  such as some 
adverse findings in what they saw on, for example, Miss Ms credit file or in how she was 
using her CapOne account.
Looking at Miss Ms application for a credit card  she said she earnt £15,000 a year and 
was employed. CapOne could see she had some defaulted accounts  but Ive seen the 
most recent one was in January 2015 for £285  18 months before. There were four others 
but even earlier, between 2012 and 2014. And, for a low limit of £200, CapOne considered 
their checks to be OK. And I agree.
Looking at the increases in limits. Up to February 2018, Miss M had missed four monthly 
payments  so that was a potential warning sign. But also, I can see that she hadnt been 
over her limit (of £200). And, she had paid off the full amount of her statement balance on 
eight occasions since taking out the card  rather than paying the minimum amount. There 
werent any cash withdrawals  typically a sign of difficulties. There werent any problems 
shown with other lenders. So, I think CapOne acted responsibly here.
Looking at the increase to £950 in October 2018. There werent any late payments, and 
there was one over limit fee  since the last increase in February 2018. The full balance was 
paid off on two occasions, and the minimum amount (or just over it) was paid in other 
months. There werent any cash withdrawals. There werent any problems shown with other 
lenders. I can see that there was only £2,800 outstanding with other lenders, and this was 
being repaid OK. And, by this time, the last default was almost four years before. So, again, I 
think CapOne acted responsibly here.
I can see that each time, CapOne gave Miss M 30 days notice to opt out of the increases, but she didnt.
So  I think that CapOne lent to Miss M responsibly, and my provisional decision is to not 
uphold this complaint, and so I wont be asking CapOne to do anymore.
Responses to the provisional decision:
CapOne agreed with my findings. Miss M didnt respond.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because CapOne agreed with the provisional decision, and Miss M didnt respond, I wont 
be departing from the provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman