DRN-4222952
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the actions of EB Associates Group Limited (EB Group) which 
advised him to amalgamate two personal pensions into the one new plan in 2019. He says 
the advice to switch his pensions in this way was unsuitable.
What happened
In May 2019, EB Group collected information on Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. At 
the time, Mr M had two personal pensions held with different providers who I will refer to as 
Firm A and Firm B. In September 2019, EB Group wrote to Mr M with its suitability report, 
which recommended he switch his two pensions to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). The SIPP it recommended was also managed by Firm A. EB Group also 
recommended the fund for the SIPP to invest in. Mr M accepted the advice and the switches 
were made in October 2019.
Mr M, who is represented by a claims management company, complained to EB Group in 
2022. His complaint, in brief, was that the costs, and the proposed underlying investments, 
of the new arrangement werent suitable for someone in his position which was: 
unemployed, married, 50 years old, with little investment knowledge and a low attitude to risk 
and capacity for loss. EB Groups response was that its advice was suitable because Mr Ms 
pension with Firm A was invested in a fund that was too high risk for him and the Firm B 
pension was invested in an underperforming with-profits fund. It said the new arrangement 
meant Mr M had consolidated his pensions in a cost-effective new plan and was invested in 
a more suitable manner than before. 
Mr M disagreed and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint, 
arguing that Mr M ended up paying more in charges without good reason as a result of EB 
Groups advice. EB Group didnt agree so the matter is with me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. EB Group has fallen 
short of what I would expect and needs to put things right for Mr M.
Firms such as EB Group are subject to the FCA Handbook, and under that to the Principles 
for Businesses and to the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). The following is not a 
comprehensive list of the relevant rules, regulations and principles. But I consider them to be 
particularly relevant here:
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly;
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading;
COBS 2.1.1R  A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the clients best interests rule);
COBS 9  which covers what firms must do when assessing suitability.
I also consider the Financial Services Authoritys 2008 Quality of advice on pension 
switching report to be relevant. It identified areas of good and bad practice in pension 
switching advice  the latter including switches that result in extra product costs without good 
reason.
My starting point here are the charges Mr M ended up paying under his new arrangement. 
The suitability report included a table which showed the before and after reduction-in-
yields for Mr Ms pension; in other words, a comparison of fund costs, including platform fees 
and management costs, that Mr M was paying and what he went on to pay after he switched 
his pensions. The reduction-in-yield for the fund with Firm A was 0.38%. For the Firm B fund 
it was 1.03%. Taking into consideration the fact that the Firm A pension represented a large 
proportion of the switched funds, this means Mr M was previously paying 0.54% p.a. for his 
pension arrangements. The fund/pension recommended by EB Group had a reduction-in-
yield of 1.00%. This meant Mr M needed his new fund to produce additional returns of 
0.46% p.a. just to break even  a considerable uplift.
In itself, this doesnt necessarily mean the advice was unsuitable. There may be reasons 
why its reasonable for someone to pay more for their pension provision. For example, 
someone may need the greater functionality of a new platform or have good reason for 
changing their fund selections even if those selections are more expensive. However, I dont 
think there were sufficiently good reasons for Mr M to pay so much more in this case. He 
didnt have need for the greater functionality of his new pension because he wasnt 55 so the 
ability to take his retirement income flexibly through the SIPP wasnt something he needed at 
that time. And Im satisfied he didnt have need for the SIPPs greater fund range given his 
investment experience was limited (something that was recorded in the fact-find/attitude-to-
risk exercise). In short, Mr M didnt need to pay extra for additional features because those 
features werent especially useful for him at that time. 
Yes, Mr Ms existing funds with Firm A and Firm B were potentially unsuitable for his 
purposes. The Firm A fund appeared to be too high risk for him given it was a 100% equity 
fund and Mr M was assessed as having an attitude-to-risk of 4 out of 10, or lowest medium 
risk; the fund EB Group recommended was more cautious which, at face value, doesnt 
seem unreasonable. And the Firm B with-profits fund may well have been suffering from 
poor returns. So investing in a different way may have been suitable advice. But paying 
significantly more to do so wasnt, in my view, the answer here. Mr Ms attitude-to-risk and 
investment needs werent particularly esoteric. Im satisfied Mr M could have accessed funds 
in keeping with his objectives more cheaply. 
I think a business, acting with the Principles, COBS rules and regulator commentary on good 
and bad practice in mind, shouldnt have acted in the way EB Group did. If EB Group had 
acted as it should have done, Im satisfied it wouldnt have made the recommendation it did 
and Mr M wouldnt have been put in the position of paying more than he needed to for his 
pension. 
EB Group must therefore put things right for Mr M in line with the approach outlined below. 
The approach is the same as the one outlined by our investigator. I note that EB Group feels 
the benchmark used in that redress is unfair because the fixed interest element of the benchmark doesnt accurately reflect falling capital values. EB Group says this will result in 
complaints that are incorrectly upheld and unfairly high levels of redress being awarded 
(especially during periods of financial turbulence).
EB Group should note that the outcome of the complaint isnt dependent on redress being 
awarded. If a business has given poor advice but their client has nevertheless benefited from 
that advice (by being in a too risky fund that ended up performing strongly for example) then 
the complaint would still be upheld. Its just that, fortuitously, the complainant hasnt lost out 
because of the businesss poor advice. But the business would have still done something 
wrong and this would still need recognising, even if there is no redress to pay.
On the point about redress levels being too high, EB Group should note the fixed rate bond 
element of the benchmark is to account for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable 
return without risk to their capital. So EB Group is correct up to a point  that part of the 
benchmark may not be picking up on the falls in capital values that EB Group would like. But 
EB Group is drawing the wrong conclusions from this. As our investigator pointed out  and 
its a point I agree with  Mr M wanted to protect some of his pension from capital falls and 
the fixed rate bond element of the benchmark is a fair and reasonable way of capturing this.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr M fairly, EB Group must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
EB Group should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
EB Group should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If EB Group is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr M £300 for the distress EB Group's poor advice would have caused him and 
the inconvenience he will face if he decides to review his pension as a result.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If EB Group deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. EB Group should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aviva SIPP Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, EB Group 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if EB 
Group totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that EB Associates Group Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
EB Associates Group Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman