DRN-3698677
The complaint
Mr G acquired a new car in June 2021, by means of a 49-month conditional sale agreement 
with Vauxhall Finance plc. He complains that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. He wants Vauxhall to agree that the car should be rejected.  
What happened
Mr G said that his car exhibited a fault in its electric traction system soon after he acquired it. 
Its dashboard warning system indicated that this type of fault had occurred. The supplying 
dealership undertook diagnostic tests on it in November 2021 but was unable to replicate the 
fault. 
Mr G complained to Vauxhall Finance in mid-December 2021, asking to reject his car. It 
explained to him that, because he had complained more than 30 days but less than six 
months after the point of supply, the dealer must be allowed an opportunity to repair his car. 
Rejection would only become a possibility if repair was unsuccessful. 
Mr G continued to have problems with the traction system, and the warning system still 
indicated a fault. He returned his car to the dealer in late-December 2021 for diagnosis and 
repair. The dealer undertook further tests but was again unable to replicate the fault. 
Mr G returned his car to the dealer once more in mid-January 2022 and, at the same time, 
asked Vauxhall Finance again to reject his car. The dealer ordered a replacement 
component, which took many weeks to arrive. The dealer then completed a second repair 
and returned the car to Mr G in mid-March 2021.
Mr G was kept mobile, when his vehicle was with the dealer, by temporary replacement 
(courtesy) cars  although on one occasion he needed to pay £130 towards insurance of a 
replacement car.  Mr G also complained that the replacement cars were of a lower 
specification than his vehicle. 
Vauxhall wrote to Mr G in late March 2022, saying that the car had been successfully 
repaired, and so it was unable to uphold his complaint. But it offered Mr G compensation of 
£150 for the inconvenience he had experienced. Mr G disagreed with this outcome and 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said:
Based on the evidence provided by Mr G and Vauxhall Finance, she felt it was more 
likely than not that his car was faulty 
Because Mr G complained about this fault to Vauxhall Finance in November 2021 
(five months after acquisition), it was also more likely than not that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply 
On that basis, and because Mr G acquired a brand-new vehicle, it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude his car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply
Although Mr G asked Vauxhall Finance in December 2021 to agree that his car 
should be rejected, a correct decision was made  that the supplying dealership 
should firstly be given the opportunity to undertake a successful repair of his car
The first repair undertaken by the dealer was unsuccessful, because it undertook a 
second repair to address the same problem
Mr G did not consent to this second repair  and Vauxhall Finances records show 
that, instead, he repeated in January 2022 his request to reject the car 
Vauxhall Finance should then have decided to approve rejection, because  
othe first repair was unsuccessful
oMr G repeated his request before the second repair was started
Mr G should receive compensation for trouble and upset caused by his faulty car, 
including the adverse impact on his use of this vehicle  and Vauxhall Finance 
increased its compensation from £150 in cash to £350 in vouchers 
But Mr G was kept mobile when his vehicle was with the dealer, and Vauxhall 
Finance was not contractually required to provide courtesy cars  so, compensation 
for the lower specification of these cars would not be appropriate
Our investigator recommended that Vauxhall Finance should:
1. End its agreement with Mr G, with nothing further to pay
2. Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement it may have recorded on 
Mr Gs credit file
3. Collect Mr Gs car at no further cost to him
4. Refund Mr Gs deposit, plus interest 
5. Pay Mr G directly (in cash) compensation of £350 for the trouble and upset he 
experienced 
Vauxhall Finance disagreed with our investigator, saying that Mr Gs car was fixed with his 
consent, and that he has subsequently had use and enjoyment from his vehicle. So, this 
complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened considering the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Vauxhall has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding 
to their description, have been supplied. This means a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, considering all relevant circumstances. But there are 
limits to these responsibilities. In particular, matters complained about must be present or 
developing at the point of supply. On the balance of probabilities, I agree with our investigator that Mr Gs car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply, for the same reasons:
A high-quality standard is expected in a brand-new car costing more than £26,000  
the electric traction system fault identified did not prevent Mr G making use of his 
car, but it significantly detracted from the performance of a key feature of his vehicle
The supplying dealership had difficulty in replicating the fault on its premises  but 
the cars dashboard warning system gave credence to Mr Gs complaint that the 
fault had occurred, albeit not constantly
The fault was reported to Vauxhall Finance within six months of acquisition  which 
meant the onus was on Vauxhall Finance either to show that the fault was not 
present or developing at the point of supply, or to accept responsibility (shared with 
the dealer) for it 
No evidence was presented to suggest that the fault was absent at the point of 
supply 
I also agree with our investigator that, when Mr G returned his car to the supplying 
dealership in January 2022, Vauxhall Finance should have approved his request to reject his 
car:
Mr Gs car was seen by the supplying dealership on three occasions:
oIn November 2021, when the dealer did not replicate the fault
oIn late-December 2021 for the same fault, after Mr G had complained to 
Vauxhall Finance asking to reject his car, but the dealer was given the 
opportunity to undertake a successful repair
oIn mid-January 2022 for the same fault, when Mr G again asked Vauxhall 
Finance to reject his car
It appears from the above to be more likely than not that the dealer failed to 
undertake a successful repair in late-December 2021
In my view, the fault was of sufficient significance that it was unfair and unreasonable 
not to approve rejection in mid-January 2022 
So, I agree with our investigators conclusion that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
I agree as well with our investigators recommended redress.  Her first four 
recommendations are consistent with rejection of a car that is not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.  
In my view, our investigators fifth recommendation fairly and reasonably reflects the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr G by:
The car he acquired not living up to the standards expected of brand-new vehicles
The resulting inconvenience caused by having to deal with a significant fault
The unwillingness of Vauxhall Finance to accept that rejection was the appropriate 
remedy, when the supplying dealership failed to undertake a successful repair of his 
carMy final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I order Vauxhall Finance plc:
1. To end its agreement with Mr G, with nothing further to pay
2. To remove any adverse information relating to this agreement it may have recorded 
on Mr Gs credit file
3. To collect Mr Gs car at no further cost to him
4. To refund Mr Gs deposit, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
5. To pay directly to Mr G compensation of £350 for the trouble and upset he 
experienced 
If Vauxhall Finance considers that it must deduct tax from the interest element of my award, 
it should send Mr G a tax deduction certificate when it pays him. He can then try to reclaim 
the tax if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman