DRN-4309205
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service he received when he applied for a credit card with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr M applied for a credit card with HSBC. Due to some issues uploading 
his information to the system Mr M cancelled the application.
Mr M submitted a second application but when he called HSBC about it they had no record 
of it. He says he was advised to wait one month and re-apply. Mr M reapplied in January 
2023 but was told that he shouldve waited until 3 months had elapsed.
Mr M was unhappy about the service hed received. He said the incorrect advice given by 
HSBC caused him to submit a further application which in turn resulted in further credit 
searches being carried out. He wanted the credit searches removed from his credit record.
HSBC acknowledged that Mr M had experienced some difficulties contacting them about his 
initial application and offered £50 compensation. It also agreed to remove he credit search 
dated 8 January 2023.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I reviewed the system notes 
and records provided by HSBC. These showed that Mr M had started applications on 16 
December 2022 and 21 January 2023. There was no evidence to show that Mr M had 
started an application on 8 January 2023 but HSBC had carried out a credit search on this 
date. I said that this credit search should be removed as it couldnt be shown by HSBC that it 
related to an application made by Mr M. I said, however, that I was satisfied that the credit 
search relating to Mr Ms first application on 16 December 2022 had been carried out 
correctly. I also listened to the telephone calls between Mr M and HSBC to determine 
whether incorrect advice had been given about Mr Ms ability to reapply and within what 
timescale.  I concluded that HSBC had likely advised Mr M in a telephone call on 21 January 
2023 that he could submit a third application, and that this advice was incorrect and had 
resulted in a further credit search being carried out.
I decided that HSBC should remove the credit searches carried out on 8 January 2023 and 
21 January 2023 and pay further compensation of £150 to Mr M.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Both parties responded and said that they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision. No further evidence has been adduced. 
I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc must remove the hard credit searches dated 8 January 2023 and 21 
January 2023 and pay further compensation of £150 to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman