DRN-2917893
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement Acromas Insurance Company Limited offered under 
his motor insurance policy following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. Acromas said the cars market 
value was £750 but it made deductions for it not having a MOT and for being a previous total 
loss. It also deducted the £300 policy excess, so Mr G received £300 in settlement of his 
claim. And it paid Mr G £150 for the loss of his personal possessions. Mr G was unhappy 
with this. He said it would cost him £2,000 to travel to Europe to buy a replacement car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Acromas had reasonably relied on a specialist assessor to determine the cars value. She 
thought its deductions were fair and reasonable. She thought the policy limit for personal 
possessions was £150. And she thought the policy didnt provide for Mr G to travel to buy a 
replacement car. 
Mr G replied that he wanted enough in the settlement to replace his car. Mr G thought 
Acromas hadnt valued the car correctly as it was left hand drive and almost 25 years old, 
and so nearly exempt from road tax. Mr G thought his car was worth £3,500 plus £1,534 
repair costs. He thought Acromas should also compensate him for his travel costs for the 
two years he had been without his car and the delay in settling the claim to his satisfaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G has raised other concerns in regard to his policy with Acromas and its 
agents. But here I can only consider his complaint about the valuation of his car and the 
compensation Acromas paid for the loss of his personal belongings. This is because he 
raised these two issues with Acromas in his complaint and its had a chance to make a 
response. Mr G will have to raise separate complaints about his other concerns.
I can understand that Mr G wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. The investigator 
has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we usually obtain valuations from 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
As Mr G knows, the motor trade guides dont provide a valuation for his car due to its age. 
So I think Acromas reasonably instructed a specialist assessor to value his car. This 
valuation took into account the cars less than average mileage and its condition. The 
valuation was £750.
Acromas made deductions of 10% because the car didnt have a current MOT at the time of 
its loss, and a further 10% because the car had been a previous total loss. I think that was 
fair and reasonable as these factors would affect the cars market value. This led to a 
settlement of £600 less the £300 policy excess. 
Mr G thought this was too low because it didnt take into account his cars desirability or the 
cost of replacing it with another left hand drive model. But I think his policy provides for the 
cars market value in the case of its loss. It doesnt provide for travel costs to secure its 
replacement.
Acromas, and the investigator, invited Mr G to provide examples of similar cars sold for 
higher prices to show that Acromas valuation was too low. And Mr G could have provided 
his own engineers valuation. Mr G provided his own assessment of the cars value, but I 
dont think thats an expert independent valuation. 
So I think Acromas valuation of Mr Gs cars market value was fair and reasonable, and I 
dont require it to increase this.
Mr G said hed left personal belongings in the car at the time of its theft. Acromas paid him 
the policy limit of £150 to cover these losses. I think thats in keeping with the policy terms 
and conditions. So I cant say that Acromas needs to pay Mr G any further compensation for 
his losses.
Mr G said hed been without a car and had to use public transport. He wanted Acromas to 
compensate him for this. But I cant see that this is covered by his policy. I think Acromas 
settled his claim according to the policy terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably. So I 
dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman