DRN-4018091
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC had technical issues with their mobile banking 
application that led him to lose over £24,000.
 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. In summary, Mr R had issues applying a gambling block to his mobile banking 
application (MBA) and eventually Barclays worked around this by manually applying a block. 
Mr R also says he lost over £24,000 when Barclays did not flag gambling payments as 
suspicious. Barclays said that as Mr R did not respond to their text asking if the issue was 
still ongoing, an official ticket about the gambling block was not raised, but they offered him 
£30 compensation. 
Mr R referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator did not think the £24,000 was 
linked to the gambling block issues Mr R faced, as they occurred a year before. They did not 
agree that the gambling transactions totalling £24,000 were so unusual that they warranted 
intervention from Barclays. And they felt Barclays had dealt with the gambling block issue 
within a reasonable timeframe, so they did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr R disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision which 
read as follows:
Ill first focus on Mr Rs issues with the gambling block on his MBA. I can see Barclays raised 
an investigation into the gambling block on 14 December 2014, following a conversation with 
Mr R. They then sent a text to Mr R on 16 December to ask whether or not he was still 
experiencing issues. When Mr R did not respond, the investigation was closed. 
Mr R raised a complaint about this on 18 December and Barclays attempted to call Mr R 
twice on 20 December, and again on 21 December. As they could not get through, they 
issued a final response on 21 December 2022 in which they explained they had applied the 
gambling block manually. Considering this, I think Barclays found a workaround for the 
technical issue within a reasonable amount of time once it was clear they would not be able 
to meaningfully discuss the issue with Mr R. 
It appears Mr R did contact Barclays via the online chat function about the gambling block 
earlier on in December, though Ive not been able to see a transcript of the conversation. In 
an online chat Ive see the transcript of what occurred between Mr R and Barclays on 18 
December, the Barclays representative confirmed the conversation ended abruptly without 
an investigation being raised. Which suggests the conversation ended prior to an official 
request being raised that would lead to an investigation of the issue. On balance, I havent 
seen enough to be satisfied that Barclays made an error when it didnt raise an investigation 
sooner. With all of this in mind, I think Barclays responded to Mr Rs complaint about the 
gambling block in a reasonable timeframe and came up with a sensible workaround for the 
problem. And I think the offer of £30 compensation for the initial error is fair in the 
circumstances. It is unclear if this has already been paid to Mr R. 
Ill now focus on the transactions totalling £24,000 that Mr R says he lost in November 2021. 
I have found no mention of Mr R raising a complaint about the gambling block not working 
prior to this point, so I have viewed this as a separate incident. 
Mr R has said that the transactions were significantly higher than previous deposits he had 
made and at the time he was unable to call Barclays as he did not know his telephone 
banking security number and he could not visit a branch, so he was unable to contact them. 
And he could not make a transfer to his bank account with another provider as he had 
reached his daily limit. Barclays has confirmed that the daily transfer limit for mobile phone 
transfers was £10,000 to existing payees.
I can see that Mr R had gambled in bursts previously so the behaviour of multiple 
transactions out of his account in a day was not unusual for him. So, I would not have 
expected this alone to have flagged to Barclays as suspicious. However, I do agree that the 
transactions on 26 November were larger than Mr R normally made and there were multiple 
high value transactions on the same day. With this in mind, I think it would have been 
preferable if Barclays had noticed the unusual traffic on Mr Rs account and contacted him.
When Barclays identifies an unusual or out of character transaction, they will typically 
contact the consumer to make sure there is no fraud being committed on the account or that 
the consumer is not the victim of a scam. So, they will generally ask what the nature of the 
transaction is and whether or not it was authorised by the account holder. In Mr Rs case, it 
was not in doubt that he had authorised the transaction himself and that it was for gambling 
purposes, which in this case was not related to fraud or a scam. 
On balance, there was no guarantee that a conversation about the nature and validity of the 
high value transactions would have changed Mr Rs behaviour at that time. I say this 
because Mr R appears to have been spending compulsively and did not seek to apply a 
gambling block on this account until a year later and he continued to gamble during that 
time. So, I cant safely conclude that a conversation with Barclays would have made him 
stop his spending on that day and that he would not have gone on to spend the funds at a 
later date. Considering this, I therefore dont currently think it would be reasonable to ask 
Barclays to refund the transactions in question. 
Barclays responded and agreed to my provisional findings. 
Mr R responded and said the following:
He is still unable to add or remove the gambling block on his MBA so the issue is not 
resolved.
He was not informed of the daily transfer limits on the account, and he reiterated that 
he was unable to transfer the funds out of his account. 
Barclays were aware of his high gambling activity, and they were aware that he was 
a vulnerable individual.
He did respond to the text from Barclays about his issue with the gambling block, but 
they responded to say the complaint was closed.
He has sent us proof that he was told a complaint was being raised for him in the 
online chat.
He says that he did try to activate the gambling block prior to losing the £24,000, and 
when he was unable to the online bot referred him to the online guide and he could 
not get through to a person. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has responded with some additional points for me to consider, so Ill go over them in 
turn.
I appreciate that Mr R has said he is still unable to remove and add the gambling block 
himself on his account as he would like. This must be frustrating for Mr R and it appears 
there is an issue with his MBA. Ultimately, I have considered how Barclays responded to his 
initial complaint which was that he could not add the gambling block  and they found a way 
around this by manually adding it. It is possible that if he wants to remove it, he can contact 
Barclays and they can manually remove it again. But on balance, I still think they dealt with 
his initial issue appropriately in the circumstances. 
Mr R has said that he was unaware there was a daily limit on his account. This is not 
unusual, and all accounts will generally have different limits for internal, external and 
international transfers and these can vary for new and existing payees. I appreciate Mr R 
was unable to carry out the transfer, but Ive seen nothing to suggest this was as a result of 
an error by Barclays.
Mr R says that Barclays were aware of his gambling activity and that he was vulnerable. 
Barclays has not mentioned any contact prior to December 2022 in which Mr R said he had 
gambling issues. In response to the initial view, Mr R said that he had not specifically come 
out and said he had a gambling problem previously, but he still felt Barclays knew about it. 
However, the existence of gambling on an account is not enough for Barclays to make a 
note that he may have a problem. While it may warrant a conversation, they would need    
Mr R to make them aware of a gambling problem in order for them to help him apply friction 
to future spending. And similarly, Mr Rs vulnerabilities would not necessarily have meant 
Barclays should have intervened in the payments. 
Mr R has said that he did respond to the text sent on 16 December, and I can see that he 
did. This was two days after the text was sent and by that time, the ticket had already been 
closed due to a lack of response. In any event, Barclays manually applied the block shortly 
after this, so I dont think this has caused Mr R much trouble or upset. 
Mr R has also said he supplied us with the chat from 1 December in which he initially raised 
this issue. I explained in my provisional decision that we do not have a copy of this chat, 
which is why I relied on the chat from 18 December. Its unclear if Mr R still has a copy of the 
chat and Ive considered whether or not having this would change the outcome of the 
complaint. On balance, I dont think it would. Even if I were to agree that Barclays missed an 
opportunity to raise a ticket on 1 December about the issue, it was resolved a few weeks 
later. So, the compensation of £30 would have generally been in the range of what I would 
have recommended in the circumstances, and I would not have directed Barclays to 
increase this.
Finally, Mr R says that he did try to make Barclays aware of his MBA issue prior to the 
transactions in 2021, however he was referred to the online guide and he could not get 
through to a person. As mentioned in my provisional decision, there is no mention of Mr R 
raising this as an issue sooner or mentioning that he had tried to as part of his complaint.
I have to consider Barclays actions and if they had not been made aware of the issue, there 
is not much more that they could have done in the circumstances. So, I cant agree that they 
missed an opportunity to help Mr R sooner.  My final decision
I dont direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to refund the transactions totalling over £24,000 and I 
think the compensation offered is fair in the circumstances. Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
pay Mr R the £30 if they havent already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman