DRN-1096843
 
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Catlin Insurance Company UK Ltd (Catlin) turned down a storm 
damage claim she made on a landlord household insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, Mrs Ns tenant noticed water coming into the attic through the roof. There 
was some water damage in the attic and in one of the bedrooms. So Mrs N made a claim for 
storm damage on her landlord household insurance.
Catlin appointed a buildings surveyor to inspect Mrs Ns property. The surveyors report said 
there was no evidence of one-off storm damage to the roof. It said the roof was reaching the 
end of its design life. And it said the ridge pointing was deteriorating as the result of a 
gradually operating cause. 
Based on the surveyors report, Catlin turned down the claim. It said there wasnt evidence 
of storm conditions around the time of the claim. It said the damage wasnt consistent with 
storm damage. And it said the proximate cause of the damage was down to wear and tear, 
which is specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Catlin also found the bedroom damage was down to damp conditions which had built up 
over time due to poor ventilation in the bedroom. It said this part of the claim wasnt covered 
by the accidental damage section of the policy, because it specifically excludes damp.
Mrs N was unhappy with Catlins decision. She provided Catlin with invoices from her roofer, 
which showed shed had work done to the roof regularly over the past few years. The roofer 
also said he thought the damage to the roof had been down to a storm. Catlin considered 
what Mrs N had sent in, but didnt change its mind about her claim. So Mrs Ns 
representative asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. He thought the weather 
reports from the day of the damage showed there had been storm conditions. He felt the 
damage could be considered to be consistent with storm damage. But he didnt think the 
storm conditions were the dominant cause of the damage. He felt that the surveyors report 
showed thered been a gradual deterioration to the roof over time.  So he considered Catlin 
had considered the roof claim fairly.
The investigator also thought Catlin had looked into the bedroom damage fairly. He felt it 
had been properly looked at under the accidental damage section of the policy. And he 
thought the surveyors report showed the damage had been caused by damp. So he 
considered it was fair for Catlin to rely on the term excluding damage due to damp to turn 
down the claim. 
Mrs N disagreed with the investigator. Her representative said she didnt feel the outcome 
was fair. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for 
Catlin to turn down Mrs Ns claim. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, when looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
 were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 is the damage consistent with storm damage?
  were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Catlin didnt think there were storm conditions around the date of the claim. I disagree. Like 
the investigator, Ive looked at the weather reports from around the date of the claim. I can 
see that on the day Mrs Ns tenant noticed the damage, there were wind speeds of up to 
51mph in the area. Catlin hasnt defined what it means by a storm in the policy. But I think 
wind gusts of this speed can fairly be considered to be storm conditions. Thats because 
wind gusts at this speed can be capable of causing structural damage. That means Ive 
decided the answer to the first question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Catlin doesnt think the damage was consistent with storm damage. Ive thought about this. 
Roof damage, dislodged tiles and internal water damage following roof damage may happen 
after a storm. I think the damage seen could broadly be considered consistent with storm 
damage. So on balance, I think the answer to the second question is yes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I know Mrs N and her representative feel strongly that the storm winds were the main cause 
of the damage to Mrs Ns property. Theyve provided invoices from a roofer showing that the 
roof was regularly maintained. And the roofer suggested that the dampness was caused by 
tiles being ruffled in storms. So I can understand why Mrs N feels Catlin should deal with her 
claim for storm damage.
But I have to weigh up this evidence against the report from Catlins surveyor to decide 
whether I think its most likely that the storm was the main cause of the damage. So Ive 
considered both pieces of evidence very carefully.
The report says that the surveyor spoke to Mrs Ns tenant, whod noticed the damage. The 
report says: It was stated over the last few years there has been issue (sic) with the roof and 
water ingress. The report said: the latest event was noted when daylight could been (sic) 
seen entering the roof at the ridge. From what the tenant told the surveyor, it seems thered 
been issues with water getting in through the roof over a period of a few years. 
Ive then thought about what the report says about what was causing the water to get in. It 
states theres no evidence the damage was caused by a one-off event of storm. Instead, it 
says: the roof is reaching the end of its design lifeThe ridge pointing is deteriorating as 
result of gradually operating cause. The surveyor took photos during their visit which Ive looked at closely. I can see theres 
moss on the roof and evidence of the repair work Mrs Ns told us about. But in my view, this 
simply supports that the damage is most likely to have happened over a period of time. The 
repair work seems likely to have been in response to the earlier issues the tenant told Catlin 
about. And deterioration to the pointing isnt usually caused by a one-off event of storm. Its 
generally something which happens gradually, over time. 
Based on everything Ive seen, while Ive taken into account Mrs Ns roofers comments, I 
find the surveyors opinion more persuasive.  I think its more likely that the storm conditions 
simply showed up the existing problems with the roof, rather than being the main cause of 
the damage. And given what the surveyor said about the roof reaching the end of its design 
life and deterioration of the pointing over time, I think it was fair for Catlin to consider these 
issues as wear and tear.
Mrs Ns policy does cover buildings damage due to storm. But the policy also says, under 
the storm section:
What is not Covered
Damage caused by:
Wear or dry rot, rust, corrosions or wear and tear (my emphasis).
 
I think the damage to the roof was down to wear and tear, which isnt covered by the policy. 
So it follows that I think it was fair for Catlin to turn down Mrs Ns roof damage claim.
The bedroom damage
Mrs N has accidental damage cover on her policy. I think this was the right section of the 
policy for Catlin to consider her bedroom damage claim under. Mrs Ns roofer hasnt 
commented on the cause of the bedroom damage, so Ive looked at what the surveyors said 
about this.
The photos show patches of water damage in the bedroom and the report says theres 
mould in the room. The surveyor said: the rear right bedroom is suffering from condensation 
issues at the perimeter of the ceiling. At the time of our inspection the window vents were 
blocked up and there were no windows open. On this basis, Catlin decided the issues in the 
bedroom were down to lack of airflow causing damp. 
I find the report and the photos persuasive evidence that lack of ventilation was the main 
cause of the water damage to the bedroom. The presence of mould also suggests that the 
room had been wet or damp for some time. So I turned to look at the accidental damage 
section of the policy. Under the what is not covered section, it says:
Damage from:
Damp, fungus wet or dry rot, mildew.
On this basis, I think the bedroom damage claim is excluded by the policy terms. So Ive 
decided it was fair for Catlin to turn down the accidental damage claim.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs N, I think Catlin has treated her fairly. Ive decided 
it was fair for it to turn down her claims for roof damage and damage to the bedroom.
 My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman