DRN-4309134
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society, who Ill call Nationwide, were unreasonable 
not to process a chargeback for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If goods are faulty or not as descried, as Mr J says is the case here, the chargeback scheme 
may allow the debit card holder to get a refund.
Chargeback is not a legal right and Nationwide didnt have to process a chargeback, 
although Id think it fair for theme to do so if there was a good chance the claim would 
succeed. The chargeback scheme is not administered by Nationwide. Its the chargeback 
scheme provider (VISA) who set the rules. 
Nationwide have explained that those rules require the item to have been returned in order 
for a chargeback to be successful. As theres no dispute the items havent been returned, I 
dont think Nationwide were unreasonable not to pursue the chargeback as it was unlikely to 
succeed.
Mr J has explained that legislation puts the onus on the seller to pay for returns and he may 
therefore be able to raise his claim through the courts if a return isnt agreed. But with regard 
to his chargeback claim I cant say Nationwide have been unreasonable when not pursuing a 
claim that the scheme rules were unlikely to support.
I dont therefore think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman