DRN-3339730
The complaint
 A company which I refer to as J complains that whilst conducting their Safeguard review 
HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly suspended its account in the belief it had provided incorrect 
information to the bank regarding its ownership.  
In bringing this complaint J is represented by its secretary who I refer to as Mrs M. 
 
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail.
Briefly, in February 2021, HSBC wrote to J requesting information to enable them to conduct 
their Safeguard review. Further letters were sent to J in March, April and June 2021 chasing 
the information. In their June 2021 letter HSBC gave notice that they would withdraw all 
services from J and close its account by 10 August 2021 if they didnt receive the information 
theyd asked for.
However, towards the end of May 2021 J had in fact responded to HSBCs request. So, it 
would appear Js response crossed with the banks June 2021 letter. 
But HSBC werent satisfied that J had given them correct information regarding its beneficial 
ownership. This assumption was based on HSBCs analysis of Js 2016 Annual Return. So, 
towards the end of June 2021 HSBC wrote again to J disputing the information it had 
provided. They asked J to amend and resubmit the form with the correct information. 
In July 2021 HSBC sent a reminder to J that the information they had asked for was still 
outstanding. A month later in August 2021 HSBC told J that access to its bank account and 
related services had now been withdrawn. HSBC cancelled Js direct debits and its credit 
card.
In September 2021 J complained to HSBC. It said it had sent the correct information to them 
regarding its ownership. HSBC agreed to reverse the suspension and continue with their 
review. They also reinstated some of Js direct debits but not Js credit card. 
HSBC maintained, however, that they didnt do anything wrong. They said theyd suspended 
Js account because it had given them incorrect information regarding its beneficial 
ownership. 
J didnt agree with HSBC and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that HSBC acted unfairly when they suspended Js account. He 
observed that when challenging the ownership information J had given them, the bank had 
been relying on information taken from Js 2016 Annual Return rather than the information in 
the 2019 Annual Return from which Js figures were taken. On balance, the investigator was 
satisfied that the suspension of Js account would have been avoided if HSBC had taken 
account of the correct up to date information in Js 2019 Annual Return. 
The investigator was further satisfied that HSBCs actions caused J inconvenience because:
J was denied access to its account for the two-week period of its suspension. 
Mrs M had to contact various companies to reinstate the direct debits HSBC were 
unable to do; and 
J no longer had a credit card and would have to submit a fresh application to obtain a 
new one. 
To put things right the investigator recommended that HSBC:
Refund charges, if any, relating to the decline of any direct debits caused by the 
suspension of Js account.
Correct any negative credit file entries caused by the suspension; and
Pay £500 to J for the inconvenience they caused to the company.
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation, but J didnt. Mrs M didnt think the 
investigators recommendation went far enough. So, she has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The Safeguard review is a legal requirement HSBC is obliged to carry out on behalf of its 
customers, including J. And to complete that review, HSBC were entitled to ask J for the 
information they needed in order to do so. But on receipt of that information its not 
unreasonable to expect HSBC to properly determine its accuracy before insisting it was 
wrong. 
I do not find that HSBC did so in this case. In June 2021 they told J that the company had 
provided incorrect information to the bank regarding its ownership. But the ownership 
information HSBC were relying on was out of date. In other words, instead of relying on the 
more up to date figures from Js 2019 Annual Return, which J had given to them, instead 
HSBC had been using out of date information from Js 2016 Annual Return when insisting 
the details J had given them were wrong. 
Like the investigator, I am also satisfied on balance that, but for HSBCs error it would have 
been clear J had provided accurate and up to date information regarding its beneficial 
ownership. So, there would have been no need to call into question the accuracy of that 
information. On that basis I am also satisfied that the suspension by HSBC of Js account, 
the cancellation of its direct debit and the closure of its credit card account was avoidable. 
HSBCs decision to take such actions was therefore unfair because it was based on its error. 
Im pleased that after two weeks HSBC ultimately agreed to lift the suspension on Js 
account and reinstate some of Js direct debits. But I find that HSBCs error did cause J the 
inconvenience noted above and that that they should therefore compensate J for that 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
I understand Mrs M feels the steps recommended by the investigator fall short of whats required to put things right for J. But after carefully considering the circumstances of this 
case, Im of the view that the steps he recommended that HSBC should take fairly reflects 
the impact of the banks error and is a fair way to resolve this complaint  
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it I therefore 
recommend that HSBC:
Refund charges if any relating to the decline of any direct debits caused by the 
suspension of Js account;
Correct any negative credit file entries caused by the suspension; and
Pay £500 to J for the inconvenience they caused to J.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman