DRN-2683982
The complaint
Mr S complains that incorrect information shown on his Experian Limited credit file led to a 
credit card application being declined. 
What happened
Mr S applied for a credit card but it was declined. Mr S contacted Experian and said it didnt 
hold an up to date address for him. Mr S has also complained that hes been incorrectly 
linked with someone else on his credit report. Mr S complained that his credit card 
application was declined on the basis of incorrect information shown on his credit file. 
Experian didnt agree it had made a mistake and said the address information reported on 
his credit file came from third parties. Experian also said it had no say in whether a credit 
application was declined or approved by another business. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and went on to send the investigator a page from 
his credit report that showed he had a financial association recorded with another individual 
from 2003. Mr S has explained the financial link found was the subject of a previous 
complaint and the reporting business was meant to remove it. 
Given the age of the financial association, Experian agreed to remove it from Mr S credit 
file. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint and said Experian was reporting 
information recorded by another business. Mr S responded and said Experian shouldve 
helped him obtain a credit report sooner and that its delay meant he lost out on a credit card 
offer. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr S for the level of detail contained in his submissions. Ive read and 
considered everything hes said and provided. If I dont respond to each point Mr S has 
made it isnt because I havent considered the information hes given us. Im going to focus 
on what I feel are the key issues of his complaint. I should also explain that in this decision, I 
can only consider Experians actions and whether it has treated Mr S fairly. 
Mr S has told us that the financial association caused his application for a credit card to be 
declined. But the financial association recorded was being reported by another business. 
The business in question was the one Mr S applied for a credit card with. I appreciate Mr S 
has previously complained about the financial association, but I dont agree Experian was at 
fault by reporting the link. Ultimately, the business reporting the link was responsible for it 
being recorded on Mr S credit file. 
Mr S has told us he had difficulties obtaining a copy of his credit report and that, if Experian 
had helped him sooner, he could have taken advantage of a credit card promotion. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr S but I can see Experian gave him information about how to obtain a full 
copy of his credit file after he contacted it about his declined credit card application. Mr S 
says he experienced difficulties obtaining a copy of his credit report, so Experian provided 
one to him that showed the financial association. Mr S first contacted Experian about his 
credit card application at the beginning of July 2020 and it produced a credit report for him a 
month later. I appreciate Mr S may have had some technical problems, but I havent found 
that Experian unreasonably delayed sending him a copy of his credit report. 
Mr S says the financial link and address information on his report were the reasons his 
application was declined. But I think its fair to note that the information hes sent us from the 
lender doesnt specifically say why the application didnt proceed. I understand thats the 
subject of a separate complaint, but I havent seen anything that demonstrates the financial 
association details recorded on Mr S credit file were the reason his credit card application 
was initially declined. 
As Im satisfied Experian dealt with Mr S complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman