DRN-3295916
The complaint
Miss D and Mr H complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined their claim and avoided their 
policy following a flood at their property.
What happened
Miss D and Mr H took out a home insurance policy with QIC through an insurance 
aggregator website in October 2016. The policy renewed annually and in August 2020 Miss 
D and Mr H submitted a claim following a flood at their property. 
During the validation of this claim, QIC says a misrepresentation was identified. QIC says 
that during a call that took place some 10 days after the claim was reported Mr H confirmed 
that the property had previously flooded in 2018. QIC says that Miss D and Mr H shouldve 
told it about this incident. It says it wouldnt have offered a renewal in 2019 if it had known 
about the previous flood. QIC considers this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation. 
So, it avoided the policy back to 2019, refunded the premiums and declined cover for the 
claim from 2020.
Miss D and Mr H dont think this is fair, so they brought this complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought it should be upheld as they didnt think there had been a misrepresentation.
However, QIC doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Miss D and Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a careless 
misrepresentation when they renewed the policy in 2019. It says a flood occurred in 2018 
and had this flood been declared QIC wouldnt have provided a quotation. As such it avoided 
the policy back to 2019 as per the remedy available under CIDRA.
QIC says that insurers are interested in the history of flooding as this is a significant rating 
factor on deciding whether to offer a quotation and on what terms. It says that all leading 
insurers expect customers to declare previous flooding. Specifically flooding from an outside 
source and in particular flooding caused by sea, river or rainfall. QIC has pointed to the 
dictionary definition of a flood which states that a flood is an overflow of water beyond it's 
normal limits e.g land that is normally dry. QIC says that Miss D and Mr H had every 
opportunity to declare this flood at renewal in 2019. It says the renewal included a statement 
of fact which says, Your property or any property within 100m of your boundary wall has 
NOT been affected by flood within the last 10 years. The statement of fact has generated I 
agree as stated by Miss D and Mr H in 2016. And theres no record of Miss D or Mr H 
contacting QIC to change this statement. 
Miss D and Mr H say that there has been previous flooding, but it was a long time before 
they moved in. Mr H says it was in 2000/2001 and possibly further flooding in 2008. This is 
all second-hand knowledge told to them by neighbours. Miss D and Mr H say that in 2018 
there was a small build-up of water outside their home. They say (this is taken from a 
transcript of the call) theyve contacted the council and water supplier about the drainage as 
water builds up every now and then. They said, a couple of years ago the water was about 
level with the door but obviously not enough rainfall to be a flood, but still went underneath 
the vents at that point.
I have seen a photo of the front door. Theres a public footpath right outside and a small step 
onto it. You step down onto this smaller step from a higher step. There is gravel on each 
side of the small step, and from what I can see the bottom of the vents are level with the top 
of the small step. Mr H told QIC in later correspondence that on one occasion there was 
heavy rain and there was a rise of water outside on the public street. He says the water 
flowed over the public pavement and entered into the gravel at the front of his house. He 
said the water disappeared into the gravel, and no water entered the vents. He says there 
was absolutely no damage to his property. He said he did not believe this small overflow of 
water would be deemed a flood.
I know QIC want to know about previous floods. This is very important as per the 
underwriting guidance it has provided.  And its clear from its response to our investigators 
view, where its set out numerous similar questions asked by all the other leading insurers 
that it wants to know about all types of flood. It says its very concerned about the 
implications of flooding and QIC has very strongly set out the significant impact of flooding. 
It lists many questions asked by other insurers which use wording such as previous floods 
and outside sources, surges and heavy rainfall. It also includes a definition of flood 
which states, a substantial and abnormal build-up of water from an external source.
But the test isnt what this definition or any other variation of this definition says. The test is 
what a reasonable consumer would reasonably feel that he or she needed to declare to give 
QIC a fair presentation of the risk.
The definition of flood is not included in each annual renewal and it would be a lot to expect 
for a consumer to go and revisit the definition at each renewal to make sure he/she was 
declaring everything correctly. But I can see that QIC set out very clearly that the consumer 
has a duty of care to make a fair representation and the statement clearly says QIC wants to 
know about flooding in the last 10 years. I can also see that QIC has reassured Miss D and 
Mr H that it doesnt think the misrepresentation was deliberate. It deemed the 
misrepresentation a careless error.So, was there a flood/floods and should Miss D and Mr H have declared it? I dont think the 
floods from the early 2000s or 2008 are declarable. There are no dates, no information 
around what happened and its all very loose information. So, I dont think these alleged 
floods have any bearing on what subsequently happened. Ive read the transcript of the 
conversation from August 2020, and Ive read all Mr Hs subsequent letters explaining what 
happened in 2018. Its clear theres an issue with the local public drainage system that is 
located outside of Miss Ds and Mr Hs property boundary. Locals have complained to MPs 
and the drains have overflowed more than once. But this is quite different to Miss D and Mr 
H living in a flood plain, or near an external water source that is prone to flooding. (neither 
party has stated that this is the case). In fact, what seems to be happening is that the public 
drains either get blocked or arent fit to take a sudden high volume of water when there is a 
heavy rainfall. And from the way Mr H describes it, the drains sometimes overflow, and on 
this one occasion the water came across the path and it soaked into the gravel outside his 
front door. Mr H in his letter to QIC says he would never have knowingly put his family and 
their home in such a vulnerable position. He says theres no way he wouldve jeopardised 
his home by not declaring a flood. Mr H also says that in hindsight the water overflow outside 
his house in 2018 has been blown out of all proportion. He says it was a situation where 
water overflowed onto his property, but he says this was not a flood by any stretch of the 
imagination. He said no water entered his, or his neighbours homes.
However, the water overflow does fit QICs definition of a flood as per its policy terms and 
conditions. So, I can see why it has caused an issue. But again, as I said before the 
definition is not the test under CIDRA. The standard test is that of a reasonable consumer. 
Mr H says the incident in 2018 was a storm with heavy rainfall in a short space of time (30 
mins). In recent years the UK has seen numerous instances of extraordinarily heavy rainfall. 
Weve all seen streets up and down the UK suddenly submerged with water after a sudden 
heavy rainfall, which then disappears as soon as it appears, thanks to drainage and natural 
soakage. Im confident that these types of drain overflow issues after sudden heavy rain are 
not what a reasonable consumer would deem to be reportable as a risk to an insurer. Most 
consumers would just see this as a result of very heavy rain. I doubt normal consumers are 
taking note of every time a blocked or restricted drain causes water to wash across 
footpaths, soaking into their gardens and front yards. In fact, most consumers mightnt even 
know a flash flood has happened, as they appear suddenly and disappear just as quickly.
So even if this incident in 2018 is technically deemed a flood as per the policy terms and 
conditions, I dont think a reasonable consumer wouldve even thought to declare it never 
mind think it would impact their risk or their premiums. Looking at the statement provided at 
renewal I dont believe what it says would trigger a normal consumer to declare as a flood 
what Mr H described happened in front of his property in 2018. And even if QIC think that 
maybe Mr H is downplaying the incident because of the subsequent consequences, theres 
no evidence to support this. The only evidence we have is Mr Hs testimony, and if he was 
trying to back track and gain an advantage, he could just say he was mistaken and there 
was no incident. Instead hes clarified the story knowing full well it sits into the definition as 
set out by QIC. And this is key. I appreciate that QIC is applying the strict legal position 
under CIDRA. But it hasnt considered that the standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. Mr H has honestly told us that as a reasonable consumer hes presented a fair 
risk, and to him this incident of overflowing public drains was a fleeting incident and not 
something that needed to be declared. And as Ive set out above, in this specific set of 
circumstances, I agree. 
I know QIC doesnt agree with this and I completely understand why QIC wants to know 
about all potential risks. And in different circumstances I might agree with the QICs actions. 
But in this specific circumstance and based on everything Ive seen on file I think its fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Miss D and Mr H took reasonable care, at renewal. Therefore, there is no misrepresentation. As such the actions taken by QIC are unfair and not in line 
with CIDRA. So, I will be upholding this complaint.
Because of the sequence of events that followed the claim decline Miss D and Mr H suffered 
distress and inconvenience. And whilst they werent living in a damaged home, there was 
still much uncertainty about how and when the problem would be solved  and how it would 
be paid for. Mr H has set out in particular the family struggles, especially as he was a key 
worker during the Covid pandemic. Mr H has also set out concerns about paying for two sets 
of living costs for an indeterminate amount of time and the impact this had on the familys 
finances alongside Miss Ds stress diagnosis. So, Im satisfied this has had a substantial 
impact on the family. In these circumstances, I consider QIC should pay compensation 
proportionate to that impact. So, I think the £1,000 in compensation as set out in our 
investigators view is a reasonable amount. This payment is solely to compensate for 
avoidable distress and isnt intended to cover any financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss D and Mr Hs complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
pay the claim in full (less excess and any premiums refunded) including any 
alternative accommodation and a disturbance allowance. This should include 
additional travel expenses, additional utility bills and any out of pocket expenses Miss 
D and Mr H had to pay.
However  if QIC hasnt drawn up a schedule of works for the reinstatement then Miss D and 
Mr H will need to provide details of the cost of the rectification works themselves.  Mr H has 
implied that not everything was completed because of costs and he had undertaken work 
himself. Hes also advised that they werent able to replace all contents. So QIC need to take 
into account the claim as a whole and pay what it wouldve paid if it had been on cover from 
the start, less any excess and any premiums that were refunded.  
8% simple interest should be added to the final settlement amount from date of claim 
to date of settlement offer
£1,000 compensation should be paid for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC should also remove any record of Miss D and Mr Hs policy being voided from its 
records and any other databases, such as CUE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman