DRN-3547100
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the support he received from WeFlex Ltd (WeFlex) when he was 
in financial hardship.  
What happened
In September 2019, Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement with WeFlex to acquire a 
car first registered in July 2017. The cash price of the car was around £16,850. The total 
amount payable was approximately £30,581. Mr L made an advance payment of around 
£2,500, and there were 207 weekly payments each around £135. There was an option to 
purchase the car at the end for a fee of £1. In March 2020, Mr L also opted into an optional 
car insurance provided by WeFlex. This increased his payments by around £70 to around 
£205 per week. 
 
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced that UK would enter a lockdown due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr L worked as a taxi driver, but he said that due to the pandemic 
he was advised to shield. In April 2020, Mr L was offered by WeFlex, and he accepted, a 
payment reduction for his insurance. This reduced his payment by £53.50 a week and was 
scheduled to run for four weeks, but Mr L made no payments during this period at all. In fact, 
no payments were made by Mr L for approximately five months, from mid-March 2020 to 
mid-August 2020.  
During this time, on 6 June 2020, WeFlex issued a notice of sums in arrears to Mr L, which 
totalled approximately £2,346. On 30 June 2020, WeFlex issued another notice of sum in 
arrears to Mr L when the shortfall on the agreement was around £2,961. On 15 July 2020, 
WeFlex offered to provide Mr L with a payment deferral, but Mr L didnt respond to their 
email. On 13 August Mr L made a payment of £70. And then, Mr L and WeFlex agreed to a 
two-week payment plan whereby he would make weekly payments of £100. This plan was 
then further extended for another four weeks starting on 11 September 2020. After the four-
week arrangement ended, Mr L continued to make £100 weekly payments, even though 
WeFlex advised him they would need to decide whether this was suitable for him 
considering the arrears on his account. 
On 5 October 2020, WeFlex sent another notice of sum in arrears to Mr L. During this time, 
Mr L told WeFlex that he wanted to keep the car. On 11 November 2020, WeFlex emailed 
Mr L and said that they are considering granting a payment deferral to him, but that they 
need to assess whether this is in his best interest. So, they asked Mr L to complete an 
affordability check using their online income and expenditure system. But as there was no 
response from Mr L the arrears on his account continued to accrue, and on 24 November 
2020 WeFlex issued a default notice. The arrears on the account at that time were around 
£6,121. Early in December 2020, WeFlex sent follow up correspondence to Mr L asking him 
to contact them or the account would be terminated on 7 December 2020. For about five 
weeks, from 30 October 2020 to 4 December 2020 Mr L made no payments at all. And on 4, 
and 11 December 2020, Mr L only paid £100.
On 14 December 2020, WeFlex emailed Mr L to say that his agreement would be terminated 
if he doesnt make a payment or if a payment arrangement isnt agreed. On 16 December 
2020, WeFlex terminated Mr Ls agreement. The arrears on the account at that time were 
around £6,536. Mr L didnt want to return the car and on 4 March 2021, WeFlex transferred 
the account to their solicitors, who contacted Mr L and requested the return of the car so that 
it could be sold; whereby Mr L would be liable for the remaining balance. Mr L accepted this 
solution because he felt this would reduce the amount he owed. But he was later told that 
this wouldnt happen, and that his account was passed on to WeFlexs collection agents. 
The agents would take the car and Mr L would be liable for the arrears owed plus any 
charges as per the terms and conditions of his finance agreement. Mr L was not happy with 
this and once again said he wanted to keep the car, so he refrained from returning the car. 
In April 2021, the car was collected. Upon inspection there was £650 damage identified, 
which WeFlex considered as outside of fair wear and tear. They also charged Mr L £150 
cleaning charge and £250 for a missing service. Together, including the arrears on Mr Ls 
account, this totalled £7,106. Mr L said the car had been collected without his consent and 
knowledge, which he said caused him to stress and worry when he noticed that the car was 
not where he left it. He feels that he shouldnt be responsible for the outstanding debt and 
that if the car was sold as he had been told initially, he would have less to pay. 
WeFlex feel that they have been open with offers of assistance and that options of support 
have been discussed throughout with Mr L. They said that Mr L benefited from their 
insurance price reduction and that they have offered him a payment deferral in July 2020 
and again in November 2020. In each instance they said Mr L didnt take them up on their 
offer. WeFlex said they are sympathetic to Mr Ls situation because of the health issues he 
has encountered and the impact of the pandemic on his ability to work. But they said, that 
due to the continued missed payments, the car was no longer affordable for him. So, they 
said that their decision to terminate the contract therefore stands, and recovery of the vehicle 
needed to proceed. As the car was not collected until April 2021, WeFlex say that Mr L 
continued to have use of the car without being charged during this period. Also, WeFlex said 
they didnt sell the car at the time due to market conditions and that the arrears are still owed 
by Mr L as they accrued while Mr L had use of the car. They explained that upon the return 
of the car, they will work with Mr L by considering a reasonable and affordable repayment 
plan towards the outstanding debt.
Mr L was unhappy with WeFlexs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
While Mr Ls complaint was at our service, he provided us with a copy of a service he had 
done on the car, so WeFlex removed the £250 charge for the missing service.
Our investigator thought that WeFlex were not being unreasonable in requesting that Mr L 
pays the outstanding arrears. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2022. In the provisional 
decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I would like to express my considerable sympathy for the position Mr L is in and for the 
health issues he has encountered. I know this has been a very difficult time for him. With that 
in mind, I know that what Im about to say will be unwelcome news to Mr L and Im truly sorry 
if my decision adds to his distress. But Im unable to uphold his complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr L acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
Termination of the agreement and repossession of the car 
In summary, Mr Ls main complaint point is that he was not treated fairly by WeFlex when he 
found himself in financial hardship.  
So, Ive considered whether WeFlex have done enough to support Mr L, when he told them 
that he was experiencing financial hardship. When doing so, Ive also thought about the 
relevant rules and guidance at the time. The rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to 
customers and consumers, and I will be using these words interchangeably, but in this 
decision the words are to have the same meaning.  
On 24 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) also published additional guidance  
Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance 
introduced temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by 
Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: (A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly).
In relation to the payment deferrals, the guidance states the following: Where a customer is 
already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as 
a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, 
a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm 
determines (acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
And it states that: In determining whether a three month payment deferral is obviously not in 
customers interests, firms should consider both customers need for immediate temporary 
support and the longer-term effects of a payment deferral on the customers situation, in 
particular the customers ability to repay any accrued interest once the payment deferral 
ends, and over what period. 
So, Ive thought about whether the above guidance applies to Mr L. And I think most likely it 
doesnt apply to him because the guidance states that it doesnt apply to credit agreements 
or consumer hire agreements for business purposes. Mr L was using his car as a taxi, so he 
was using his car predominantly for business purposes. Therefore, I dont think the above 
guidance applies to his circumstances, so WeFlex didnt need to provide him a with a 
payment deferral available under that guidance. But Ive considered that there were other 
reasons why they needed to treat him with forbearance and due consideration.The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that 
firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as 
considering suspending, reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time. So, based on this, Ive considered whether WeFlex provided Mr L with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
WeFlex on several occasions tried to assist Mr L. He got the benefit of reduced insurance 
payments early on. This was four payments that were reduced from £70 a month to £16.50. 
Later in July 2020, WeFlex offered him a payment deferral and once again they offered him 
a payment deferral in November 2020. Mr L didnt take them up on these two payment 
deferrals offers, but Ive taken into consideration that this assistance was offered to him. And 
from the contact notes I can also see that WeFlex tried to discuss options with Mr L a few 
times. And eventually in August 2020 WeFlex agreed a payment plan with Mr L. At that time, 
WeFlex agreed to a reduced payment of £100 per week, initially for two weeks and later 
extended this payment plan for a further four weeks. So, overall I think WeFlex provided Mr 
L with forbearance and due consideration. Bearing in mind that for approximately five 
months, from mid-March 2020 to mid-August 2020, Mr L made no payments at all, and that 
after the two payment plans (mentioned above) ended, the arrears on his account kept 
increasing as he was still unable to make full payments. I think WeFlex were patient with Mr 
L while they waited to see if his circumstances changed, and I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable for WeFlex to allow the arrears to increase indefinitely, so I think their decision to 
terminate the contract and to start the process of repossessing the car was a reasonable 
one. 
Mr L has told us that he wanted to keep the car but the agreement was unaffordable with 
significant amount of arrears, so I think it would not have been responsible for WeFlex to 
allow Mr L to continue with the finance agreement and get into further arrears. In their 
correspondence to Mr L, WeFlex set out the arrears on the account and explained what 
would happen if he didnt take action regarding the state of the account, this included 
sending out a default notice in November 2020 which explained that they could terminate his 
finance agreement and repossess the car. And in December 2020, WeFlex defaulted and 
terminated the agreement. This was reasonable considering the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Mr L, with the hope that he would be able to keep the car, paid the following amounts 
towards the finance agreement: £205 on 18 December 2020, £150 on 25 December 2020, 
£100 on 31 December 2020 and £50 on 7 January 2021. But his financial situation was not 
that much different, the payments were significantly below the contractual weekly payments, 
and at this point the finance agreement was already terminated. Even if WeFlex agreed to 
reinstate the finance agreement, Mr L wouldve only incurred further arrears, so, I dont think 
it would have been reasonable for them to do so. 
In March 2021, Mr L received a letter from WeFlex agents which said that he could either 
return the car or make a payment of £12,815 to cover the outstanding balance. This 
correspondence explained that if the car is returned, it will be sold, and credit will be given 
for the net sale proceeds thereby reducing the amount that Mr L owed to WeFlex. Mr L said 
that on that basis he was happy to return the car, and he feels that he hasnt been treated 
fairly because WeFlex later decided not to sell the car. 
The car belonged to WeFlex, so they were within their right to make a choice of whether to 
sell it or not, but I have considered that the usual process in this type of situations wouldve 
been to sell the car. But I have also considered that Mr L under his contractual obligation was responsible for the arrears on the account which were incurred while he had use of the 
car, and he was responsible for all the payments that were missed up to the termination of 
the agreement. Also, he had access and could use the car for a few months after the 
agreement was terminated and before it was repossessed without being charged during this 
time. So, considering all of the above I dont think WeFlex treated him unfairly by not selling 
the car. And it is only fair that Mr L is responsible for the payments that were due up to the 
date the finance agreement was terminated. 
Mr L is also unhappy that WeFlex collected the car without giving him notice and or seeking 
consent from him. But until all the payments are made on the car, it belonged to WeFlex and 
they followed the correct procedures as mentioned above when going through termination of 
the agreement and repossession process. Also, Mr L had paid less than a third of the total 
amount repayable, so WeFlex didnt require a court order to repossess the car. They also 
didnt require consent from him to repossess the car, and Mr L was aware that as the 
agreement was terminated the car will have to go back to WeFlex. 
End of contract charges 
Mr Ls agreement with WeFlex sets out that he needs to keep and maintain the car in a good 
state of repair and condition. Ive looked at the end of contract charges WeFlex felt were 
outside of fair wear and tear. When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant 
industry guidance. Here, the relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear 
published by the trade body the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). The 
BVRLA guidance is generally intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of 
their first finance agreement, so its used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few 
years old. But it can also be used for older cars, where the age of a car and the number of 
miles it has covered are taken into account, and when considering what would be deemed 
fair wear and tear. Ive also considered that the BVRLA guidance is just that - guidance. 
While I take it into consideration, I also need to take into consideration whats fair and 
reasonable in the situation here. So, I think its fair that any damage is assessed by 
considering whether its reasonable to expect this type of damage, given the cars age, and 
its mileage.
The car was around two years old, when Mr L acquired it. It had had a cash price of around 
£16,850, which I think, most likely, was consistent with a car in a good condition. After the 
car was repossessed and an inspection was done in April 2021, it was approximately four 
years old and had travelled around 48,081 miles. So, Ive taken all of this into consideration 
when reviewing the inspection report, which was done after the car was collected. And in 
deciding whether WeFlex have acted fairly in relation to each charge, Ive taken into 
consideration the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, 
as well as the age and mileage of the car when it was returned. 
Mr L has been charged as there was a dent in the passengers side rear wing. The BVRLA 
guidance sets out that Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are 
no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Based on the pictures on 
the inspection report, I can see that the dent is bigger than 15mm, so I consider this to be 
representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear. Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for WeFlex to charge for this damage a total of £300. And the actual charge itself 
doesnt seem unreasonable.  
Mr L was also charged £350 for a missing charging cable. Considering that this item forms 
part of the standard equipment for this car model, I think most likely the supplying dealer 
made sure that it was included at the time Mr L took possession of the car, and Ive not been 
presented with any evidence that allows me to conclude that these were not in the car when 
he took delivery of it. Hence, I think its fair for WeFlex to charge him for this cable. WeFlex also charged Mr L £150 for valeting. The BVRLA guidance sets out that the inside of 
the car should have been valeted and cleared of rubbish. Based on the pictures on the 
inspection report, I can see that the car was very dirty and there was a lot of rubbish inside. 
So, I think it was fair for WeFlex to charge for this. And the actual charge itself doesnt seem 
unreasonable.  
Overall, I sympathise with Mr L for the difficulties that he is experiencing but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr L has been treated unfairly.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 15 June 2022.  
Mr L responded and WeFlex didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L in his response to my provisional decision, questioned whether he received the £53.50 
insurance payment reduction, as he thinks this was only available to individuals that were 
working, and he said he wasnt. But Ive seen statements for his account and, from there, I 
can see that WeFlex did assist him and provided him with a reduction on his insurance 
payments. This included four payments that were reduced from £70 a month to £16.50, 
equivalent of the £53.50 payment reduction mentioned above.
Mr L has also said that when he received the notices that his account was in arrears, he 
thought these were just statements. He said that at the time he may not have understood 
WeFlex as he thought that they too told him that these were just statements. But I can see 
that in their correspondence to Mr L, WeFlex set out the arrears on the account and 
explained what would happen if he didnt take action regarding the state of the accounts. 
The default notice in November 2020 explained that WeFlex could terminate his finance 
agreement and repossess the car. Also, from the contact notes, I can see that the gravity of 
the situation was explained to Mr L. So, overall I think he most likely was aware of the 
consequences of the notices that were sent to him.
Mr L in his response to my provisional decision said that he thinks his finance agreement 
was terminated on the phone by one of the WeFlex agents who he thinks maybe got jealous  
because during her time away from the office he was dealing with another agent. So, Mr L 
thinks that there were personal not professional reasons for why his finance agreement 
was terminated. And, he also thinks that WeFlex shouldve waited for international borders to 
open so that he could bring money from back home. In summary, Mr L said that he just 
needed more time as he was unable to work because he was following government 
guidance which told him to self-isolate. But like I mentioned in my provisional decision, 
WeFlex on several occasions tried to assist Mr L. He got the benefit of reduced insurance 
payments, he was offered a payment deferral twice, and in August 2020 they agreed a 
payment plan with him. So, they provided him with forbearance and due consideration. Mr L 
from mid-March 2020 to mid-August 2020 made no payments at all, and when the two 
payment plans ended, the arrears on the account kept increasing. The agreement was 
unaffordable with significant amount of arrears. Overall, WeFlex were patient with Mr L and they did wait a significant amount of time to see if his circumstances would change. Also, I 
dont think it wouldve been reasonable for them to allow the arrears on Mr Ls account to 
increase indefinitely, so I still think their decision to terminate the contract and to start the 
process of repossessing the car was a reasonable one. 
Mr L said that WeFlex couldve had the damage to the car repaired under his car insurance. 
He said that if he had the money for the insurance excess, he wouldve arranged the repairs 
with the insurance himself. He also said that if WeFlex told him they were coming to collect 
the car he wouldve returned the extra key and the charger he had for the car. But Im still 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for WeFlex to charge for the damage and the missing 
charging cable. It was Mr L that was responsible to keep and main the car in a good state of 
repair and condition, as per his finance agreement with WeFlex. Also, Mr L knew that 
WeFlex were trying to repossess the car for a few months, so I think there was ample time to 
get these issues sorted. In addition, shortly after the care was repossessed, Mr L still 
couldve returned the charging cables to them, but he didnt, and considering the amount of 
time that has passed I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to reduce the charge for 
the damage and the missing charging cables now. 
Mr L has also said that he would be willing to ask his family back home to transfer a certain 
amount of money to WeFlex, so that WeFlex can give him a car with reasonable mileage, 
one that is a hybrid with one year warranty and first registered in 2017. But even though I 
sympathise with Mr L, the health issues he has encountered, and the position he finds 
himself in, I cant ask WeFlex to do that because taking all of the circumstances of the 
complaint into account, I still dont think Mr L has been treated unfairly by them. I still think it 
is only fair that Mr L is responsible for the payments that were due up to the date the finance 
agreement was terminated, plus for the damage charges and missing items when the car 
was collected.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman