DRN-3290443
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. So, 
to keep things simple, Ill therefore refer to QFP.
What happened
Mr B approached QFP in September 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
QFP initially completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. A summary is broadly as follows:
Mr B was 54 years old, married with no dependent children. He had very recently 
been made redundant and so at the time had no current job or income. He said he 
was in good health. His wife, Mrs B, was 47 and had an ongoing chronic medical 
condition, although worked part-time and earned £12,000 per year. 
Mr B had very recently been paid around £22,000 in redundancy and this 
represented most of his savings at the time. He and Mrs B had a mortgage 
outstanding of £70,000 on their home, said to be worth around £140,000. They had 
unsecured credit card debt and a loan totaling around £8,000.
After being a member of his OPS for over 30 years, Mr B was now classed as a 
deferred member. The Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of Mr Bs OPS was £407,709. 
Mr Bs OPS had a normal retirement age of 65. 
Mr B had an aspiration to stop working and draw from his pension savings more or 
less straight away, at age 55.
In November 2016, QFP went on to recommend to Mr B that he should transfer out of his DB 
OPS and into a personal pension plan. It said he should invest the proceeds in funds 
commensurate with his attitude to risk (ATR) which it said was balanced. The 
recommendation report noted that now being a deferred member of the DB scheme, the 
OPS benefits available to him immediately  taking the benefits at 55, for example  would 
be substantially reduced. 
QFP recommended the transfer saying it would enable Mr B to access a cash lump-sum of 
25% of his pension and thus allow him to fulfil his main preference which was to stop 
working (retire) early. It said this would also allow him to take a draw down income to meet 
his target income of £20,000 a year gross. 
Mr B acted on the advice by transferring out. However, in 2020 he complained to QFP that 
the advice was unsuitable and had caused him losses and he later referred the complaint to 
our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. 
They thought Mr B would not have transferred out if QFP had given him suitable advice. 
QFP didnt agree with our investigator and made a number of points which I address in my 
decision. However, it specifically said it had made it clear that the transfer out wouldnt 
replicate Mr Bs OPS scheme, and that he was fully aware of the risks. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, QFP should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the advice to transfer out was in 
his best interests.
Financial comparisons and viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Bs OPS benefits at age 65 was 9.4% if he took a full 
pension of £23,633 per year. Alternatively, QFP said if he took a tax-free cash element at 65 
and a reduced pension of £16,521, the critical yield was 8%. The relevant discount rate 
closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was published by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for the period before October 2017 and was 3.8% per year for 10 years 
to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I have kept in mind that Mr Bs retirement aspirations were to access his pension savings at 
around the age of 55, rather than 65. Nevertheless, the above figures demonstrate, in my 
view, just how much Mr Bs transferred funds would need to grow by even to match those in 
his OPS. Ive also seen a transfer analysis carried out for QFP which shows the critical yield 
figures based on retiring earlier than 65 were much higher still than those Ive set out above. 
QFP also said that at 55 years old Mr Bs OPS could pay him £8,133 per year with a tax-free 
lump sum of £54,223  and to buy such benefits on the open market this could cost around 
£611,000.
I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate and Mr Bs balanced attitude to risk. There would be little point in Mr B giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his OPS only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside that scheme. But here, given what Ive pointed out above, I think that by transferring out, Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower amount, whether 
his retirement plans came sooner or later.
QFP provided quite a few cashflow models which it says showed whether, and for how long, 
Mr B might have been able to meet his financial needs in retirement if he transferred out. 
The models show a depletion of the funds at the age of around 77 and as QFP will know, 
past performance is no guarantee for future performance.  So, I consider the discount rates 
and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term 
rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. 
And all these show that transferring out made him worse off in the long-term.
For these reasons, a transfer out of Mr Bs OPS was not in his best interests from a financial 
comparison perspective. Of course, I completely accept financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice; there might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive therefore considered these 
below.
Flexibility and income needs
Whilst I think its fair to say Mr Bs plans about retiring werent completely fixed, he told QFP 
hed like to access his pension savings at around the age of 55. He made that quite clear, 
although he did say that if necessary hed find other work to top up his income. Ive noted the 
possibility of working again was mentioned in QFPs own letter to Mr B of 19 November 2016 
when introducing its recommendations. I see that Mr B also specifically said that there was 
the possibility of a job at the same company hed worked for up until very recently, although 
what looked like at a lower grade and proportionately less pay. I think these things were 
important considerations and relevant to what Mr B might be advised to do.
However, in my view, Mr Bs preference to hopefully cease working altogether formed the 
major objective on which QFPs recommendation report was then based. I think this caused 
the subsequent advice to be flawed because the starting position, as Ive described above, 
should have been that transferring out of Mr Bs DB scheme was likely to be unsuitable. And 
as weve seen from the above, QFPs own analysis tended to confirm this, at least from a 
financial perspective. 
Nonetheless, QFP placed Mr Bs aspirations around early retirement ahead of all the other 
necessary considerations and in effect, this became the starting point for the advice. I can 
see, for example, that under Goals & Objectives, the transferring out of the DB pension 
was listed as goal number 1. And whilst Ive got no doubts this was placed there as a direct 
result of what Mr B himself told QFP, its role was to provide objective advice, rather than to 
merely transact what Mr B aspired to. I think that despite what Mr B thought he wanted, his 
expectation in seeking, and indeed paying for, regulated financial advice was probably that 
he would be carefully guided on the basis of his circumstances. I dont think QFP adequately 
did this.
I say this because Mr Bs aspirations for more or less immediate retirement, at the age of 55, 
may well have been unrealistic, given the financial situation he was in. I note that Mr Bs 
OPS was his only retirement provision, other than his state pension due at the age of 67, so 
it was important there was a clear financial basis for any recommendations to leave it. Other 
relevant factors were his current income which had recently reduced to zero as a 
consequence of his redundancy and that he was funding some of his current living costs 
from his redundancy payment. On the other hand, Mrs B had an income, albeit a part-time 
one and theres no suggestion their mortgage or unsecured debts were unmanageable at 
the time, and their overall living costs were clearly set out, at around £1,850 per month. Against this backdrop, I think it was important for QFP to point out that Mr Bs aspirations to 
stop working at that point in his life could be viewed as somewhat premature on the basis of 
his overall circumstances. Giving up the benefits and guarantees in his OPS by transferring 
out needed to be assessed against the option of remaining inside the scheme and 
continuing to meet their monthly requirements with a combination of Mrs Bs income and 
potentially Mr B re-starting paid employment himself. I also dont think Mr B had arrived near 
to a situation yet where access to immediate cash from his pension was so urgent, to the 
extent no other options, other than to transfer out, were available to him.
However, I dont think QFP set any of this out for Mr B clearly enough when it advised him; 
instead it defaulted to him transferring out, citing the following and rather unspecific reasons 
as to why:
Matching his OPS benefits wasnt important to him.
His priority was to access drawdown and have flexibility.
Obtaining an immediate secure income from the OPS wasnt a priority for him
In my view, these reasons to transfer were both poorly defined and poorly evidenced by 
QFP. I dont think theres any evidence that Mr B considered having an index-linked pension 
with many guarantees and benefits as not being important. Nor do I think he required the 
flexibility in retirement as claimed above; Mr B appeared to have a well-defined monthly 
figure he was working to which he knew would provide a reasonable living for him and Mrs B 
moving forward.
I also think it should have been pointed out to Mr B that retiring at 55 was relatively early and 
probably only recommended with more substantial assets and cash than he currently had. 
But because he himself had expressed a preference for retirement, QFPs advice was very 
focussed on this from the beginning, rather than an objective analysis of his situation.
Mr B had indicated he could return to earning an income in a number of different scenarios. 
So, I think that with those new earnings, together with Mrs Bs part-time income, it would 
have been possible for Mr B to continue to meet his monthly financial needs, at least in the 
short-to-medium term. This would have allowed him to stay in the OPS. I accept this may 
have required some careful thought, particularly when considering the possibility that Mrs Bs 
income could potentially change. Nonetheless, Mr B did have some redundancy cash which 
might have helped supplement income when needed or reduce some of the debt.
I have considered whether, in looking at Mr Bs situation through a different lens, he could be 
said to have had other reasons to transfer out, specifically for the purpose of quickly 
accessing tax-free cash or to drawdown cash as needed. Ive also considered whether he 
could have done anything else. But as weve seen, the financial comparisons showed this 
transfer was likely to leave Mr B in a much worse position in the longer-term and importantly, 
likely to run out in his 70s. Taking early retirement at around 55 whilst remaining in the 
scheme was also not something he would have wanted to do, due to the scheme rules. So, I 
dont think hed have found these attractive options if more comprehensively explained.
Death benefits
This issue was mentioned by QFP as being important to Mr B and discussed. Death benefits 
are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones 
to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B and I note that QFP says this was something Mr B was interested in when he spoke with the adviser  he found the option of passing on 
money after his death useful.
However, whilst I appreciate death benefits were important to Mr B, and he might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension partly because 
of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think QFP 
explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
I think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B was 
married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been useful to 
Mrs B if Mr B predeceased her. I dont think QFP made the value of this benefit clear enough 
to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance - whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any 
event, QFP should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. I note Mr B had some life 
insurance, although the end date wasnt made clear.
Overall however, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Was the advice to transfer suitable?
Taking account of everything Ive seen I think the advice provided by QFP to transfer out of 
Mr Bs OPS was unsuitable. It was not in Mr Bs interests to transfer out and into a personal 
pension.
Mr B had only just been made redundant and was comparatively young. The option to stay 
within the OPS and take early benefits, at the age of 55, was most likely something Mr B 
would not have wanted to do. This was because, as a recently deferred member taking early 
retirement, there were substantial reductions in the benefits due. That this didnt feature that 
much in the advice isnt particularly relevant. 
However, the option to go ahead and transfer out of the OPS was poorly explained and not 
sufficiently weighed-up for Mr B. QFPs own comparisons showed he would be much worse 
off in the longer-term. It also largely overlooked the cash in retirement shortfall in Mr Bs late 
70s, saying only that he wasnt bothered about his funds running out. Similarly, the 
significant benefits, index-linking and guarantees of the OPS were underplayed. Mr Bs need 
for so called flexibility from a drawdown arrangement wasnt clearly defined.
Overall, I think the advice provided by QFP was flawed, focussing as it did on transferring 
out to meet Mr Bs hope that he might retire early. Options for Mr B to re-seek an income, 
reduce his outgoings and restructure his modest debts, whilst maintaining his OPS benefits, 
were overlooked.
Other issues and complaint points
Mr B made some allegations in his complaint about QFP not taking account of his 
opportunity to remain in the OPS at the very outset of its dealings with him. He implied this 
might have been possible by him taking a lower paid job, rather than him leaving on 
redundancy, and being then able to remain an active member of the OPS for a longer 
period. He also complained the funds into which his pension was placed after the transfer 
were unsuitable, given his ATR, and also moved periodically without his permission.However, Ive found nothing to support these allegations. Looking at the timescales involved, 
I dont think QFP was brought onto the scene quickly enough for Mr B to consider taking an 
internal job with the same company thus avoiding him leaving the OPS in the first place. 
The financial advice provided by QFP was not formally delivered until the late autumn of 
2016 and we know Mr B had already been made redundant as of August 2016. So, to be 
clear, hed already taken redundancy by the time of the advice.
As far as the fund management issues are concerned, our investigator comprehensively 
dealt with these in her view letter and I agree with her conclusions. The issues Ive dealt 
with in the preceding paragraphs are the much more substantive ones in this case  and the 
main issues Ive rightly focussed on.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the QFP to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for QFPs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
QFP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
QFP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date QFP receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes QFP to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
QFP pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only 
require Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out 
above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman