DRN-3722035
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly gave her an Amazon Mastercard credit 
card account that she couldnt afford. For simplicity I will refer to the business as 
NewDay. 
What happened
On 2 April 2020, Mrs B applied for a credit account with NewDay. She was given an initial 
credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased twice; to £1,500 on 31 December 2020 
and to £2,750 on 26 April 2021.   
In 2021, Mrs B complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. NewDay didnt agree. So, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 8 September 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not 
to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mrs Bs complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer and to consider this in association with Mrs Bs 
management of her account in making further lending decisions about credit limit increases. 
Its possible that NewDay failed to make adequate checks before providing Mrs B with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to 
think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the minimum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest as well. From the evidence submitted, 
there were no payment issues in the life of this account through all of the increases to the 
credit limit. And the credit file suggests that throughout this time Mrs B was managing her 
other credit well. 
Its not straightforward trying to determine affordability at the time of the lending. Mrs B 
has provided some statements for one of her bank accounts. But whilst it is interesting 
because it shows a number of entries to do with gambling, I dont think this is the bank 
account that NewDay would have been shown had they conducted a more searching 
check of Mrs Bs finances. I say that because the bank account I have seen has no entry 
for Mrs Bs income, which was presumably paid into a different account. And the 
statements we have seen have no entries for normal expenditure, such as housing costs, 
utilities or food. 
So, I dont think that the statements we have been shown would have been presented to 
NewDay, had they asked for statements, because they dont show normal income and 
expenditure. And it is clear from the statements that Mrs B had another account. Mrs B 
has been asked to send us statements for that account, but at the time of writing has not 
done so. But because we havent seen those statements, I cant be satisfied that NewDay 
would have found any of the lending it offered Mrs B to be unaffordable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mrs B was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Mrs B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the credit and the credit increases, 
I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 22 September 2022. At the time of writing, neither NewDay nor 
Mrs B have acknowledged receiving the decision, made any further submission or made a 
request for a time extension to do so. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to 
make substantive further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mrs Bs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman