DRN-3027202
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about their mortgage they hold with Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Heliodor Mortgages. They say it was mis-sold because:
it runs into their retirements, and
they were lent more than the property was worth.
They say theyre now unable to remortgage to another lender to get a better rate, and 
theyve been on the standard variable rate (SVR) since 2011.
What happened
The mortgage completed in December 2005, with Mr and Mrs W borrowing £133,000 as a 
mortgage, plus an additional £30,000 as an unsecured loan. The mortgage and unsecured 
loan were originally with a different lender and were taken out on a non-advised basis with a 
term of 35 years. The interest rate for both the mortgage and unsecured loan was fixed at 
5.99% until 1 January 2011, and thereafter it would move to the SVR which was 6.59% at 
the time the mortgage offer was issued.
In 2019 the mortgage and unsecured loan were passed to Heliodor. Mr and Mrs W 
complained to Heliodor in December 2019. They said that they were trying to remortgage, 
and when doing so they were told that their existing mortgage had been mis-sold.
Heliodor didnt uphold the complaint, saying no advice had been given. It said the lender 
queried the mortgage term at the time of application, and Mr and Mrs W wrote a letter saying 
they had sufficient pensions to maintain the mortgage in retirement. It also said that the 
property was downvalued to £140,000 (from the £165,000 Mr and Mrs W had thought it was 
worth) which reduced the mortgage from the £161,500 Mr and Mrs W requested to 
£133,000.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to us, and it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator said that we werent able to consider the original sale of the mortgage, or 
the interest rate before December 2013. She said Mr and Mrs W hadnt complained within 
our time limits for those issues. She said that since December 2013 Mr and Mrs W had been 
charged interest in line with the terms and conditions of their account, and that Heliodor 
doesnt offer new rates as it isnt an active lender.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, saying they didnt know about the time constraints and they 
wouldnt have taken out the mortgage if theyd known they were borrowing more than the 
house was worth. They also said their son was able to get a new rate.
I issued a decision in September 2021 to explain which parts of this complaint we could and 
couldnt consider. I said we couldnt consider the original sale of the mortgage in 2005, or the 
rates charged on the mortgage before December 2013. Thats because those parts of the 
complaint had been made too late. I said we could consider what had happened since 
December 2013, and that I would be issuing my decision about that separately. That is what 
I am now doing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say theyd been trying to remortgage for about 10 years now but have been 
unable to do so due to the size of their mortgage in relation to the value of their property. 
Theyve said that is because their property was overvalued when the mortgage was 
originally taken out in 2005. As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction, thats not a 
point Im able to consider because Mr and Mrs W didnt complain about it within the time 
limits set out in our rules. All Im able to consider is the interest rate theyve been charged 
since December 2013.
I have considerable sympathy with the situation Mr and Mrs W find themselves in. The 
lending environment when they took their mortgage out was very different. 
The original lender was nationalised, and as part of that wasnt able to offer new interest rate 
products to its customers. That means when Mr and Mrs Ws fixed rate came to an end in 
2011 their mortgage moved to the SVR in line with their mortgage contract, and the lender 
couldnt offer them a new fixed rate product instead of that.
When Heliodor took over the mortgage it was on the SVR, and that continues to be applied. 
Heliodors not an active lender and isnt trying to attract new customers through offering low 
rates. All its customers move onto - and remain on - the SVR once their previous interest 
rate products expire. To that extent, its not treating Mr and Mrs W any differently from any of 
its other customers.
Although Heliodor is a closed book lender (in that its not taking on new business) its still 
regulated by the FCA and must follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules that 
says a lender has to offer new interest rates to its customers once their old ones expire. The 
rules say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their best interests; it 
has to communicate with them in a clear, fair and not misleading way; it has to notify them of 
changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt take advantage of customers who cant 
move their mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics. 
Heliodor has notified Mr and Mrs W of changes to their payments when the SVR changed, 
as did the previous lender. From what I can see both Heliodor and the previous lender 
altered the SVR in line with changes to the Bank of England base rate in the period Im able 
to consider, even though the SVR isnt a base rate tracker product. And it isnt treating them 
differently from its other customers  all customers must stay on the SVR once their 
products expire, just like Mr and Mrs W. So, I dont think Heliodor is in breach of any of the 
regulators rules in not offering them a new rate. 
I dont think Heliodor is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either, and 
neither was the previous lender. Nothing in the mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say 
that Mr and Mrs W would be entitled to another preferential interest rate after their 
preferential rate expired. Im aware, of course, that its common for borrowers to take a 
preferential rate product  and then take another rate rather than revert to the SVR. 
Sometimes thats with an existing lender; sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, 
theres nothing in Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage agreement that says theyre entitled to a new 
rate. Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires a new interest rate to be offered. Nor is the lender under any other legal 
obligation to do so. 
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. I do that by considering the law, regulators rules and guidance, and 
good industry practice  but ultimately, Im not constrained by them if I think fairness requires 
me to do something else. So, the question I must answer is whether, taking into account the 
rules and the mortgage terms, its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Heliodor 
(and the previous lender) havent offered Mr and Mrs W a new interest rate thats lower than 
the SVR. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive considered everything Ive set out above. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs W have ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt 
offer new rates. But Heliodor is their lender, and legitimately so. It doesnt offer new interest 
rates to any customers, including Mr and Mrs W. Under current law and regulations, thats a 
position Heliodor is entitled to take. Im mindful that if Heliodor were to offer new lower rates 
to some customers, but not others, that could mean some customers were being treated less 
favourably than others with similar characteristics  which in turn could potentially cause 
unfairness. But that isnt currently the case. 
Theres nothing in Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage agreement that would prevent them 
remortgaging elsewhere  theyre no longer liable for an early repayment charge, for 
example. But the reason they say they cant do that is because of external factors  their 
loan to value and their ages. 
Heliodors not treating Mr and Mrs W any differently from how it treats its other customers. 
Theres nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires Heliodor to offer 
new products. Heliodor itself isnt standing in the way of Mr and Mrs W moving their 
mortgage elsewhere. Its treating them the same as it treats all its other customers. And Im 
also mindful that while Heliodors SVR is significantly higher than new interest rate products 
offered by other lenders, its not dissimilar to other lenders SVRs for similar mortgages. 
Taking the facts of this case into account, and considering the law, rules and my findings 
about Heliodors business model and the level of its SVR, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
Heliodor has made arrangements for its borrowers to see whether they can move elsewhere 
to a lender that would offer new interest rates. Further details can be found at 
www.heliodormortgages.co.uk/mortgages/remortgaging.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman