DRN-1462305
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was negligent when it transferred money from her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another business.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs B completed a form instructing Lloyds to transfer £50,000 from her Lloyds 
ISA to another ISA provider, who Ill refer to as X.
X has since gone into administration and is currently being investigated by various 
authorities, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And HMRC has announced that 
the ISAs offered by X did not comply with the requirements of ISA regulations.
Mrs B raised a complaint with Lloyds. She didnt think Lloyds had completed adequate 
checks before transferring the money to X.
Lloyds said it had followed Mrs Bs signed instruction to transfer the £50,000 to X. At the 
time, X was authorised as an ISA manager by HMRC. It sent the funds by cheque because 
X wasnt on the ISA transfer portal system. Lloyds said it didnt have an obligation to 
investigate the underlying products held within the ISA wrapper.
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. This included concerns about Lloyds handling of 
her complaint and data subject access request (DSAR).
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought Lloyds had 
acted reasonably when it transferred the funds to X. He acknowledged that Lloyds had sent 
information requested in the DSAR outside of the relevant timescales, but he didnt think 
Lloyds needed to compensate Mrs B for the delay because it didnt appear to have had an 
impact on her.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to say how very sorry I am to learn of the difficulties Mrs B is 
experiencing. She invested a substantial amount of money with X. So, I can understand why 
she might want to explore every avenue to try to recover these funds. 
Id also like to reassure Mrs B that I have considered all the points shes raised even if I 
havent addressed each of them individually. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds didnt advise Mrs B to move her money to X. So, it wasnt responsible for ensuring 
that Mrs Bs investment was suitable for her. Mrs B had the right to transfer her ISA from Lloyds by making a transfer application to the new ISA manager (X). So, Lloyds had an 
obligation to comply with Mrs Bs request once it received Mrs Bs signed transfer form.
HMRC announced it had decided the ISAs offered by X did not comply with the requirements 
of the ISA regulations in March 2019. But HMRC made this decision some time after Mrs B 
transferred her funds to X. Im satisfied that X was authorised as an ISA manager when 
Lloyds completed the transfer in July 2018.
So, I think Lloyds acted reasonably when it transferred the £50,000 to X at Mrs Bs request.
Mrs B has raised concerns about Lloyds transferring the money by cheque and where the 
money ended up. But I dont think this is the issue. From what Ive seen and been told, 
Lloyds transferred the funds to the intended recipient  X. The issue is that X is now under 
administration and is being investigated by various authorities. Mrs B is waiting to find out if 
she will receive any of her investment back from the administrators, and also if she has a 
valid claim for compensation from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
I appreciate this is a very worrying time for Mrs B, but I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Lloyds responsible for the situation shes in. I wish her every success in recovering the 
money shes invested. But Ive decided not to uphold her complaint against Lloyds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman