DRN-2869011
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc failed to help when she wanted to transfer the 
proceeds of a maturing bond into a new two-year fixed-rate bond.
What happened
Mrs W had invested in a bond which had matured, leading to £73,900 being held in a 
matured funds access account. This is a holding account where funds are held until the 
money is reinvested in a new product or withdrawn.
Secure Trust began offering a new bond  two years fixed at 1.35% - which Mrs W decided 
she wanted to invest in. She contacted Secure Trust by secure message to ask for that to 
be arranged. Secure Trust told her they couldnt do this by secure message and directed 
her to apply online.
Mrs W tried to apply online on the same day  17 September 2020  but kept getting errors 
during the application process. She told Secure Trust about these problems.
Secure Trust replied on 24 September 2020  two days after the bond closed  telling her 
there was nothing that could be done as the bond had closed. Mrs W was unhappy with 
this as she wasnt able to find a similar rate in the market.
An investigator at this service did not feel Secure Trust had done anything wrong, saying:
She didnt think it was unreasonable for Secure Trust to insist on Mrs W completing 
an application (as opposed to acting solely on the basis of her secure message 
request). This was standard business practice in order to comply with a number of 
rules and regulations around transferring a clients money
Secure Trust confirmed the errors Mrs W saw were an isolated incident and the 
online application had worked for other customers at the time. Had it been 
widespread, then its process would have been to remove the application facility 
from the online banking section
As such, she couldnt say Secure Trust fell below what we would expect. From time 
to time, online services can fail which is an inherent element of offering products 
online. In such situations, we consider how much the business knew about the 
problem in assessing whether we think it fell below expectations. In Mrs Ws 
situation it appears on balance to have been a one-off problem
She appreciated that Mrs W wouldve expected Secure Trust to get back to her more 
quickly but, it had responded within its usual timescales. As such, there was no 
evidence that an unreasonable delay had contributed to Mrs W being unable to 
invest
It is unfortunate that the bond closed in that time, but she couldnt fairly conclude that 
Secure Trust needed to do more. Once the bond had closed it was no longer open 
to further investment; so Secure Trust couldnt include her into that tranche of bond 
subscriptions
She acknowledged that Mrs W had kept her money in the non-interest gathering 
account in the expectation that Secure Trust would sort the problem out, thereby 
losing out on potential interest throughout this process. But she didnt feel Secure 
Trust could be held responsible for this as, in her view, it had not done anything 
wrong
She noted that Secure Trust had offered Mrs W £100 in lieu of the problems shed 
faced with the online form  and felt this was fair 
Mrs W did not agree, with her representative saying:
The existing conduct rules state that "(a firm) must pay due regard to the interests of 
customers and to treat them fairly". In addition, one of the six customer outcomes 
states that "customers can be confident that they are dealing with firms where the fair 
treatment of customers is central to the corporate culture"
I think what is also interesting is the latest FCA Consultation Paper which reflects on 
a new statement of either "a firm must act in the best interests of retail clients" or "a 
firm must act to deliver good outcomes for retail clients". Whilst both of these last two 
statements are currently just part of the consultation, they do provide insight into how 
they expect firms to be behaving currently
However, I think that whatever measure above you reflect on, it is difficult to 
understand how the outcome for Mrs W is either fair or puts her interests first!
The investigators point about the Bank's technical issues that have caused the issue 
being a one-off and not systemic makes it even more difficult to understand why they 
haven't acted in a way to ensure Mrs W isn't financially effected
I have looked back on the £100 compensation offered by Secure Trust and they did 
stipulate that actioning it would be treated as a "full and final offer" and only valid for 
28 days so this option is no longer open to us
Finally, Mrs W's losses have been greatly increased due to the excess of eight 
weeks Secure Trust took to provide a response to our complaint (a frustration added 
to by the fact that the letter with the findings was sent to an unknown third party) 
along with the 26 weeks that the complaint has been with the Financial Ombudsmen
I did make this point when we spoke to FOS to establish the progress of the case 
and was assured that this was understood and would be factored into any settlement
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
I fully understand Mrs Ws frustration and disappointment with what occurred and accept that 
she lost the opportunity to invest in the new bond through no fault of her own. But, my role and that of this service, is to assess whether a business  in this case Secure Trust  clearly 
did something wrong. And, having read all the evidence, I cant fairly conclude that it did.
Firstly, it was definitely not in a position to take instructions from Mrs W via secure message. 
Due to the ever-increasing fraudulent activity, banks have clear and extensive 
responsibilities to only act under client instructions provided through the correct channels. It 
would have been completely wrong to move Mrs Ws money without the appropriate signed 
application form.
Secondly, it is unavoidable that online systems occasionally fail. It would not be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that any failure at any time meant a business had done something 
wrong. When general failures occur, we expect businesses to deal promptly with them, but I 
dont think this issue arises here.
Its also not reasonable, in my view, to expect businesses to act instantly when dealing with 
queries or requests regarding online issues. While it was particularly unfortunate that it did 
not respond for a week, I cant say this wasnt within a reasonable time period. In this 
respect, I dont share Mrs Ws representatives view that this breaches the spirit or the 
regulations governing good customer service.
As I dont believe the evidence indicates Secure Trust did anything wrong, I cant say it 
should be responsible for Mrs Ws decision not to reinvest this money while her complaint 
was being dealt with. From what Ive read, Secure Trust did not indicate it would backdate 
any offer and so Mrs W was offered no reassurance that it would put things right.
I am very sorry for the lengthy delay before this service was able to assess her complaint. 
Had we upheld it, we would still have needed to question whether Mrs W should be fully 
compensated for choosing not to reinvest her money sooner (it being a well-established 
legal principle that someone should try and mitigate their losses even while pursuing a 
claim).
However, as we have not upheld Mrs Ws complaint, this does not arise. Id like to repeat 
that I fully recognise how unfortunate this whole episode was, but it was ultimately Mrs Ws 
decision not to reinvest this money as soon as she discovered she had missed the new bond 
deadline.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman