DRN-4172819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold life insurance policies because 
cover wasnt provided for the duration of their lifetime. 
What happened
This complaint is about the advice Mr and Mrs A received in 2002 to each take out level term 
life insurance policies. The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for the following 
reasons:  
I can see from the point-of-sale documents Lloyds recommended 20-year level term 
life insurance policies. Mr and Mrs A each took out a policy in their own name. Id 
note these types of policies only provide cover for the agreed term and dont provide 
lifetime protection. 
Ive reviewed the fact find from 2002. I can see the advisor made a record of Mr and 
Mrs As personal and financial circumstances at the time. This included income and 
expenditure, details of financial liabilities, as well as existing protection. Im satisfied 
the advisor sought to obtain sufficient information to make a suitable 
recommendation. The advisor identified a shortfall in the protection. 
The documents show Mr and Mrs As objectives were to make provisions for their 
family in the event of either of their deaths and to protect the mortgage. Im satisfied 
the term policies recommended met these objectives because they provided cover 
for the duration of their mortgage and until planned retirement age. I note Mr and Mrs 
A didnt want to take out a specific mortgage policy as well because of the costs 
involved.
I also note the policies were affordable and fell within Mr and Mrs As budget. They 
were willing to set aside £42.58 to meet their objectives and the advisor confirmed 
they could each get cover for £85,000 over the 20-year period. The adviser also 
recommended other protection policies which provided a greater level of cover, but 
they were not taken out because of the cost. 
As the policies were affordable and in line with Mr and Mrs As objectives, Im 
satisfied the recommendation was suitable. Policies which provide cover for the 
duration of a persons lifetime can be more costly, and the evidence doesnt satisfy 
me the advisor should have recommended this at the time because there didnt seem 
to be a requirement. 
I have also reviewed the personal summary and recommendation letter signed by Mr 
and Mrs A on 13 December 2002. Im satisfied the reasons for the recommendation 
and the circumstances behind it were clearly set out. The advisor explained the 
policies were for a term of 20 years and the policies were an affordable option. 
The policy documents also confirmed the policies aimed to pay a cash sum if Mr A or 
Mrs A died before the end of the term of the policies. Therefore, Im satisfied the 
information provided about the type of policies was clear.
 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A and they are facing 
some difficult personal circumstances. However, the evidence Ive seen satisfies me the 
recommendation was suitable and the information provided at the point of sale was clear. 
So, I cant say Lloyds have done anything wrong by recommending the policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman