The complaint
Ms L complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited ("APS") has failed to provide 
accurate information to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Ms L owed some money to APS. She settled the debt in September 2018 but when she later 
checked her credit report, it wasn't showing as settled. She queried this with the credit 
reference agency in December 2018 but the agency said it checked this with APS and was 
told the information was correct.
Ms L complained to APS. She received a final response from APS in September 2019 which 
accepted it hadn't provided correct information and said this would be put right. But when Ms 
L checked her credit report again she said it still wasn't correct, so she complained to this 
service. Our investigator said that, despite requests, he hadn't received any information from 
APS but, based on the information he had seen, he thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He asked APS to correct the information reported to the credit reference agencies and to 
pay Ms L £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Ms L accepted the investigator's recommendations but said she was concerned 
APS wouldn't do as asked. APS said it had provided information relating to the complaint 
and asked that this be reviewed.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
APS says it did provide information about the account to us. I've seen an email sent to our 
service but, for whatever reason, the information APS referred to wasn't received. Our 
investigator requested this several times and suggested APS send it by post as an 
alternative. In any event, I think we have enough information to consider the complaint.
It's important that the information provided to credit reference agencies is accurate. Where 
it isn't, I'd expect a business to put this right. APS accepted in its final response that the debt 
was cleared in September 2018 and information provided to the credit agencies wasn't 
accurate. So that's not disputed. It apologised to Ms L for this and said it would put things 
right. The issue here is whether APS has done that.
DRN-1380086Ms L has provided details from different credit reference agencies. These show the debt as 
settled on different dates.  For example, there is one showing the date satisfied as 13 
December 2018 but others give dates in August and September 2019.
Looking at these reports, I'm satisfied there are inaccuracies.  Ms L originally raised the 
issue in December 2018. Despite raising it more than once and being told things would be 
put right, that didn't happen. APS hasnt done what it said it would do in the final response 
letter. She was put to a lot of trouble trying to sort things out. She's also explained how much 
distress it caused her. For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that  
APS should ensure the information provided to the credit reference agencies is accurate, 
and that it should compensate Ms L for the trouble and upset it has caused her by failing to 
do what it promised.
Putting things right
To put things right, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited needs to
contact each of the credit reference agencies that it has provided information to and
provide accurate information to state the when the account was settled; and
pay compensation of £200 to Ms L to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman