DRN-3314918
The complaint
Mr C complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to give him a loan to fund the purchase of a fixed term
revolving agreement for timeshare weeks (the product) without checking if he could afford
to pay back what he owed and BPF was wrong to decline claims he made arising out of the
transaction.
The product agreement is in the joint names of Mr C and his partner but the loan agreement
is in Mr Cs sole name. This means Mr C is the complainant who is eligible to bring a
complaint to our service so Ive referred to him alone in this decision. 
Mr C is represented by a firm of solicitors but I will refer (generally) to everything thats been
said on his behalf as if Mr C said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr C purchased the product in June 2008 with a loan from BPF. It cost just under £12,000
and Mr C agreed to pay back over £18,000 (including interest) at about £150 a month for
120 months. Mr C says misrepresentations were made, he was treated unfairly during the
sale process and no affordability checks were done. He wants BPF to give him a refund of
the total cost.
BPF thinks it is too late, under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), for Mr C to bring claims under
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). BPF also considers Mr C is
out of time to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under our rules.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She was satisfied that we can consider Mr
Cs complaint because (in summary):-
Mr C complains that BPF failed to fulfil its obligations because he hasnt had
satisfactory compensation for his claims;
our rules say we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than six
years after the event complained of or (if later) three years from the date on which
the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he
had cause for complaint - unless the failure to comply with the time limits was as a
result of exceptional circumstances;
when assessing and declining a claim under the CCA, BPF is exercising its rights
and duties under a regulated credit agreement and the event complained of here is
BPFs decision in December 2018 to decline Mr Cs claim about the product sale,
Mr C brought his complaint to us a few weeks later - within the six year time limit set
out in our rules - and we can look into it.
The investigator went on to consider the merits and said:-
under section 75 BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so, if the time
for bringing a claim against the supplier has expired under the LA, this would be the
same for any like claim against BPF - which is something BPF could reasonably
take into account;
Mr C raises allegations of misrepresentation, he has six years under the LA to bring
his claim and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and contract;
misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has
suffered damage and any damage would have occurred here when Mr C
experienced a financial loss as a result of purchasing the product (in that, Mr C says
the purchase caused financial loss due to the suppliers misrepresentations and he
wouldnt have bought the product except for those misrepresentations);
this means the point of loss for Mr C was when he entered into the transaction to buy
the product in June 2008 (and accepted the cost and any potential benefit) so Mr C
needed to raise his section 75 claim no later than June 2014 but he didnt complain
to BPF until November 2018;
Mr C may not have known that he could raise concerns about misrepresentation
before that but the relevant time limit starts to run from the date of loss, which may
fall earlier than the date he realised that something might have gone wrong;
under section 140A of the CCA a court may make an order under section 140B if it is
determined that the relationship between the creditor and debtor arising out of the
agreement is unfair to the debtor - only a court has the power to decide this but
section 140A is relevant law that we need to take into consideration;
the LA applies to a section 140A claim, Mr C had six years to bring such a claim and
he would have needed to do so no later than October 2017 but he didnt complaint to
BPF until more than a year later meaning this claim is more than likely time barred;
Mr C hasnt provided enough evidence to reasonably conclude that it was
irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan and the borrowing was unaffordable for him.
The investigator thought Mr Cs claims have more than likely exceeded the relevant time
limits. And, although this for the courts to decide, its not unreasonable for BPF to take this
into account. She wasnt persuaded that BPFs decision to decline Mr Cs claims was unfair
or unreasonable in the circumstances and she didnt recommend the complaint should be
upheld.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. His representatives have
made fairly detailed submissions which Ive read carefully. I have summarised these below
for ease of reference:-
no affordability checks were undertaken and the lending was irresponsible and
unaffordable;
high pressure sales tactics were used  amongst other things, Mr C attended a sales
event which lasted six hours, he wasnt allowed to leave and had to sign complex
contractual documentation without the chance to review it properly;
Mr C was told that the product was an investment, which it wasnt, and a further
aggravating factor is the supplier brokered the loan when it wasnt authorised to do
so by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - in breach of Section 19 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FMSA);
commission paid by BPF was never disclosed giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor
relationship under section 140A of the CCA;
misrepresentations, that were false (and known to be false) were made with the
intention of inducing Mr C to enter these agreements, he relied on what was said and
experienced loss as a result, he could not have known that the misrepresentations
were fraudulent - and what remedy was available - until he instructed his
representatives;
the primary limitation period hasnt expired but, even if it had, Mr C relies on section
32 of the LA (specifically section 32(l)(b)) to extend the limitation period.Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as those of the investigator however and I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 January 2022 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions and 
make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out 
what I decided provisionally  and why  below, and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not minded to
require BPF to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence
and the wider circumstances.
I want to assure Mr C, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But,
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a
fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF
says it doesnt, because Mr C is complaining about events that took place in 2008 and it was
more than six years before he brought his complaint to us.
The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook.
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr C is
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to fulfil
its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 and 140A
arising out of his purchase of the product.
Jurisdiction and Mr Cs section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity.
I find the event (as referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mr C is complaining here
about is BPFs rejection of the claim that he made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is
when BPF declined his complaint in December 2018. Mr C brought this complaint to our
service not long after that and Im satisfied hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of
Mr Cs complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it.Jurisdiction and section 140A
Mr C also considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier here resulted in an unfair
relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A of the
CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within our
jurisdiction.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of (for the
purposes of section 140A) took place at the point of sale in June 2008. I cant reasonably
conclude that this part of Mr Cs complaint was brought to us within the six-year period set
out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So, Ive gone on to consider the
second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr C knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he
had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).
Mr Cs representatives say he first became aware that he had cause for complaint in 2018
when he sought professional advice. From the evidence Ive got, taking into account the acts
and omissions that Mr C has complained about, I think he should reasonably have known
that something might have gone wrong as a result of the suppliers acts and/or omissions
before that. But I accept this is not the same as Mr C knowing that he had cause for
complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mr C may have known that something might have gone
wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to assume that he would have realised
that this might have made the relationship between him and BPF unfair  or that he had
grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr C would have needed to know there was a problem that
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that
Mr C knew (or ought to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF before
2018. Im satisfied he brought his complaint to us within three years of that and I find this
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction.
Merits of the complaint
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Cs complaint. Mr C
brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA and Im
considering whether BPF has provided a fair and reasonable response to those claims in
this decision.
Our investigator says any right that Mr C had to bring these claims against BPF is probably
out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I think its something that BPF could
reasonably take into account when it decided to decline Mr Cs claims. I should make it clear
however that I am not deciding here if any right that Mr C may have to bring these claims
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the supplier. In this complaint, Mr C claims that misrepresentations were made and I think
sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant.
Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of action accrued here
will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged under section 75became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered.
Im satisfied any relevant damage was incurred when Mr C purchased the product and took
out the finance - in June 2008. Amongst other things, this was when he paid for the benefits
which he says were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mr C would have needed to
bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date he entered into the transaction
to purchase the product. Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since that date
before Mr C contacted BPF - in November 2018. It looks as if the period within which he had
to bring an action under section 75 had run out by that point and I cant reasonably find it
was wrong of BPF to decline Mr Cs section 75 claim.
I note that BPF says the relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier (d-c-s)
required under section 75 isnt present here. As Im not minded to uphold this complaint for
other reasons, I havent considered whether the necessary d-c-s relationship is present.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising out of
the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable is six years from the date the debtor-creditor
relationship ended. Mr C says (in a statement Ive seen) that he paid off his loan in 2013 -
but Im not persuaded thats right. I think it looks as if the loan Mr C complains about here -
ending in 474 - was paid off in October 2011. Ive seen a statement of account that shows
the balance on the account ending 474 was settled in October 2011. Customer contact notes
that BPF supplied (which seem to be reasonably detailed and contemporaneous) record that
Mr C asked for a settlement amount and then a requested a paid in full letter around the
same time. And I have also seen a letter that BPF sent Mr C on 26 October 2011 confirming
that his account had been settled in full.
I can see that Mr C had another loan from BPF (account ending 083) which may explain the
confusion. But Im satisfied, on balance, that he repaid the loan BPF provided to purchase
the product in October 2011. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr C borrowed any further on
the account ending in 474 after that. So, I think he would have needed to bring any claim
under section 140A no later than October 2017. Im satisfied that this claim wasnt raised 
with BPF until over a year later  in November 2018. Thats more than six years after the 
date time started running. I think any right Mr C had to bring a claim under section 140A had 
likely expired by that stage. And Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline 
this claim.
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr C may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some thought
to his representatives reference to section 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of
time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found (or could with
reasonable diligence have been discovered). I cant see that specific allegations of this sort 
were put to BPF previously. But, even if I were to accept that section 32 applied, I think Mr C 
probably had enough information to start the clock running in the particular circumstances 
not long after he purchased the product.
I say this because it looks as if Mr C used the product fairly soon after purchase. In his
statement he says he noticed that standards of accommodation, for example, werent whathe was led to expect. On balance, I find the evidence suggests that Mr C was probably
aware then that benefits he says he was told at the outset would be provided might have
been misrepresented early on. I think its more likely than not he would also have realised he
wasnt receiving the services he expected at that stage. I consider this would have been
sufficient to enable Mr C to bring his claims and Im not persuaded its unreasonable to
expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits.
Ive also considered (in this context) the submissions from Mr Cs representatives about the
payment of commission. They say any commission paid by BPF to the supplier for arranging
the loan should have been disclosed and this gives rise to an unfair relationship under
section 140.
BPF told us it has no record of how much  if any  commission was paid. But, my
understanding of the levels of commission that were normally paid in this sort of situation (at
the relevant time) is that this wasnt high enough to mean that BPF should have realised not
telling Mr C risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair (under section 140A). If, and
its by no means certain, any commission was paid, I think its unlikely to have exceeded
10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. Im not
persuaded that BPF was obliged to disclose it. And I dont think the supplier was under a
duty to disclose it either. I cant see that the supplier was acting as agent for Mr C. I dont
think it owed him a fiduciary duty and Im satisfied it wasnt obliged to provide an impartial or
dis-interested recommendation, in these particular circumstances.
It follows Im not persuaded that section 32 assists Mr C here. However, even if Mr C was
able to rely on section 32, Im satisfied if any commission was paid it probably wasnt more
than 10%. And I think its unlikely a court would conclude that this created an unfair 
debtor/creditor relationship, in any event.
Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened, when Mr C
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant
documentation) I think there was an obligation to give Mr C sufficient appropriate and timely
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan.
But, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose - or advice was provided - that could give rise to
a claim to which this section could apply.
Section 19 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Mr Cs representatives say the supplier here didnt have appropriate authorisation to arrange
this finance - in breach of the above. I cant see that this issue was ever raised with BPF so
Im conscious that BPF hasnt had a chance to consider and respond. But Im satisfied, in
any event, that the supplier did hold the appropriate registration at the relevant time and I
cant reasonably uphold Mr Cs complaint on those grounds.
Unaffordable lending
Mr C says proper credit checks were not carried out and it was irresponsible of BPF to
provide this loan. Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to reasonably
conclude that the lending was unaffordable for Mr C. And I cant see that Mr C has provided
much by way of further evidence about this after the investigator sent her view. But, even if I
were to accept that BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, I would need
to be satisfied that the lending was actually unaffordable for Mr C (and he lost out as a
result) in order to uphold this part of his complaint.In considering this, I can only take into account the standards that applied at the relevant
time. I havent got much information about Mr Cs circumstances then. From the evidence I
have seen, Im not persuaded there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to conclude
that the loan was unaffordable for Mr C. And Im unable to uphold this aspect of his
complaint.
Conclusions
As the investigator explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr C
may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see
from the information available, any relevant claim has most likely exceeded the time limits
set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account and (for the reasons set
out) Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold Mr Cs
complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr C unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant
properly require BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments and information by 4 February 2022 (which was subsequently extended to 10 
February 2022). I said Id consider all the evidence available after that and make my final 
decision.
The time set for responses has now passed. Im satisfied that both parties have received my 
provisional decision. Neither party has provided any new information or raised any 
objections to my provisional findings. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions in the circumstances. For the reasons Ive set out above, I remain of 
the view that this service is able to consider Mr Cs complaint and, having done so, I am 
unable to uphold it.
My final decision
My decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider this complaint and, 
having done so, I do not uphold it. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman