DRN-4511804
The complaint
Mr D complains about information recorded on his credit file by Vanquis Bank Limited after 
he raised a dispute.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr D has a credit card with Vanquis. In November 2022 Mr D raised a dispute concerning a 
payment for £15 that was taken from his credit card. Mr D explained the payment had been 
taken by an online fundraising website in error. When Mr D followed up with Vanquis in 
January 2023 it raised a payment dispute on his behalf. Vanquis says it went on to report a 
Query or Q marker on Mr Ds credit file.
The dispute was ultimately upheld in Mr Ds favour and a refund was made. The Q marker 
was removed from Mr Ds credit file from February 2023.
Mr Ds told us that a short time later he noticed his credit score had dropped substantially so 
looked at his credit file. Mr D found the Q marker being recorded by Vanquis. On the website 
of the business Mr D used to access his credit file, he found guidance that advised lenders 
could draw a negative inference from a Q marker being recorded on a consumers credit file. 
Mr D complained to Vanquis and it issued a final response on 11 April 2023. Vanquis said it 
had correctly recorded the Q marker on Mr Ds credit file to reflect the dispute hed raised, in 
line with its normal approach. Vanquis added that it wasnt responsible for how a credit 
reference agency scored Mr Ds credit. Vanquis offered Mr D £50 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Vanquis had dealt with Mr D fairly and didnt ask it to take any further 
action. In response, Mr D said that Vanquis hadnt warned him that raising a dispute about a 
payment that was taken in error would be recorded on his credit file. Mr D added that he had 
supplied evidence to show the Q marker had led to a reduction in his credit score and didnt 
agree Vanquis offer of £50 was a fair way to resolve his complaint. As Mr D asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
The Steering Committee on Reciprocity (SCOR) is a cross industry forum made up of 
representatives from the credit industry, including the credit reference agencies. SCOR sets 
out guidance in its Principles of Reciprocity. SCOR confirms the main thrust of the Principles 
of Reciprocity is that data is shared only for the prevention of over-commitment, bad debt, 
fraud and money laundering and to support debt recovery, debtor tracing or to avoid 
irresponsible lending. Im not persuaded that the way Vanquis has reported information on 
Mr Ds credit file when he raised a dispute about a payment is in line SCOR guidelines. Im 
not persuaded that the use of a Q marker when Mr D disputed a payment was fair. 
I think Mr D makes a very reasonable point when he says that despite disputing the £15 
payment, he made his contractual monthly payment and managed the account in line with 
the credit agreement. I agree with Mr D that it was unfair for Vanquis to report information 
that impacted how his account was recorded on his credit file, even though it was being 
managed in line with the terms, solely on the basis he asked it to recover a payment that had 
been taken in error.
As set out above, SCORs guiding principles say information recorded should focus on the 
prevention of overcommitment, bed debt, fraud and money laundering or to help recover 
outstanding debts and avoid irresponsible lending. Im not persuaded that reporting a Q 
marker following Mr Ds payment dispute falls in line with any of those categories. I agree 
with Mr D, it was inappropriate for Vanquis to record the Q marker in the circumstances.
In July 2023, Mr D forwarded a print of the Vanquis entry on his credit file. It shows that 
despite the dispute being resolved, Vanquis continued to report January 2023s payment as 
Q in place of showing it had been made on time and in full. Even if I were persuaded it was 
appropriate for Vanquis to have recorded a Q marker (which I havent), I wouldnt expect it to 
leave that in place once the query or dispute was resolved. Im not persuaded it was fair or 
correct for Vanquis to leave the Q marker in place once the dispute was fully resolved and 
upheld in Mr Ds favour. I intend to tell Vanquis to cease reporting the Q marker on Mr Ds
credit file.
Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator and, based on the information Ive 
seen so far, intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint. In my view, the use of the Q marker was 
inappropriate in Mr Ds case and the information Ive seen indicates Vanquis has unfairly 
continued to record it over the long term. Whilst I havent seen any evidence that this issue 
led to a direct financial loss for Mr D, Im satisfied it has caused a reasonable level of 
distress and inconvenience thats been going on since January 2023. I also intend to tell 
Vanquis to pay Mr D a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In my view, 
£300 is a fairer reflection of the trouble and upset caused by Vanquis actions than the £50 it 
offered in the final response.
I invited both parties to respond with further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr D responded and confirmed he was willing to 
accept. 
Vanquis responded and said it remained of the opinion the Q marker has been correctly 
recorded in accordance with industry guidelines and standard practice. Vanquis also said Mr 
Ds credit score had only been impacted with one of the credit reference agencies. Vanquis 
added that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator, had recently 
announced proposals to introduce a common data reporting format. Vanquis went on to ask 
whether the Financial Ombudsman Service had contacted the credit reference agency to check why a Q marker was considered as adverse information and advised it didnt agree an 
increase in compensation to £300 was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I highlighted existing industry guidance that is published by the 
SCOR. The SCOR is made up of members of the credit industry including the main credit 
reference agencies. And the Principles of Reciprocity give specific examples of the sort of 
data the SCOR says should be shared by businesses on a consumers credit file and why. I 
note that Vanquis response to my provisional decision says its acted in line with industry 
guidelines. But Im not persuaded the way its employed the Q marker in Mr Ds case does 
that. 
Vanquis hasnt commented on why it feels its use of the Q marker to reflect a complaint Mr D 
made about a disputed payment of £15 he made to a merchant fits the guidance supplied by 
the SCOR. And I havent seen any new information that persuades me Vanquis acted fairly 
by recording a Q marker on Mr Ds credit file when he raised the dispute in question. 
Vanquis also talked about new proposals by the FCA to introduce common reporting 
standards. But, again, Vanquis hasnt specifically said how that impacts Mr Ds case. I 
remain of the view that it was inappropriate and unreasonable of Vanquis to record the Q 
marker on the basis of the payment dispute Mr D raised. 
We havent contacted the credit reference agency to query how the Q marker is reported. 
But Im not persuaded thats a step we need to take. As Ive already noted, I havent been 
persuaded that adding a Q marker to Mr Ds credit file on the basis he wanted to raise a 
dispute in relation to a specific payment while his contractual monthly payments were 
maintained was reasonable or in line with the industry guidelines Ive cited above. 
Ive considered everything Vanquis has said in response to the provisional decision. Having 
done so, I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached. I still think Mr Ds 
complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Vanquis Bank Limited to settle by 
removing the Q marker from his credit file and paying him a total of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman