DRN-3013732
The complaint
Mrs K complains about problems when opening a savings account with ICICI Bank UK Plc. 
Mrs K also complains that the online banking facility she uses to look at her accounts with 
ICICI isnt clear. 
What happened
Mrs K has told us that she experienced technical problems opening savings accounts online 
in November 2020 as ICICIs system wasnt working. When Mrs K called ICICI she was told 
it wasnt possible to complete the application that day. Mrs K says she tried online again the 
following day and then called ICICI which was able to complete the application on her behalf. 
Mrs K has told us she paid for the call. 
Mrs K has also explained that the information ICICI gives on its website about the fixed rates 
of its products is unclear. And Mrs K has also said that the online banking facility doesnt 
make it clear which account shes looking at. 
ICICI responded to Mrs Ks complaint and said it hadnt found any technical issues with its 
system that wouldve stopped her applications. ICICI also said it had opened three fixed rate 
savings accounts for Mrs K in November 2020 as requested. ICICI paid Mrs K £30 and 
apologised for the delay and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs K referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought ICICI had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs K 
asked to appeal and said she has had lots of problems opening accounts online with ICICI 
over the years. Mrs K also said she had spent time and money opening accounts with ICICI. 
As Mrs K asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K opened three fixed rate accounts with ICICI in November 2020 and has told us she 
experienced problems each time which meant they had to be opened over the phone. Ive 
seen Mrs Ks screenshots and dont doubt that she wasnt able to open the account online 
as shes told us. 
Mrs K has told us shes experienced problems going back before November 2020. But as 
those issues dont appear to have been raised with ICICI, theres little we can add at this 
point to identify whether it was an issue with the business systems or not. Ive focused on 
the November 2020 applications. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Mrs K has told us, I think ICICI has paid a fair settlement to resolve 
her complaint. I agree Mrs K had to make phone calls after her online applications didnt go 
through, but I havent been persuaded that was an unreasonably inconvenient step. Mrs K 
has told us staff were able to complete the applications on her behalf and the accounts were 
opened as requested. I agree there was some inconvenience caused to Mrs K but Im 
satisfied the £30 settlement ICICI has paid fairly reflects what happened and the impact on 
her. 
Mrs K has also complained that the information ICICI gives on is website about the interest 
rate on its savings accounts is unclear. As our investigator has said, we cant tell a business 
how its systems should operate. I looked on ICICIs website and was able to find interest 
rates for the products offered. I didnt find the information was hidden or unclear. 
ICICI says that for Mrs Ks open savings accounts she can find details of the interest rate it 
pays via its online system. I understand Mrs K is also concerned that ICICI doesnt use the 
full account number when it contacts her. But Im satisfied there is sufficient information 
provided by ICICI to identify Mrs Ks accounts and that providing a partial account number is 
reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K but as Im satisfied ICICI dealt with her complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman