DRN-2705576
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, sold his debt to a debt 
collection agency. He says phone calls from the debt collection agency have affected his 
mental health. He wants Barclaycard to take back possession of the debt or write it off; and 
he would like compensation for the distress caused.
What happened
In or around December 2011 Mr R told Barclaycard he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Barclaycard agreed Mr R could make token monthly payments of £1. This arrangement is 
still in place as Mr Rs circumstances have not changed. No interest or charges are being 
incurred on the account.
In August 2019, Barclaycard sold the debt to a debt collection agency who contacted Mr R 
for repayment of the debt. Mr R says this is against the Lending Code.
Barclaycard said it was confident that the debt collection agency was able to deal 
compassionately with Mr R taking into account his sensitive situation.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The Lending Code guidelines were clear that a debt should not be sold to a debt 
collection agency when theres evidence of a customers mental health problems that 
affect the customers ability to repay their debts.
He brought another complaint to our service about a different lender and that was settled 
in his favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable. I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain the 
reasons why.
Barclaycard says Mr R hasnt provided it with evidence of his mental health condition. When 
Barclaycard asked him about this, he sent it evidence about his wife, but nothing about 
himself. And I can see that Barclaycard tried to engage with Mr R further, but without 
success.
Barclaycard told us it will consider, with the debt collection agency, the outstanding debt if 
Mr R provides it with the evidence about his mental health condition that its previously 
requested. And that, bearing in mind Mr Rs circumstances have not changed for a number 
of years, it will be open to considering a medical write off of the debt.
But, as things currently stand, Im satisfied that Barclaycard has recognised Mr Rs 
vulnerabilities and that it took these into consideration when it took the decision to sell the 
debt. I find it did enough to satisfy itself that the debt collection agency has policies and 
procedures in place to treat Mr R sensitively and sympathetically. 
Barclaycard hasnt seen evidence of Mr Rs mental health condition. So, overall, I dont think 
Barclaycard treated Mr R unfairly when it sold the debt.
In arriving at my decision, Ive taken into account what Mr R says about another complaint 
he brought to this service. But Ive considered the individual circumstances about this 
complaint, and the outcome of his other complaint does not change my conclusion here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman