DRN-2775691
The complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Ive used information from Lending Stream to create a brief loan table. There is a break in 
the lending after loan 3 and I address that in the main part of the decision. 
Loan Approved Amount Combined repayment 
sums (rounded)Repaid date
1 30 August 2016 £500 £228 27 October 2016
2 8 December 
2016£400 £186 8 August 2017
3 3 January 2017 £480 £368 8 August 2017
Break in lending
4 22 February 
2018£270 £123 9 March 2018
5 11 July 2018 £600 £269 21 November 2018
Mr M did ask Lending Stream to repay Loans 2 and 3 with reduced sums for a time. These 
were requested after he had been approved for loan 3. Mr M repaid the loans earlier than 
the repayment plan schedule. 
One of our adjudicators gave two opinions on the complaint, both of which were that he 
thought Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks before lending and so it did 
not need to do anything to put things right for Mr M. He did not agree, the complaint 
remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
 
Loan 1 was when Mr M was a new customer to Lending Stream and it was proportionate for 
it to rely on Mr Ms declared financial figures. It was for a relatively modest sum and for a six 
month term. I do not think that Lending Stream needed to do more.
 
Mr M applied for Loan 2 several weeks after repaying loan1 and it was for a smaller sum. It 
was proportionate for Lending Stream to rely on Mr Ms declared financial figures. It was for 
a relatively modest sum and for a six month period. I do not think that Lending Stream 
needed to do more.
Loan 3 was the third in the loan chain and I do think that additional checks ought to have 
been carried out. I say that because this was the third in a relatively short time and the 
combined repayments were going to be about £368 a month. So, I think Lending Stream 
ought to have checked about his other short term or high-cost credit situation. I can see that 
it did carry out a credit search and nothing particularly untoward appears there.
 
Having looked at Mr Ms bank statements for the month before loan 3 (December 2016) they 
do not show enough for me to conclude  had Lending Stream carried out additional checks 
- that what it would have discovered would have led it to think it ought not to lend. I say this 
because the statements show an income of £1,800, and the regular expenditure for things 
like food, bills and other non-high-cost credit repayments were minimal. I can see that he 
had a guarantor loan with a well-known company as the repayments show on the 
statements. But the information lending Stream had, plus the additional information it would 
have found out had it carried out those additional checks, still do not lead me to conclude it 
ought not to have approved loan 3. Still I think it would have reached the conclusion that 
Mr M was able to afford loan 3. There was a significant gap in the lending relationship after loans 2 and 3 were repaid in 
August 2017. And so, I do think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to approach Mr Ms 
application for loan 4 as if he was a new customer. 
Mr M reapplied for a smaller loan for £270, loan 4, seven months later. He repaid this in 
weeks rather than six months as originally scheduled. Then there was a four month gap in 
lending before he applied for loan 5. And so, the combination of having repaid loan 4 early, 
and having applied for more credit four months later, leads me to think that Lending Stream 
would not have had cause for concern or thought it needed to carry out more checks. 
So, the proportionate checks I would have expected to have been carried out for both loans 
4 and 5 would have been reliance on Mr Ms declared income and outgoings. I would not 
have expected Lending Stream to have done more. 
So, for these reasons I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman