DRN-4382497
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts without notice.
What happened
Miss W  who lives abroad, held a current and savings account with Barclays. While the 
current account was held in joint names with her sister, the savings account was in her sole 
name. Both accounts held significant balances. And the current account was mainly used for 
receipt of Miss Ws pension payments from the UK. 
In December 2021 Barclays decided to close Miss Ws accounts. The accounts were closed 
in February 2022. Miss W says that she wasnt aware of Barclays intentions until                  
March 2022. She called Barclays to find out what had happened to her account balances. 
But the call didnt result in Miss W being able to access her money.   
Miss W complained to Barclays in April 2022. But by 6 June 2022, Barclays had not been 
able to respond in full to her complaint, so it issued a letter providing referral rights to this 
service. A full response was issued on 20 July 2022. 
Barclays said it wrote to Miss W in December 2021 to give her 62 days notice of its intention 
to close her accounts. And this gave her sufficient time to transfer her money elsewhere and 
make new arrangements for her pension payments. It acknowledged the length of time it had 
taken to respond to Miss Ws complaint, and it offered her £100 compensation.
 
But, by this time, Miss W had travelled to the UK and her account balances had been 
released to her on 14 July 2022. Miss W referred her complaint to this service. She said that 
as she hadnt been notified of the account closure in time, she travelled to the UK to access 
her money and that shed had problems with her pension payments. She thought Barclays 
should compensate her for the cost of her flights and the distress and inconvenience. 
Barclays has since accepted that the account closure notice it intended to send Miss W 
wasnt generated by its system. Our investigator initially recommended that Barclays pay 
Miss W £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays agreed to 
this, but Miss W didnt. And she supplied evidence of the costs incurred in having to travel to 
the UK to resolve the matter.  
On receipt of the evidence, the investigator recommended that Barclays should pay £3,000 
to put things right for Miss W. Barclays didnt agree. It said Miss W didnt need to travel to 
the UK to resolve the problem. Our investigator listened to recordings of the calls Miss W 
had with Barclays. Having done so, she noted that Barclays had told Miss W that she would 
need to obtain the balance of the account in her sole name herself. And that she didnt think 
Barclays had explained to Miss W what alternatives were available for her to access her 
money. And she maintained that she thought Barclays should pay Miss W £3,000.
Barclays didnt agree, it accepted that it could have been more forthcoming with information 
on alternatives for Miss W to access her money but maintained that Miss W hadnt been told 
she needed to travel to the UK. Barclays also questioned whether accessing her money was 
the sole reason for Miss Ws visit to the UK. It said that prior to the pandemic Miss W had 
visited the UK regularly.  
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Miss W hasnt complained about Barclays decision to close her accounts  so I make no 
findings on this. Rather her complaint is that the accounts were closed before shed received 
the notification from Barclays and the consequences of that.
Its no longer in dispute that Barclays failed to issue the notice of closure letter to Miss W 
and, as a result, Miss W was caused distress and inconvenience. What is in dispute is 
whether Miss W needed to travel to the UK to access her funds resulting in the travel 
expenses she incurred. Ive thought about this carefully.
Ive listened to the call recordings Barclays has provided and, like the investigator, Ive found 
Miss W was told that as one account was held in joint names, her sister who lived in the UK 
would be able to obtain the funds from that account. But Im satisfied Miss W was also told 
she would need to obtain the funds in her sole account herself. And while Miss W wasnt 
directly told she would need to return to the UK, when she expressed concerns about the 
possibility of having to do so, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt offer any alternative solutions 
to enable Miss W to access her money. So, Im persuaded it wasnt unreasonable for       
Miss W to think that returning to the UK was her only option.     
 
I acknowledge Barclays comments that prior to the pandemic Miss W was a regular visitor 
to the UK. And I can see it has questioned whether the sole reason for Miss Ws visit to the 
UK was to withdraw her account balances. And I note that Miss W did say in one of the calls 
that pre the pandemic she had visited the UK regularly. But Im satisfied that Miss W also 
made it clear that she hadnt returned to the UK since the pandemic and that she had 
concerns about doing so. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Miss W had planned to travel to the UK 
in 2022. The evidence Miss W has provided about her travel arrangements suggest her trip 
was booked not long after Barclays letter dated 6 June 2022. So, Im persuaded that          
Miss Ws decision to travel to the UK was made because of her concerns about obtaining 
the money in her accounts. So, I think its fair that Barclays cover the travel costs Miss W 
has incurred and the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Miss W has provided evidence showing the flight costs were £2,300. She has also provided 
evidence of the problems she has encountered with her pension providers in obtaining the 
payments that were made to the account after it was closed. I have no reason to dispute 
what Miss W has provided, so I find that a compensation payment of £3,000 fairly 
recognises Miss Ws financial loss and the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss W £3,000 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman