DRN-2718900
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) cancelled their buildings 
insurance without telling them. 
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr M throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr M contacted Ageas to make a claim on his buildings insurance, only to find that he no 
longer had a policy. He complained to Ageas because it hadnt told him and he was unhappy 
that he wouldnt have been covered in the event of a major claim.
Ageas said it wrote to Mr M before the end of the policy year to explain that it wouldnt be 
renewing the policy, although Mr M says he didnt receive the letter. Mr M went on to 
complain that he must now tell other insurers that hes had a policy cancelled and it affects 
the premiums.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She explained that Ageas provided 
evidence of the letter it sent to Mr M telling him that it wasnt renewing the policy, and our 
investigator said that Mr M didnt need to tell other insurers hed had a policy cancelled 
because that wasnt the case. 
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for reconsideration of his complaint. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Mr M says Ageas didnt tell him it had cancelled his policy. Ive looked at the records Ageas 
provided which show that it wrote to Mr M a month before his policy was due to end. It 
explained that it was no longer providing that particular policy and Mr M would need to take 
out cover under a different policy with Ageas or with another insurer once his existing policy 
ended. Having considered this letter, its clear to me that Ageas simply didnt renew Mr Ms 
policy. This isnt the same as cancelling, so Mr M wouldnt need to declare that hed had a 
policy cancelled.
I understand Mr M didnt receive the letter. However, Im satisfied that Ageas has reasonably 
demonstrated that it sent the letter, so I cant hold it responsible for any delivery failure. That 
said, Mr M hadnt renewed his policy, received new policy documents or paid a premium so I 
think he ought to have known that he no longer had buildings insurance at the end of the 
policy term.
Mr M was concerned that if hed experienced a major loss, such that he needed his house 
rebuilding, he wouldnt have been covered. I understand that hes concerned about what 
mightve happened, but as there wasnt a loss of that type, and Ageas wasnt at fault for Mr 
M not having cover, theres nothing to put right here.
In summary, Ageas told Mr M it was not renewing his policy at the end of the term because it 
had withdrawn the product. Whether or not Mr M received the letter, Im satisfied that Ageas 
sent it and that Mr M had a greater responsibility to ensure he took out new cover when his 
existing policy ended. I havent identified anything to suggest that Ageas did anything wrong, 
so I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman