DRN-2657740
The complaint
Mr H complains about Santander UK Plcs service following his decision to set up a direct 
debit. He says the process wasnt made clear and they would only provide a call recording 
on CD. Mr H wants an apology and a transcript of the telephone call.  
  
What happened
Mr H set up a direct debit instruction online in September 2020 for payments for his 
Santander credit card to be taken. The payment wasnt made by direct debit in October so 
Mr H used another method to pay this. As the payment was made late, Mr H incurred an 
interest charge. Mr H queried this with Santander and they explained the process in relation 
to the direct debit. Mr H asked for a copy of the recording of this call and Santander said 
they could only provide it as a CD.  
Mr H complained and Santander responded and said when Mr H set up the direct debit 
online he wouldve been informed to check his credit card statement as it would set out the 
date the direct debit will come in to effect. They said they had refunded the interest charge 
as a gesture of goodwill. They said they could only provide a recording of the call in a CD 
format. They didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought Santander hadnt acted 
unreasonably in relation to the direct debit complaint. During the investigation, Santander 
accepted there had been an error in relation to Mr Hs request for a copy of the call recording 
and offered £50. Our investigator upheld this part of the complaint and thought the offer was 
reasonable. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Direct Debit instruction
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs Santander account do allow him to set up direct debit as 
a payment method. That is what Mr H has done but unfortunately the first payment after he 
sets up the direct debit instruction hasnt been taken by this method. Santander say the 
monthly statements sent to Mr H set out whether a direct debit has been set up. Ive looked 
at the statements which are sent to Mr H around this time. The September statement doesnt 
make any reference to a direct debit being set up. Thats understandable because Mr H says 
he set up the direct debit instruction at the end of September. And, given this statement is 
dated 18 September, its likely the instruction hadnt yet been set up. 
The statement says the payment date is 14 October. The October statement does make 
reference to a direct debit being set up and the payment date being 15 November. The 
November statement also refers to direct debit as being the method by which payment will 
be taken. So, I agree that the October and November statements do make it clear that a 
direct debit has been set up and is being used as the payment method.  
However, that said, Im not persuaded by the statements when looking at the facts in this 
particular case. The October and November statements which refer to the direct debit 
instruction are sent after the date Mr H thinks his first direct debit payment will be taken. The 
September statement refers to the next payment being due on 14 October. The direct debit 
instruction is set up at the end of September and following this Mr H is under the impression 
that the payment due on 14 October will be taken by direct debit. The next statement is then 
sent on 20 October and then another statement on 19 November  the important point being 
that both are after 14 October. So, Ive looked at what information was available to Mr H 
prior to 14 October. 
Santander refer to a letter sent to Mr H in October which confirms a direct debit has been set 
up and says Please make sure you pay by another payment method until confirmation that 
your Direct Debit has been set up appears on your statement. During a phone call with 
Santander, Mr H refers to receiving this letter on 2 October. The copy we have is dated 29 
October but I believe its the same letter Mr H receives on 2 October as the call handler 
reads out sections from the letter which are exactly identical to sections in the 29 October 
letter. And, this does make it clear that Mr H should make sure he pays using an alternative 
method until he can see from his credit card statement that the direct debit has been set up.  
 
Santander have also provided us with screenshots of the online direct debit set up journey. 
At the end of the process it confirms a direct debit has been set up together with a statement 
which says Confirmation: Direct Debit set up/amend complete. Please note your Direct 
Debit will not take effect until the date is confirmed on your Credit Card statement. The next 
credit card statement Mr H receives is dated 20 October, which although does confirm a 
direct debit has been set up to take Novembers payment, is after the payment due date for 
October. So, taking into account the October letter and the statement in the online set up 
journey  which is information available to Mr H prior to 14 October - I think it makes it clear 
that he should check his credit card statement for confirmation his direct debit has taken 
effect. And, while I understand Mr Hs next statement is 20 October, I think its reasonable to 
expect Mr H couldve checked the position with the direct debit with Santander before 14 
October. Had Mr H done so, I believe, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than 
not that they wouldve confirmed the October payment wont be taken by direct debit. So, 
given that Mr Hs direct debit wasnt yet in place as an effective payment method for 
Santander, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to not take payment by this method. 
I can see Mr H says he doesnt recall seeing the statement on the website about the direct 
debit not taking effect until it shows on his credit card statement. In view of this, Ive 
considered this on the balance of probabilities, and I think its more likely than not that this 
statement did appear when Mr H set up the direct debit. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, 
Santander have sent us screenshots with a walkthrough of the process from start to finish 
and I can see the statement does appear. Secondly, Ive listened to the call Mr H makes to 
Santander after he discovers his October payment hasnt been taken by direct debit. During 
the call the call handler refers to the statement which appears during the online set up 
process. Mr H asks where it says this and while on the phone he goes through the online set 
up process. And, he reads out the following which appears, Please note your Direct Debit 
will not take effect until the date is confirmed on your Credit Card statement. So, I think this 
statement did appear when Mr H set up the direct debit instruction in September.  
I note Mr H is concerned about a late payment marker which has been applied to his credit 
file. Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about a 
customers account to Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). Guidelines issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to date. Ive also looked at the terms and conditions for Mr 
Hs account and this says Santander will file information about how Mr H manages his 
account with CRAs. The information shows Mr H did make a late payment, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Santander to record this information with the CRAs. I can see that Mr 
H is concerned that his credit file shows a status of a missed payment rather than a late 
payment. I agree with Mr Hs point that the information shows hes made a payment for 
October, but it was late. And, from the credit file information which Mr H and Santander have 
provided there is a payment status for October showing as 1. This generally indicates a late 
payment, so I think Santander have recorded correct information with the CRAs. I do 
understand Mr Hs frustrations about how this situation has arisen. So, if he is concerned 
about the late payment marker and how this might be viewed, he can file a Notice of 
Correction on his credit file with an explanation for whats happened.     
Request for copy of phone call 
I understand Santander have sent the call recording to Mr H on a USB stick. They say the 
internal process hadnt been updated on their system which is why they originally told Mr H 
they could only send it by CD. I can see Santander have offered £50 as a way of apologising 
to Mr H and also to reflect the frustration caused to him. Its clear from information Ive seen, 
Mr H was frustrated when Santander tell him they can only send the call recording by CD. 
And, I think Santanders offer of £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I can see Mr H has raised further points which relate to how Santander have handled his 
request for information and I understand our investigator has discussed with Mr H that these 
complaints need to be made to Santander in the first instance. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Santander havent acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Hs request 
for the phone call. Santander should pay compensation of £50 for the frustration caused to 
Mr H.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Santander UK Plc must pay 
compensation to Mr H in the sum of £50 for the frustration caused. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman