DRN-4160553
The complaint
M complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled its 
claim on its landlords insurance policy.
Mr T is a director of M and brings the complaint on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Mr T 
throughout the decision. 
What happened
M had a landlords insurance policy for a property it owns and rents out. In November 2021 
Mr T made a claim on the policy after a car collided with the property causing damage.
LV accepted the claim and over the months that followed, it arranged repairs. However when 
its contractors arrived at the property they found that work couldnt go ahead until the gas 
and electricity were disconnected. Mr T arranged for this to happen and in April 2022 work 
began to repair the property.
As there was no heating and hot water during this time, LV agreed that Mr Ts tenants could 
move into a nearby hotel while the work was completed and it would cover the cost. Mr T 
booked this however LV only reimbursed part of the cost, as it said Mr T had booked more 
nights than were required. 
Mr T made a complaint. He said hed spent a lot of time chasing LV to move the claim 
forward and it had been unhelpful when he had. And he said it should cover the whole cost 
of the alternative accommodation as it had agreed to previously.
LV offered £350 compensation to make up for the delays and poor service, however didnt 
offer anything further towards the alternative accommodation. Unhappy with this Mr T bought 
the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think LV had done enough, she recommended it reimburse Mr T the 
full amount for the alternative accommodation as it covered the time the property was 
without heating and hot water. As Mr T had paid for the hotel at the time, she thought it 
should also pay 8% interest on any amount reimbursed from the date he paid for it until the 
date of reimbursement, to make up for the time he was without the funds. 
LV didnt agree. It said it had suggested a cheaper hotel, but Mr T had booked something 
more expensive so it shouldnt have to pay the difference. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alternative accommodation
LV has confirmed that work was carried out on the property between 27 April and 9 May. 
During this time the property was without heating and hot water.
The policy states that cover is provided for alternative accommodation:
For the period your property is uninhabitable following loss or damage covered under this 
section
While LV initially argued that the property wasnt uninhabitable, it has since agreed to cover 
the costs of a hotel during the time the property was being repaired. And I agree this is fair 
and in line with the policy terms.
However its said that it is only prepared to offer £420 as this reflected the cost of a budget 
hotel it found for seven nights, which was available at around £60 per night.
Mr T has provided invoices to show that he paid a total of £996 for a stay from 27 April to 9 
May. These show that the cost of the hotel varied on different nights, with costs ranging from 
around £65 to £100. And while it isnt the same hotel LV suggested, it is of a similar 
standard. Based on the price LV originally quoted and the standard of the hotel, I dont 
consider these to be unreasonable costs. 
Further, in both the claim notes and by email LV has confirmed that the repair work was 
being carried out between these dates. So I dont consider this an unreasonable time period 
for Mr T to house his tenants in alterative accommodation. 
For this reason I agree with our investigators recommendation that LV reimburse Mr T for 
the full cost of the alternative accommodation. And, as he has been without the funds for 
some time, it should pay 8% simple interest on all amounts paid from the date Mr T originally 
paid for them until the date LV settles the claim.
Delays
Having looked at the correspondence provided by each side, I can see that LV has been 
slow to progress this claim. It took it a long time to arrange for contractors to attend the 
property to start repairs and this has meant Mr T has had to contact it repeatedly to ensure 
progress. I appreciate there have been further delays due to the involvement of a third party 
company who are responsible for turning off the gas and electricity, and this was a delay that 
was outside LVs control. However even without this, I think the claim should have 
progressed more quickly, and LV could have done more to limit the impact on Mr T and his 
tenants.
LV has offered £350 compensation to apologise for these delays and this is in line with what 
I would have recommended if it hadnt made an offer. Im therefore satisfied its done enough 
in this regard.
I note Mr Ts request for LV to reimburse interest paid on a loan that he took out to purchase 
the property outright. As he had intended to mortgage the property but couldnt do so until 
the damage was repaired. While I appreciate this would have been frustrating, its not a cost 
I can fairly hold LV responsible for. In part because it is difficult to know how much the exact 
loss would have been, as interest rates vary and there is no way to prove the exact date that 
this would have happened. But also, while LV are responsible for some of the delay to the 
claim, there were some parts that were out of its control. And there would have always been 
some delay to Mr T taking his intended action just due to the claim itself, rather than LVs 
involvement. So it wouldnt be fair to hold it accountable for this loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Reimburse M for the full amount paid for the alternative accommodation.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid from the date M paid for the 
accommodation until LV reimburse him.
Pay M the £350 compensation already offered if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, on behalf of 
M, to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman