DRN-1291465
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that TSB Bank plc hasn't been paying interest on her account, and won't 
refund the lost money now.
What happened
Mrs F told us that she opened an interest-paying current account in her sole name with TSB. 
At the same time, she opened another of the same type of interest paying current account 
jointly with her husband. She realised later that she wasnt being paid interest on the account 
that was in her sole name. She thought that was because she hadnt been logging into her 
account each month. 
Mrs F said that one of her work colleagues had complained about the same thing, and 
received a full refund of interest, but shed only been given some compensation. She wanted 
TSB to admit it had got this wrong, and pay the missing interest. 
TSB said that Mrs F complained about this at around the time that it was dealing with an 
extremely high number of complaints. She had to go into a branch to make her complaint, 
because it was so busy. And it wasnt able to respond for some months. So it paid her £50 
for expenses in going into a branch, and £100 for inconvenience. But it didnt think it had 
actually made a mistake about the account. 
TSB said Mrs F had then said to it that she had opened this account on the same day as a 
joint account with her husband. She thought that the branch manager had ticked the option 
for paperless statements, and hadnt given her any paperwork to take away. She said that 
she never got paper statements, and was never told she had to log into her account every 
month to get interest on it. She only registered for internet banking in August 2018, when 
she discovered interest wasnt being paid. 
TSB said Mrs F opened her account on 5 May 2015. It no longer had the paperwork for her 
sole account, but it could see on her joint account application that shed signed to say that 
shed received the paperwork, which explained that she would only get interest if she was 
registered for internet banking, and signed up for paperless statements and correspondence. 
TSB said that it had sent paper statements to Mrs F annually. It said that it couldnt comment 
on the comparison Mrs F had made with a work colleague. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said TSB had provided 
evidence to suggest that the terms of the account were explained to Mrs F when the account 
was opened. She wasnt being paid interest because she wasnt registered for internet 
banking and wasnt receiving paperless statements. TSB had shown us the terms for the 
joint account she opened at the same time, and it was the same type as Mrs Fs sole 
account, so our investigator thought she had been told about the conditions for getting inters. 
He said that the compensation that TSB had paid for the delay in responding to Mrs F was a 
fair way to resolve the complaint. Mrs F didnt agree. She said we hadnt taken into account the appalling treatment and 
nonchalant attitude of the bank. She said the terms and conditions of the account werent 
given to her or her husband when they opened their accounts. She thought shed been 
asked if they had access to online banking, and had said yes, as her husband had access 
and they had a joint account. She said that they werent told they would have to log into 
separately at any time during the interview. She thought this was a key point which shouldve 
been highlighted to them, and would feature on any literature. 
She repeated that her colleague had bene treated differently, and said that TSB hadnt lived 
up to the values it sets for itself. 
Our investigator replied to say that he realised she didnt think she had been told to register 
for online banking separately to her husband. But he thought that she shouldve realised her 
sole account wouldnt appear on his online banking screen. And the eligibility criteria for the 
joint account had been explained, so our investigator thought it was likely that the same 
criteria were explained for the sole account Mrs F opened. 
Mrs F wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F initially said she wasnt being paid interest on her account because she wasnt logging 
in to her account regularly. She said that TSB had refunded all the missing interest to her 
colleague who was in the same situation. 
For reasons of confidentiality, TSB cant tell us about the position of Mrs Fs colleague. I 
wouldnt expect it to do that. 
But TSB said that the reason Mrs F had given for not getting interest wasnt right. It said it 
wasnt paying interest because she wasnt meeting the criteria of being registered for online 
banking, and receiving paperless statements. It said its been sending her annual 
statements, and that Mrs F accepts she didnt register for online banking until some years 
after the account opened. 
Ive seen the criteria for paying interest on this account, and they do include being registered 
for internet banking, as well as getting paperless statements. I dont think Mrs F met those 
criteria. So I dont think TSB made a mistake by not paying interest. 
Mrs F says this wasnt explained to her when she opened the account. TSB hasnt been able 
to show that these criteria were explained for her sole account. But it has been able to show 
they were explained for her joint account. And Mrs F was aware that the accounts were the 
same. So I think its more likely than not that these criteria were explained to Mrs F for her 
sole account as well as her joint account when these accounts were opened in a branch. 
Mrs F remembered being asked if the couple had access to internet banking. She said that 
as joint account holders to more than one account this was not an issue. But Mrs F didnt 
have internet banking, and she was also opening an account in her sole name. If Mrs F 
thought that TSB was only asking if one of the couple had online banking access, then I 
dont think that would likely to be TSBs fault. As our investigator said, I think that Mrs F 
ought to have realised that her husband wouldnt be able to access her sole account. Ive considered this case carefully, and I dont think it is TSBs fault that Mrs F wasnt 
receiving interest on this account. So I dont think it has to pay Mrs F back that interest now. 
I know that TSB took a very long time to respond to Mrs Fs complaint, and then doesnt 
seem to have replied to her response to that. But it has paid £150 for the length of time it 
took to send its complaint response, and the inconvenience and expense she faced in 
recording her complaint. Like our investigator, I think that provides a fair outcome to this 
complaint. I know Mrs F will be disappointed, but I dont think TSB has to do more than this. 
And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman