DRN-2771142
The complaint
Mr S complains about a Bed and ISA transfer, undertaken on Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
(Barclays) Smart Investor platform.
What happened
Mr S wanted to sell shares from his general investment account and rebuy them within his 
ISA. As this was a connected transaction, Mr S maintains that Barclays should have 
contacted the market maker directly to explain this and to agree a dealing fee. As Barclays 
failed to do so, Mr S says he was exposed to a larger spread and has lost out. Mr S 
maintains that other brokers provide a direct execution service, where the fee is negotiated 
directly with the market maker and it is unfair for Barclays not to provide the same service. 
Mr S maintains that Barclays have not acted in his best interests.
Barclays say that Bed and ISA transfers are possible on the Smart Investor platform, with 
the transactions being carried out together to reduce market exposure. However, their 
process is automated, which means Barclays do not negotiate directly with market makers. 
A direct execution service is not offered. Shares are sold at the bid price and bought at the 
offer price, which means investors are likely to end up with fewer shares in their ISA. 
However, the Price Improver service is used to give the best price indication of the 
spreadcost, along with an indication of any PTM levy and stamp duty payable. This 
information is provided before selling and buying back takes place.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. Barclays had moved to an automated process which provided the fastest method to 
select the best price available, which was explained in Barclays Best Execution Policy. 
There was nothing to show that Barclays had acted outside their own terms and conditions 
on this occasion. Further, there was no regulatory requirement to offer a direct negotiation 
service with a market maker so as to reduce the spread for Bed and ISA transactions. Our 
investigator also explained that our service is unable to make a business change its terms 
and conditions.
Mr S disagrees with the view and has asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the principles referred to by both Mr S and our investigator. 
Mr S says he was forced to carry out the Bed and ISA transfer without Barclays professional 
support linking the sale and purchase. The crux of Mr Ss complaint is that he believes 
Barclays ought to use a direct execution service for Bed and ISA transactions.
I dont underestimate Mr Ss strength of feeling about this complaint, its clear that he is 
disappointed with the service offered by Barclays. I think its helpful at the outset if I explain 
our role. We have no disciplinary or regulatory function, which means we cant punish 
businesses or tell them how to operate. We offer an independent, informal dispute resolution 
service, where we assess each case on a fair and reasonable basis. Against that 
background, Ive looked to see whether Mr S was treated fairly on this occasion. 
Mr S points to other brokers having offered a different service, whereby they negotiated 
directly with market makers to reduce the spread. Its clear this is the service Mr S had 
hoped Barclays would provide. But in my view, the fact that Barclays did not provide Mr Ss 
preferred process, does not mean they failed to act in his best interests or that they did 
anything wrong. It is a matter of commercial judgment for each firm to decide which services 
they will provide and how they will operate them. There is no regulatory requirement for a 
direct execution service to be offered for these types of transactions. Barclays chose to 
move to an automated service, where the best available price from their providers was 
selected. It was clear from the terms and conditions that the Smart Investor platform offered 
an online execution-only dealing service, where investors chose which transactions to carry 
out. Mr S had the option of giving instructions online or by phone and would have been 
aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of the Price Improver service. Theres 
nothing to show that he was treated differently to any other customer. 
Ive looked to see if Barclays provided Mr S with clear information before he made a decision 
to proceed. Mr S hasnt disputed that Barclays provided the bid and offer spread before he 
went ahead with the transaction. In addition to the terms and conditions available to Mr S 
online, Ive also seen that he spoke to an adviser who explained that the process would be 
automated. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was in a position to make an informed decision about 
whether to proceed. Ive also noted that it was open to Mr S to transfer to another provider 
without charge, if he was unhappy with the Smart Investor platform.
Taking everything into account, I cant fairly say that Barclays have done anything wrong. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman