DRN-2624134
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about an error made by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
with respect to a pension plan she held with them. She has also complained about the 
service received when attempting to have the error corrected and the way in which Aviva 
has offered to put things right. 
Mrs P is represented in this matter by her brother, Mr B.
  
What happened
Mrs P started a personal pension plan with Aviva in April 1992. At the time, a single 
contribution was made and allocated to the Deposit fund. A year later she switched her 
investment to the Equity fund. 
On 29 March 2001 Mrs P made another single contribution of £6,751. Aviva invested this 
contribution in the Deposit fund. No further contributions were made after this point. But in 
July 2015, after being made aware that the Deposit fund was low risk and so the potential for 
growth was limited, Mrs P switched the contributions which were in the Deposit fund to the 
Equity fund. 
In November 2018, Mr B complained to Aviva on Mrs Ps behalf. He said in summary that 
[Mrs P] should have been advised to leave it [the Deposit fund] within (at most) a year of the 
investment and Aviva should certainly not have waited till 14 years later to alert her [that 
she was invested in the Deposit fund]. Mr B said that as a result, Mrs P may have suffered a 
loss of investment growth during the time shed been invested in the Deposit fund and was 
entitled to compensation.
Aviva investigated the complaint but didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. In its 
response to Mr B of 29 November 2018 Aviva explained that the March 2001 contribution 
was correctly invested in the Deposit fund in accordance with the proposal form that said 
the contributions would be invested in the same percentages to the same funds as existing 
contributions. It also said it didnt provide advice or consider the Deposit fund to be a 
temporary option. Aviva concluded that it had invested the additional contribution as per the 
proposal form, and subsequently kept the policyholder informed of the fund in which they 
were invested and how they were performing.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B contacted Aviva numerous times over the next four 
months, also engaging a journalist to assist him, in an attempt to resolve his sisters 
complaint.
In March 2019 Aviva conceded that a mistake had been made regarding the March 2001 
contribution  these funds should have been invested in the Equity fund. It offered to put the 
policy back in the actual position it should be and would be have been in but for the 
mistake. Included with this offer was an actuarial report detailing the number of units 
purchased their value both on the day of the investment and the day the redress was 
calculated. 
Aviva did not propose to add 8% interest to the award, explaining that as the policy in 
question is still an active policy, and the benefits have not been taken there is no 
requirement for us to add 8%. 
Aviva also apologised about the poor service it had provided both when the single 
contribution was invested incorrectly and when the complaint was made. It offered £500 as a 
way of saying sorry and in full settlement of the complaint. 
Mr B, on behalf of Mrs P, didnt accept this offer. He objected to the figures provided and 
accompanying calculations, the applicable time period for the calculation and the failure to 
add 8% interest to any award. He also didnt think £500 was sufficient to compensate him 
and Mrs P for Avivas numerous service failings and the impact these had on them.
On 17 May 2019, Mrs P transferred her policy to a new pension provider. The new provider 
confirmed the investments in the new policy were completed on 25 June 2019. Mr B 
confirmed that no fund switches have been made since the start of this plan. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied with Avivas proposed offer and brought Mrs Ps complaint to this 
service for review. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ps complaint. He concluded that as Aviva accepted 
that they made an error when investing the March 2001 single contribution, the only issue in 
dispute was the compensation required to put Mrs P as close as possible into the position 
she would be in now but for the error. He then set out the methodology he proposed Aviva 
use to calculate redress. In doing so, the investigator also considered the arguments put 
forward regarding the calculation period to be used, Avivas Equity value for 29 March 2001, 
and whether interest should be awarded. 
The investigator didnt agree with Mr B that the redress calculation period should be from 
29 March 2001 to 22 July 2015 (when Mrs Ps funds were all moved to the Equity 
investment) and then 8% interest added to this sum. He explained using the notional value 
of what the Equity fund would have been worth, but for Avivas mistake, on 25 June 2019, 
when Mrs Ps funds were transferred away, to the amount actually transferred on this date 
was the fairest method of redressing the 2001 error. He reasoned this period covers 
investment loss as well as consideration of how the single contribution investment would 
have performed if it had been invested as it should have been. 
And, the investigator didnt agree 8% interest was warranted as this is an award made to 
reflect that a consumer was deprived of the use of funds and in this case, Mrs Ps funds 
were always invested and not available for her to access. Instead, he said a fair way to 
calculate compensation for the period after Mrs P transferred was to look at how the 
investment loss which should have been transferred would have performed if it had been 
invested in the funds Mrs P transferred to, until the date the complaint is settled.  
The investigator also thought the £500 Aviva offered was fair and reasonable compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs P by Aviva. And he explained this service was only 
able to award compensation for losses sustained by Mrs P, as their customer. Since Mr B 
wasnt a customer but representing his sister in this matter, the investigator concluded we 
could not make an award for Mr Bs time, trouble and upset. 
Mr B did not agree with the investigators findings and provided a robust review explaining 
what he thought the investigator had got wrong. Although the investigator considered Mr Bs 
points, he wasnt minded to change his view. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision. Mr B has since provided substantial submissions on numerous occasions detailing at length 
his continued reasons for disagreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this. Where I reach a finding 
that a business hasnt acted as it should have done, I then go on to consider what the 
consumers position is likely to have been, had the business acted correctly.
And, although I take into account the legal position, Im not obliged to follow the law strictly. 
Often where theres been a breach of regulatory obligations a customer wont have been 
treated fairly. Thats logical, given that a main aim of regulation is to ensure fair consumer 
outcomes. But not every breach of regulations (or infringement of legal rights) will mean a 
customer hasnt been treated fairly. Conversely, a consumer may still have been treated 
unfairly, even if theres been no breach of the rules or the law.  
Given some of the concerns Mr Bs raised, it might also be helpful to say here that, unlike 
the courts, the nature of our process is informal. So, its not for us to test evidence in the 
same way a court might. But, in order to reach my decision, I have considered all of the 
evidence afresh. And, having done that, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, for essentially the same reasons.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should be asked 
or answered.
Mr B has provided substantial submissions in support of his sisters complaint, both in 
response to the investigators initial view and subsequently. I am grateful for the 
considerable detail provided. And, I have carefully reviewed all of these submissions in their 
entirety. However, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties have, and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every 
single point made by all the parties involved. The purpose of this decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it - I have carefully considered all of the submissions made in this 
complaint  but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. Mr B is concerned about our impartiality and feels that weve just taken Aviva at its word. Im 
sorry Mr B feels this way. Id like to reassure him that I have been impartial and have 
considered all submissions without bias. Im also aware that Mr B is unhappy that I have not 
contacted him directly. But in the vast majority of cases that this service deals with, there is 
no need for the ombudsman to contact the parties to hear their detailed arguments. The 
parties discuss the matters of concern with the investigator and an ombudsman can request 
further information if they think it is necessary for their final decision. Im satisfied both sides 
have been able to make their case fully. I have not been in touch directly with either party to 
this complaint. 
Ive read in the file that Mr B has also complained about the service weve provided him and 
his sister since bringing the complaint against Aviva to us.  I can see that these have been 
dealt with separately, in line with our usual process. In this final decision I am only able to 
look at the merits of Mrs Ps complaint against Aviva.
March 2001 allocation
It is not disputed that Aviva made a mistake when it allocated the 29 March 2001 single 
contribution to the Deposit fund instead of the Equity fund. It is also not disputed that Aviva 
erred again when it initially denied that it had made a mistake. But Aviva has now accepted  
admittedly after a four-month delay  that the contribution should have been invested in the 
Equity fund. It has also conceded it was wrong to deny its liability from the outset. To put 
things right, Aviva calculated the investment loss Mrs P suffered as a result of its mistake, 
apologised and offered £500 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Mr B didnt accept this. He thought the compensation calculated by Aviva was too low. He 
said this was because Aviva based its calculations on an incorrect notional Equity fund value 
for 29 March 2001; the time period used for the calculation was wrong; and the offer didnt 
include 8% interest. The investigator didnt agree, and he set out a methodology to be used 
by Aviva to update its calculations regarding the investment loss. Mr B maintained his 
objections and provided substantial arguments in support of his position and the redress he 
proposed. But, as I will explain, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr Bs 
methodology is the right one to use in this case. I consider that the methodology proposed 
(including the inputs provided by Aviva) is in line with the industry accepted methodology 
and does provide fair and reasonable redress in all the circumstances of this case. I will now 
address in turn what I consider to be the arguments relevant to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Equity fund value
In awarding compensation in this complaint, my aim is that Mrs P should be put as closely as 
possible into the position she would likely now be in if Aviva had correctly allocated her 
single contribution to the Equity fund on 29 March 2001.
To do this, a comparison must be made between the actual value of Mrs Ps pension when 
she transferred, to what its value would have been at that time if Mrs Ps single contribution 
of £6,751 was correctly invested in the Equity fund at the outset. Mrs P already held units within the Equity fund when the single contribution was made. The 
value of this investment is at issue in determining redress as Mr B thinks Avivas value isnt 
correct.  I note that Aviva has provided the offer and bid prices that apply to all investments 
in the Deposit and Equity funds at all times relevant to this complaint. I understand this 
information has been provided to Mr B as well. This information is important because when 
making an investment contribution the amount contributed is used to buy units in an 
investment, typically at the offer price. To then determine the actual value of that investment, 
the number of units bought at the offer price is then multiplied by the bid price. Using the 
offer and bid prices on 29 March 2001 as provided by Aviva, the value of the Equity fund at 
this time was £3,437.76. 
Mr B thinks this value isnt correct and so redress should not be calculated using this as a 
starting point. Instead he thinks that the Equity fund value on 29 March 2001 should be 
calculated by subtracting the £6,751 contribution from the actual total value (both Deposit 
and Equity funds) of Mrs Ps investment on that day. This gives a sum of £2,972.08. 
Having looked at the information provided and after careful consideration of Mr Bs 
arguments, Im not persuaded that the starting sum should be as Mr B suggests. I say this 
because Mr Bs methodology assumes the entirety of the single contribution would be used 
for the investment, when in reality only 98% of the contribution was invested, with the 
remainder used to pay fees and charges. This would be the case regardless of whether the 
contribution was made to the Equity or the Deposit funds. 
In addition, Mr Bs calculation doesnt fully take into account how investments of this sort are 
valued. As I explained above, the amount of money invested is used to purchase units in a 
fund. So, the investment is the number of units held. The number of units purchased 
depends on the offer price of the units. 
But to determine the value of those units, and therefore the value of the investment, the 
number of units purchased is multiplied by the bid price. The bid and offer prices often vary 
from each other. This means the actual value of an investment will not necessarily equal the 
same sum as was invested. The bid and offer prices can also vary from day to day, so the 
value of an investment will go up or down. And, I also note that the bid and offer prices for 
units in the Equity fund differ from those for units in the Deposit fund. 
Taking all of this together, I am satisfied the value of the existing investments in the Equity 
fund on 29 March 2001 was £3,437.76. And, had Aviva correctly allocated the single 
contribution, Mrs Ps investment in the Equity fund  which would have been the only fund 
she was invested in at that time  would have been valued at £9,722.96 on 29 March 2001.
Calculation period and interest
Mr B asserts that when calculating the loss Mrs P has suffered as a result of Avivas 
allocation error, the calculation period should run from 29 March 2001 to 22 July 2015 (the 
date Mrs P transferred her investment in the Deposit fund to the Equity fund) and interest 
added to any investment loss suffered during this time. He contends this is the correct way 
to redress the unsuitable investment in the Deposit fund. I appreciate Mr Bs strength of 
feeling about this, and I realise he will be disappointed, but I do not agree. 
As Ive said, when awarding compensation, my aim is to put Mrs P in the position she would 
be in (or as close as is possible) but for Avivas mistake. So, if Aviva had acted as it should 
have in March 2001 and invested Mrs Ps contribution in the Equity fund, there would have 
been no need to move her investments from the Deposit fund to the Equity fund as no 
investments would have remained in the Deposit fund on 22 July 2015. Instead, the 
March 2001 contribution would have remained invested in the Equity fund from the outset until Mrs P transferred her entire pension to another provider. So, to determine whether 
there was a past investment loss, a comparison should first be made between the actual 
value of Mrs Ps pension plan when she transferred and the notional value of her pension 
plan at that time, had the March 2001 contribution been allocated correctly. 
From the information Ive been provided, it appears Mrs Ps pension was transferred away 
from Aviva on 17 May 2019 with a value of £18,429.76. The new pension provider confirmed 
by letter dated 26 June 2019, that the sum transferred was received and invested on 
25 June 2019. 
If the contribution of 29 March 2001 was invested into the Equity fund, Aviva has calculated 
using the relevant bid and offer prices, the amount that would have transferred out would 
have been £22,435.58. Therefore, Mrs P has suffered a past investment loss. As set out 
below, Aviva must compensate Mrs P for this loss.
In addition, had things happened as they should have, Mrs P would have transferred and 
invested this larger sum with her new pension provider. But because this didnt happen, 
Mrs P has also lost out on potential investment growth. It is this investment growth that is to 
be used as part of determining the redress owed, not 8% interest as Mr B asserts. 
Mr B argues that 8% interest is required to redress the unsuitable investment in the Deposit 
fund. I am not going to address the accuracy of this contention in general. But, even were I 
to agree that wed award 8% interest to redress unsuitable investments, it is simply not the 
case here that the issue which needs redressing is an unsuitable investment. Suitability is a 
term generally used by the regulator regarding investments made following advice. Mr Bs 
use of unsuitable isnt correct here as such a conclusion assumes that the investment in 
the Deposit fund was made after a personal recommendation was given to Mrs P by a 
financial adviser and that that advice was not appropriate for her objectives and 
circumstances. But, Aviva as a pension provider didnt give unsuitable investment advice; it 
made a mistake when allocating a contribution. 
Furthermore, we typically make interest awards when a consumer has been deprived of the 
use of her funds. In this case, Mrs Ps funds have remained invested at all relevant times 
within a pension plan. From what Ive been provided, Mrs P had not accessed her pension 
benefits with Aviva (now with a different provider) and Ive been given no evidence to 
suggest this would have been different even if Aviva had correctly allocated the March 2001 
contribution to the Equity fund. 
Therefore, Mrs P has not been deprived of access to these funds; she has instead lost out 
on the potential growth that would have been generated by the difference between the actual 
and notional values of her pension fund when she transferred. The calculation methodology 
Ive set out below ensures that Mrs P is compensated for this financial loss as well.  
Trouble and upset 
I have considered carefully the redress offered for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused. Ive looked at everything that happened since the allocation error came to light and 
considered everything Mr B has told us about how it impacted Mrs P in order to decide how 
to fairly redress her for this non-financial loss. Whilst I have no wish to underplay the 
frustration this matter has caused, I find £500 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed but Im not going to ask Aviva to 
increase it further.Mr B has provided at least 33 examples of things that he says caused him and his sister 
trouble and upset while trying to get Aviva to correct its allocation mistake. And, he asked to 
be personally compensated for the time hes spent representing his sister in this complaint. 
I feel it important to reiterate here that the role of this service isnt to regulate or to punish 
businesses. That is the job of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We dont 
fine or punish businesses if we think a consumer hasnt been treated fairly. We look at the 
impact on the consumer in terms of any financial and/or non-financial loss, including any 
trouble and upset caused.  And as Ive explained, not every breach of regulations (or 
infringement of legal rights) will mean a customer hasnt been treated fairly nor will every 
mistake or unpleasantness cause a consumer to suffer a redressable non-financial loss.
Many of the examples provided demonstrate Mr Bs concerns about Avivas actuarial 
department and his displeasure with the way Aviva conducts business, including how it 
handles complaints. These are issues to be considered by the FCA, and he has been told 
how he can raise these issues with them directly.
Additionally, our rules only allow compensation to be awarded, in terms of the distress 
caused, to the complainant not their representative(s). Whilst it is clear that Mr B was caused 
unnecessary inconvenience and incurred costs, I must consider my powers with regard to 
any compensation I can award in a situation such as this. This service can only look at 
complaints from eligible complainants and can only tell a business to pay compensation for 
trouble and upset experienced by their customer  not by a third party. Representatives, 
both personal and professional, arent eligible complainants  and so we cant award for any 
impact experienced by them personally as we dont have the power to do so.
In this case, Mr B is a representative and not an eligible complainant so I cant direct Aviva 
to compensate him for his time. And, this service will not generally award compensation for 
inconvenience to a representative of a consumer. We would normally only award such 
compensation if the representatives inconvenience in turn led to distress or inconvenience 
for the business customer (Mrs P in this case). There is not sufficient evidence for me to 
conclude this is the case here.
And, although Mr B has provided a long list of things Aviva did or didnt do that he says were 
problematic and need to be redressed, very little has been said about how they have directly 
impacted Mrs P. But taking everything together, including the time taken for Aviva to accept 
it had made an error, its actions before and after, and bearing in mind that having a 
representative generally shields a consumer from some of the inconvenience and possible 
upset that could arise in these situations, Im satisfied the £500 offered is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the non-financial loss Mrs P has suffered as a result of Avivas errors.
Putting things right
In summary, my aim is that Mrs P should be put as closely as possible into the position she 
would likely now be in if Aviva had correctly allocated her single contribution to the Equity 
fund on 29 March 2001.
What should Aviva do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Aviva must:
Calculate the notional transfer value of Mrs Ps Aviva pension when the policy 
transferred on 17 May 2019 assuming the 29 March 2001 single contribution had 
been correctly invested in the Equity fund. Then, compare the current value of Mrs Ps pension with its current notional value on 
the basis that the notional transfer value calculated above had been invested in the 
same funds, in the same proportion from 25 June 2019. If the current notional value is 
greater than the actual current value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual current value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is 
payable.
If it isnt possible to obtain a current notional value, Aviva may use the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index to calculate the loss of investment 
growth attributable to the difference between the notional transfer value calculated 
above and the actual amount transferred on 17 May 2019. 
If there is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mrs P's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Aviva is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs P would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs P £500 for the time, trouble and upset caused by Aviva's mistakes.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs P in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman