DRN-3192394
The complaint
Mr W was involved in a car accident and complains about the handling of his claim by 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr W was involved in an accident. Advantage decided that his car was a write-
off and offered him a settlement payment for £3,600. Mr W thought his car was worth more 
than his. He refers to a limited number of similar models he could find advertised for sale 
and says this shows the average price is much higher than Advantage offered. 
Mr Ws car is a convertible. He says the value of this type of car is higher in the summer 
months. He doesnt think this has been considered. He also refers to added extras such as 
leather seats and parking sensors. He says this also increases the cars value.
Advantage says it assesses market value immediately prior to a claim, using industry 
standard guides. It explains this provides a value based on the exact age, make, model and 
specification of the vehicle including mileage and optional extras. Advantage says it doesnt 
base its valuation on advertised sale prices, such as the adverts Mr W refers to, as this 
doesnt reflect actual sold prices.  
Mr W wasnt happy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator decided not to 
uphold his complaint. She thought the method Advantage used to value Mr Ws car was fair 
and its settlement payment reflected this. 
Mr W disagreed. He thought the valuation didnt provide a realistic value of his car at the 
time of the accident. He says he couldnt buy a similar car for the payment Advantage 
provided and this has impacted his enjoyment of motoring. He feels the business pressured 
him into accepting its offer by threatening the removal of its hire car. Mr W asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing to him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
My role here isnt to decide the valuation of Mr Ws car. Its to decide whether Advantage 
acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its valuation. The issue regarding the hire car is 
being dealt with as a separate complaint. I wont be dealing with this point in my decision.
Mr Ws car was determined to be a write-off after the collision. This is not in dispute. I have 
read the terms of his policy to understand what is expected in these circumstances. The 
terms say:
Total Loss
If your Car cant be repaired or the cost of repair is uneconomical, your Car will be declared 
a Total Loss. This is commonly called a write-off.
And:
Youre covered for accident, vandalism and malicious damage 
If your Car is damaged or lost because of an accident, vandalism or malicious damage there 
are four ways your Policy can help you get back on the road again. Your Insurer will do one 
of the following: 
Pay for any necessary repairs 
Replace your Car 
Repair the damage 
Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss.
Also:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
Advantage valued Mr Ws car, at the time of the accident, based on the industry valuation 
guides. It has supplied evidence of this. These guides gave valuations of £3,495 and £3,650. 
I have checked a further guide, which gave a slightly lower valuation. Again, this was a 
valuation based at the time of the collision, which is in line with how the policy terms say the 
market value will be assessed. 
Mr W says the valuation doesnt consider the rarity of the car or the uplift in value during the 
summer months. He has supplied advertisements for his model of car to support his view 
that a similar car isnt available for the £3,600 settlement figure he received. 
I acknowledge the points Mr W has made. But his policy terms are clear that the market 
value can be determined using the industry guides. The valuation was calculated at the time 
of the accident, which is also the accepted approach set out in the policy terms. 
I accept the cars Mr W has shown listed for sale are advertised at more than £3,600. But 
these cars do have a lower mileage than his or were registered later. The advertised for-sale 
price is not an accurate measure of the price achieved when a car is sold. I also note 
Advantage has supplied its own listings of similar cars for sale, that are in a price range 
more closely supporting its valuation. 
Based on this evidence, Mr W received a payment close to the high end of the market 
valuation range detailed in the industry guides. The valuation was based at the time of the 
accident and on the correct vehicle specification. I understand Mr W is disappointed with the 
payment he received but I think Advantage has shown it decided this figure fairly and in line 
with the terms of its policy. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve his 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman