DRN-2354109
The complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt remove her estranged husband (Mr 
R) from a joint account they held.
What happened
Ms R said that she and Mr R held a joint Nationwide savings account. She says they 
separated about seven years ago and they both handed in a form to Nationwide to remove 
Mr R from the account. Ms R says since that time she has received correspondence and 
account statements in her name only but says Mr R opened a new Nationwide account and 
has now been given online access to view her savings account and the savings account 
appears on line as a joint account. She says that has caused problems and would like Mr 
Rs name removed.
Nationwide says it doesnt have a record of the request to remove Mr R from the account 
and says its records have the account as joint and says it has sent account statements to Ms 
R (its records have Mrs R not Ms R) showing the account as joint. It accepts giving Ms R 
incorrect information about how she could remove Mr R from the account and has 
apologised for that and paid £50 compensation.
The complaint was brought to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account statements showed the account was in joint names and there was no 
record of a change of account ownership some seven years ago. The investigator thought 
the compensation for the part of the complaint about the wrong information fair and 
reasonable.
Ms R doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide has fraudulently put Mr Rs 
name on the account statements its provided us with and says it ought to have been clear 
she was using the account not Mr R. She says she has disposed of her account statements 
but says they were in her name only and not sent to Mr R. She also says she has changed 
address and told Nationwide that and to do so she told it the account was in her name only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Ms R will be disappointed by my decision and I make clear that although 
the account may still be in joint names, I accept that it is Ms R that brings this complaint and 
will refer to her throughout this complaint as the complainant.
I appreciate that Ms R says both she and Mr R handed in the required forms to Nationwide 
to remove Mr R from the account. And I appreciate that Nationwide doesnt have a copy of 
the forms or any information about that request. In those circumstances it is impossible to be 
sure what took place and to reasonably conclude which side is correct about this issue. But I 
can see that Nationwide has given us account statements from when this account was 
opened in 2012 until 2020. I can see that all of the account statements are correctly 
addressed, and all are in joint names as Mrs R and Mr R. Im satisfied that the account terms 
and conditions say that the account statements will be sent to the first account holder which 
in this case is on Nationwides records as Mrs R.  So, I wouldnt have expected statements 
to have been sent separately to Mr R.
I can see that Ms R has told us she received regular account statements but has destroyed 
then and that they were only addressed to her and so Nationwide must have fraudulently 
placed Mr Rs name on the copies we have. I make clear that I have not seen any evidence 
that Nationwide has acted fraudulently and think it unlikely that it would. Im satisfied on 
balance that it has provided us with the same account statements that it sent to Ms R and 
that those statements clearly show the account was still in joint names. In those 
circumstances I would have expected Ms R to have noticed that and contacted Nationwide 
to find out why the account was still in joint names.
I dont think it matters that it may have only been Ms R that used the account or that 
Nationwide could reasonably have known that. I also dont think it matters that Ms R told 
Nationwide her new address as I dont think it follows that to do so Mr Rs authority would 
automatically have been needed. I think Mr R was likely to have noticed the issue when he 
opened a new Nationwide account and was given online access to all accounts he was 
linked to. 
There is no issue here that Nationwide did give Ms R incorrect information about how to 
close the account. I appreciate that is not the main part of her complaint, but I think the 
compensation of £50 is fair and reasonable. And fairly takes into consideration that Ms R 
didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the incorrect information, but I accept was 
caused inconvenience.
Overall, I cant be sure what took place in around 2013 with the request to remove Mr R from 
the account. But I find that about seven years of account statements were sent every quarter 
to Ms R which showed the account was in joint names, which I think on balance shows this 
account was always in joint names and Mr Rs name had not been removed. I appreciate Ms 
R will have unanswered questions about what took place in 2013 but regardless of that I 
think based on the information she would have received, she ought to have noticed and 
raised the issue again with Nationwide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman