DRN-4006611
The complaint
Mr C and Ms Vs complaint is against Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr C, who has dealt with the 
complaint throughout, says that when he and Ms V wanted to port (transfer) their mortgage 
interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another property, Barclays would not allow 
them to port their Mortgage Current Account Reserve (MCAR) at the same time. Instead 
Barclays said that the MCAR would need to be repaid in full, which Mr C and Ms V believe to 
be unfair and against the terms of the contract.
To settle the complaint, Mr C and Ms V want Barclays to port the mortgage, together with the 
MCAR, when they move house. In the meantime, they want Barclays to reimburse them for 
the additional bus fares their children are incurring in getting to school (about £3,300 per 
annum) from September 2020, and to compensate them for the difference in Stamp Duty 
Land Tax (SDLT) they would have paid in September 2020 and the actual SDLT they will 
eventually pay. Mr C and Ms V say they reserve the right to change or add to their desired 
outcome.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr C and Ms V being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 4 January 2008 Mr C and Ms V took out a Woolwich-branded mortgage with Barclays. 
The mortgage is on a lifetime tracker interest rate of 0.48% above Barclays base rate. The 
mortgage offer says that the mortgage is portable, provided that Mr C and Ms V still meet 
lending criteria in place at the time they apply.
The mortgage came with a Mortgage Current Account (MCA). The MCA has an overdraft 
facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, the overdraft limit (the 
Reserve) on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls 
rebalancing.  The MCA operates on an interest-only basis.
The overdraft, or MCAR, can be spent by the borrower, through the MCA, like a normal 
current account. But its not intended to be an additional regular income stream for the 
borrower; nor should it be used to make the mortgage repayments. On a joint account, either 
borrower can use the MCA, independent of the other.
Borrowers are free to repay the MCAR, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
The MCAR also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage account 
is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage is repaid 
sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
It is this latter scenario which has led to this complaint.
In 2020 Mr C and Ms V wanted to move house and transfer their mortgage interest rate 
product onto a new mortgage. However, Barclays explained that the MCAR (about £30,000) 
would need to be repaid and that it couldnt be ported along with the mortgage interest rate 
product. Mr C and Ms V couldnt afford to do this, and so decided not to move house.
Mr C and Ms V complained, but Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it wasnt 
required to port the MCAR. Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr C and Ms V brought their 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think 
Barclays had acted unfairly.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes pointed out 
that the mortgage offer says: If you are moving to a new property, on completion of your 
mortgage application, the address of your Mortgage Current Account will be changed to that 
of the mortgaged property. Mr C says that this is evidence that Barclays always intended 
for the MCAR to be portable along with the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As well as their complaint about the banks refusal to port the MCAR, Mr C and Ms V 
complained about other issues. On 6 March 2023 I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining 
why our service wasnt able to consider those issues. I will therefore make no further 
comment on those. This decision is solely about whether Barclays acted unfairly in declining 
to port the MCAR.
Barclays withdrew the MCA from its product portfolio some years ago. This is a decision the 
bank is entitled to make as part of its general commercial operations, and in line with 
regulatory changes in relation to responsible lending. Barclays wasnt under any obligation to 
notify borrowers, but the banks website explains that the MCA is no longer available for new 
mortgage applications.
It is correct that the mortgage interest rate product can be ported onto a new mortgage on 
another property. In order to port the interest rate, however, the existing mortgage has to be 
repaid and the account closed, and an application for a new mortgage has to be made. It is 
not simply a case of transferring the mortgage onto a new property.
Mr Cs argument is that he says there is a clause in the contract which supports his position 
that the MCA is portable. He points to clause 6 of the Supplementary Mortgage Conditions 
attached to the mortgage offer dated 30 August 2007. It says:
6.  If you are moving to a new property, on completion of your mortgage application, 
the address of your Mortgage Current Account will be changed to that of the 
mortgaged property
However, this does not mean what Mr C thinks it means. It doesnt relate to porting the 
MCAR at all. What it means is that, for the original application (which completed in 
January 2008), if the MCA  a separate product  had been opened before completion of the 
mortgage and the mortgage was for the purposes of buying a new house (rather than a 
re-mortgage), then on completion of the mortgage (and, by extension, the purchase), the 
address on the MCA would be changed to that of the new property.
The MCA Terms and Conditions say:2.4  When your Loans are repaid in full any amounts outstanding under the 
Mortgage Current Account Reserve must be repaid at the same time 
The term Loans is defined in the Terms and Conditions as:
the amount of money we lend, or re-lend you, under an Offer (including any Offer for 
a further advance), but not including any amount payable under the Mortgage 
Current Account Reserve 
And as I have explained above, porting the mortgage interest rate product would involve 
repaying the existing mortgage in full and taking out a new one. It is this event that would 
trigger repayment of the MCAR in full.
I understand how disappointing it was for Mr C and Ms V that Barclays wouldnt agree to port 
the MCAR along with the mortgage interest rate product. But in all the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded Barclays did anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman