DRN-4278527
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD wont refund a number of 
payments made from its account which it says it didnt make. And it complains about the 
customer service it received after it disputed the payments.
What happened
In September 2022, five payments were made out of Ts Tide account  totalling £102.98  
which it says it didnt make. T reported the payments to Tide as fraud the same day they 
were made, saying its directors vehicle was broken into and his wallet stolen. It asked Tide 
to refund the money it had lost.
Tide investigated but said T had unblocked and used the card since the disputed payments, 
despite saying it was stolen. So it didnt agree to refund the disputed payments. T wasnt 
satisfied with Tides response, so referred a complaint to our service.
When submitting its file to our service, Tide said T had asked if it could still use the card via 
a mobile payment service and the card payments it had done were made online  and so not 
necessarily with the physical card. So it offered to pay T compensation of £102.98. One of 
our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt Tide should refund the payments of 
£102.98, plus interest, and pay T £50 compensation for the inconvenience its poor customer 
service had caused. Tide agreed with our investigator but T disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments  
for example, by making them themselves or telling someone else they could make them.
Tide initially held T liable for the payments it said it didnt make, as T unblocked and used 
the card it said had been stolen. But T says it asked Tide whether it could still use the stolen 
card details via a mobile payment service until a replacement card was delivered, and that it 
needed to do this in order to carry on conducting its business. And Tide accepts T did ask 
this, and that the later payments the card was used for were done online and to recipients T 
had paid previously, so didnt necessarily mean T still had the physical card.
T has provided a consistent and plausible explanation for how the card was stolen. The 
disputed payments appear to have been made by contactless payments, which a thief who 
had stolen the card would have been able to do. And I havent seen anything to suggest T 
consented to the payments in any way. So I think its likely T didnt authorise the disputed 
payments.
Tide should therefore refund the disputed payments. And, as T has now been without this 
money for a period of time, Tide should also pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the 
date of the payments until the date they are refunded.
T is also unhappy at the customer service it received from Tide during its claim. It says the 
delays in Tide responding to it and in providing a replacement card caused it inconvenience 
and to lose out on work it could no longer complete.
And from looking at Tides records of its communication with T, I agree there were some 
delays in Tide responding to T through the in-app chat and that T didnt receive a call back 
when requested  which will have caused it some inconvenience.
T hasnt been able to provide us clear evidence of the losses it suffered due to losing out on 
work through. The replacement card was sent to it in line with Tides normal timescales, so T 
was only without access to the Tide account for a relatively short period. And, as T is a 
limited company, it cant suffer distress, only inconvenience.
And so, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think £50 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the inconvenience T was caused by Tides poor customer service. I dont think it would be 
fair to require Tide to pay any further compensation, or to refund the losses T says it suffered 
due to losing out on work.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TIDE PLATFORM LTD to:
Refund T the disputed payments, totalling £102.98
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement
Pay T £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman