DRN-2339944
The complaint
Mr P complains that the direct debit for his MBNA Limited credit card payment wasnt 
collected which led to a missed payment being reported on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr P has an MBNA credit card and was making his minimum repayments via a direct debit. 
On 1 May 2020 Mr Ps direct debit was cancelled and a new one set up. MBNA contacted 
Mr P to let him know he needed to make a manual payment in May 2020. On 7 May 2020 
Mr P made a manual payment of £250. 
On 11 May 2020 Mr Ps new direct debit instruction was cancelled. MBNA contacted Mr P 
via text message and letter to let him know.
MBNA sent Mr P a credit card statement that gave the next payment due date as 11 June 
2020. No payment was collected for 11 June 2020 so on 12 and 13 June 2020 MBNA 
contacted Mr P. 
On 23 June 2020 Mr P contacted MBNA and discussed the missed payment. MBNA agreed 
to leave the promotional rate in place but went on to report the missed payment to the credit 
reference agencies. Mr P cleared the missed payment on 28 June 2020 by making a manual 
payment. 
Mr P complained about the missed payment and MBNA responded on 14 September 2020. 
MBNA didnt find it had made a mistake by reporting the missed payment, but said Mr P had 
been incorrectly advised there would be no impact to his credit file when he called. MBNA 
offered Mr P £50 to apologise but didnt agree to amend Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service but the investigator who reviewed it didnt find 
MBNA had made an error or treated Mr P unfairly. Mr P asked to appeal and said he 
believes MBNA cancelled his direct debit instruction, not his bank. As Mr P asked to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has explained he wanted to amend his direct debit instruction so it was no longer 
collecting the minimum payment. I can see the direct debit instruction was cancelled on 
1 May 2020 then set up again. Mr P says that MBNA then cancelled the follow up direct 
debit instruction which is why the payment was missed in June 2020. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ps concerns, I havent found any information to support his view that 
MBNA cancelled the direct debit instruction. Ive looked at the other supporting information to 
see whether MBNA made an error. 
I note that after the new direct debit instruction was cancelled on 11 May 2020 MBNA sent 
text messages and letters to Mr P to notify him. MBNA also sent Mr P a credit card 
statement that said he needed to make a payment on 11 June 2020. 
The information Ive seen doesnt show that MBNA cancelled the direct debit instruction. And 
I think its clear it sent Mr P a reasonable number of notifications to let him know that no 
direct debit instruction was in place for the June 2020 payment. MBNA wrote to Mr P and 
also texted him. MBNA has provided its systems notes to show none of its text messages 
were returned undelivered. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I havent found that MBNA made an error or treated him 
unfairly. As the payment was due on 11 June 2020 but not made until 28 June 2020, MBNA 
can report it as late to the credit reference agencies. I havent found grounds to tell it to 
change the information reported. 
 MBNA has offered Mr P £50 because it incorrectly told him that the late payment wouldnt 
impact his credit file when he called. I agree that information was wrong but I think the £50 
MBNA has offered fairly reflects the impact of its error. I note that by the point MBNA gave 
Mr P the wrong information, the payment due date had already been missed so it hasnt 
affected the overall position. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I can only uphold a complaint where I find a business has 
made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly. In this case, I havent found that MBNA 
incorrectly reported the late payment and Im satisfied it dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly. As 
a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman