DRN-3894707
The complaint
Mr J complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund card payments he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr J explains he was staying in a city abroad. He had two Revolut cards with him. And the 
one he had as a backup was taken. He says that card was used by someone else to make 
payments on 7 March 2022 that came to just under £905 (sterling equivalent.)
Revolut said it wouldnt be refunding the payments. It said that the payments were made 
with the card and the PIN. And that there wasnt a basis to raise chargebacks.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. This was after Revolut had 
provided audit information which showed that the first disputed payment required the PIN. 
She noted that both of the cards were being used in different parts of the city at the same 
time. But Mr J had confirmed that he hadnt shared the PIN with anyone or written it down. 
So, she concluded hed most likely consented to the payments which might have included 
allowing someone to use the card.
Mr J didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. There were fraudulent payments 
all over the city abroad within minutes of his genuine ones and his friends could act as 
witnesses. The first attempt to use the card was declined due to an incorrect PIN. And hed 
discovered that his friends credit card had also been stolen he thinks from their hotel room. 
He had no reason to make a fraudulent claim and others could vouch for his integrity. If there 
was no possibility that the PIN had been discovered then he thought that the information 
from Revolut about the PIN use was unreliable. He wanted these possibilities to be 
considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Through our investigator I asked both Revolut and Mr J for some more information and I 
appreciate the further responses. I now have what I need to make a decision on this 
complaint. Ill refer to the information Ive relied on below.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr J wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr J authorise the payments on the account or allow someone else to use the card?
- And if he didnt authorise the payments then did he take sufficient card of his card and 
PIN as Revolut says?
Im satisfied that these payments were made with the genuine card and included the chip 
being read. I can see as Mr J says that an initial attempted payment with the card was 
declined because of an incorrect PIN being entered. The audit information that Revolut has 
provided also shows that the first successful payment was made with the PIN. I know that 
Mr J doesnt think that this is correct especially as this was only provided during our 
investigation. But having reviewed this carefully I find that this does demonstrate that the 
PIN was required. I find that all the payments were authenticated.
The issue is whether Mr J consented to the payments and so authorised them.
As hes said Mr J had two cards from Revolut. One which he used as a main card for 
payments. And the other which hed obtained as a backup. In his latest submission Mr J has 
explained that he believes the PIN on this backup card was the same as that on the main 
card. And Revolut has stated that this would have been set by him when the card was 
issued in February 2022. The PIN hadnt been changed since then.
Mr J has further said that all his cards and documents such as his driving licence were kept 
in a phone wallet. The main card was at the front and the backup card at the back. He 
hadnt moved the cards during his trip. And everything was left in his hotel room during 6 
March 2022 while he and friends were running a half marathon. There was no safety 
deposit box. A friend who left her bag in the room later realised that her credit card had 
been taken but not used. When they came back to the room they saw a mobile phone had 
been left charging there which they thought was strange. And this seemed to belong to a 
member of staff who had cleaned the room and came to collect it. The following day they 
checked out of that hotel and moved to a different one and Mr J didnt leave any belongings 
unattended during this time.
Mr J says he didnt notice the backup card was missing because it was at the back of the 
wallet. And even when he first reported the dispute he believed the payments to have been 
on his main card and told Revolut that he still had this. He says that it was only after this he 
realised his other card had been taken.
Id asked him what alerted him to the payments. And he said that on 8 March 2022 hed 
tried to make a payment with the main card which was declined. He didnt point out which 
that was specifically, and I couldnt see any recorded attempts on his statement that day. He 
then raised the chargeback that afternoon and after that had been rejected had an online 
chat with Revolut. I can see from the card records that his back up card had been blocked 
online before that chat.
Mr J has again emphasised that he hadnt written the PIN down or disclosed it to anyone. 
He could remember it because it was significant to him. He didnt consider anyone he was 
in contact with on the trip could have taken the card and used it. And he didnt give anyone 
permission to do so. Hed used his main card while away and Revolut has said that there 
were transactions that likely required the PIN to be entered on 5 March 2022 and then on 
the morning of 7 March 2022.
I note that the first disputed use of the back-up card was in the evening of 7 March 2022. 
And the payments were at merchants outside the city. And I can also see that Mr Js main 
card was as he says used during this period for example at 20:01 and 20:12 while two disputed payments were being made at 20:11 and 20:22. It does seem that the payments 
on the back up card were attempted until the balance had been used and payments had 
been declined. And I can see attempts to use this card for small payments on 8 March 2022 
in the evening and then 9 March 2022 in the middle of day. Again, both of these were 
declined and there is no record of any attempted use of this card after that. I can see that 
there were declined attempts to use the main card for a small payment on 10 March 2022 
back in this country and which Revolut says didnt go through as that card was blocked too. 
Mr J had contacted the authorities abroad and was told to report this loss when he returned 
home, and hes provided a relevant report number to show he did that.
I appreciate that Mr J thinks his card might have been taken on 6 March 2022 when hed left 
it in the hotel room. That is possible but Id expect someone in possession of the card to 
attempt to use this quickly as theyd risk discovery. And only one card was taken from his 
wallet and its unclear why a third party would take this one and think that thered be money 
on the related account. Although Mr J says his friends card was taken there was no 
evidence of use of this. At other times on the trip the backup card was with him in a phone 
wallet. And it seems that even Mr J wasnt really aware when it was or wasnt there. He 
would have no reason to take that card out of his wallet as he didnt use it. And Im unclear 
anyone else would even know about this card as Mr J says hed only used it when first 
issued to him.
I need to think about the use of the PIN. Again no one would it seems know that it was the 
same as that on the other card. I appreciate that there was an error with the first PIN 
attempt. But a third party would be highly unlikely to be able to guess a PIN in two attempts 
even if there was some significance in the digits to personal information for Mr J. And if Mr J 
had somehow been observed when using his PIN with the main card, its unclear how a 
person doing so would end up with his back up card and then decide to use that.
My assessment of the scenarios
A possibility is that an unknown third person was able to obtain the card and the PIN and 
then use this. The pattern of payments and use is consistent with this especially as Mr J 
says he was using the other card at the time and there were relatively large payments and 
then unsuccessful attempts. As I said above I think it unlikely if the card had been taken 
from the room there would have been a delay in using it. And there is no explanation of how 
such a person would see the PIN. Even if they had seen that and the main card being used 
it is unclear how they would then get access to this card and decide only to take a card that 
was at the back of a phone wallet when the main card was visible at the front.
Mr J is adamant that no one known to him or in contact with him during the trip could have 
taken the card without him knowing, discovered the PIN and used it. The use of the back up 
card rather than the main card could suggest a person involved had some knowledge of   
Mr J and had been able to observe him using the PIN on the main card. And would 
potentially know his movements during the trip. But Mr J doesnt think that this is an 
explanation and again there is no clear way in which the PIN was discovered and would be 
known to be the same as that on the other card.
Revolut considers that if Mr J didnt make the payments then he didnt take sufficient care of 
his details as hes reasonably required to do. But Mr J has ruled out the possibility of his PIN 
being discovered and has said he didnt write it down or tell it to anyone. So, I dont have a 
basis to think that this was the explanation.
Im afraid having considered and ruled out a number of scenarios this leaves the most likely 
one in my view being that Mr J consented to this card being used in this way. Again, I know 
he strongly denies this and is upset by the suggestion. As I say I cant know exactly what happened here. I appreciate hes given clear testimony and Ive considered that carefully. 
But having weighed everything I think it was reasonable for Revolut to hold Mr J responsible 
for these payments for the reasons Ive given.
I appreciate how disappointed he will be by this outcome given what is at stake for him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman