DRN-2917266
The complaint
Mr J complains how Azimo Ltd dealt with a foreign transaction on his behalf.
What happened
Mr J says he asked Azimo to make a foreign transaction to a business in South Africa in 
August 2020. He says he noticed the transaction had been cancelled and was told by Azimo 
he needed to supply a mandate document. Mr J says he was told by a third party that the 
document was not needed. He says the transaction failed for a second time and says he 
hasnt seen any evidence that Azimo attempted the transactions. Mr J says he has made a 
loss of about £150 and has spent some time trying to sort matters out.
Azimo says it acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and isnt responsible 
for a third partys actions in requiring the form in question to be provided or any losses 
caused. It says it processed the transaction and tried to help Mr J. Azimo has offered £50 for 
the delay in telling Mr J that the first transaction failed. 
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained what our role was and that we couldnt order Azimo to change its business 
process and thought it was a legal requirement to provide the requested form. The 
investigator didnt think Azimo responsible for the actions of a third party and that it acted 
inline with account terms and conditions. The investigator thought the compensation offer 
fair and reasonable and that Mr J authorised the second transaction.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says Azimo hasnt acted in his best interests and 
maintains he hasnt seen any evidence that his transactions were processed. He says there 
has been a lack of transparency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Mr J that we are not Azimos regulator and so its not our role to comment on a 
business process or if that process is transparent.
I have looked at Azimos terms and conditions which I think Mr J would have agreed to. 
Those terms and conditions make clear that Azimo is not liable for the actions of a third party 
and isnt responsible for any loss caused as a result. Im satisfied that Azimo processed Mr 
Js transactions, but the third-party business involved in it required a mandate to be 
completed. That mandate wasnt provided and so Im satisfied that the transactions couldnt 
be completed. Im also satisfied that Azimo wasnt responsible for either the mandate 
requirement or the decision not to be process either transaction. It follows that I dont think 
Azimo made a mistake here or acted unfairly and I cant fairly hold it responsible for the 
actions of a third-party business that it has no control over.
I accept Azimo could have explained what had happened sooner than it did. But I can see 
its offered £50 compensation for that part of the complaint which I find fair and reasonable. I 
dont think that mistake had a significant impact and can see that Mr J authorised the 
transaction again.
I appreciate the main part of Mr Js complaint is that he questions if the transactions were 
ever attempted and that he hasnt seen evidence of that. I have looked at Azimos records 
and Im satisfied that the transactions were carried out and am also satisfied that Azimo 
attempted to sort out the problem by making contact with the third-party business. I cant 
fairly comment on the level of information given to Mr J as part of his separate request and 
can see that the investigator has explained that a different organisation deals with such 
matters.
Overall, Im satisfied that Azimo attempted to carry out the transactions but couldnt due to 
the requirements of a third party that it had no responsibility for. For those reasons I cant 
fairly order Azimo to do anything further in the circumstance of this complaint. I find this 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Azimo Ltd has 
made a fair and reasonable compensation offer for the delay issue. Mr Js acceptance of that 
offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman