DRN-3318202
Complaint
Miss F has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly increased her overdraft limit and 
then added interest fees and charges to her balance which caused financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Fs complaint and thought that TSB ought to have 
realised that Miss Fs overdraft had already become unsustainable for her by February 2018. 
So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Fs overdraft from 
this point. TSB didnt agree in full and as Miss F didnt accept its alternative offer of 
settlement, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think TSB acted unfairly when it continued 
charging overdraft interest and associated fees from February 2018. By this point, it was 
evident Miss Fs overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her. A cursory look 
at her statements leading up to this period shows that Miss F only ever saw a credit balance 
on her account for a few days at a time. And even then this was as a result of borrowing 
from payday lenders. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive seen what TSB has said about only just increasing Miss Fs 
overdraft limit in January 2018. But, in my view this simply reinforces that TSB ought to have 
been aware of the issues that Ive highlighted above. Equally, I dont think that Miss F being 
provided by additional unsustainable credit elsewhere means that it was fair and reasonable 
for TSB to continue charging in the way that it did.  
So I think that by February 2018 TSB should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Miss F with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft. As TSB didnt react to Miss Fs account usage, and instead 
simply continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. 
Miss F ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when her overdraft 
was already unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Miss F lost out because of what TSB did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Miss F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Fs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Fs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from February 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Miss F to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss F is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with TSB to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Fs credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
February 2018. TSB can also reduce Miss Fs overdraft limit by the amount of 
any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt 
leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Fs credit file. TSB can also 
reduce Miss Fs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Miss F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman