DRN-3505159
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) were rude to him and his wife, 
and that they failed to make reasonable adjustments in line with the Equality Act 2010.
What happened
Mr D visited a Halifax branch with the intention of adding his wife to his account. This was 
during Covid-19 times when face masks were commonly worn.
Mr D says he is deaf but that he can lip-read. He and his wife asked a branch worker to 
remove, or lower, their facemask to help with the communication. Mr D says the branch 
worker said they wouldnt remove their facemask and that an altercation arose. He says they 
were rude and failed to make reasonable adjustments for his disability.
Halifax say the branch worker wasnt prepared to take the risk of removing their mask and 
that Mr Ds wife became abusive, so they were asked to leave the branch.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they said there was little evidence to conclude 
either way what happened so they didnt think they could uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, it isnt for our service to make a ruling as to whether the 
Equality Act has been broken  that would be for the courts to decide. But, we do consider 
whether or not a business has treated their customer fairly, and that will include requests for 
reasonable adjustments.
Mr D says Halifax refused to make reasonable adjustments to assist him with the addition of 
his wife on the account.
But I have very little to go on here. Mr D has provided his testimony, as has the branch 
worker  and they dont marry up. I dont think it was unreasonable for the branch worker to 
say they wouldnt lower or remove their facemask if they were the safety requirements at the 
time. So, I dont think that was them being rude, even though guidelines have suggested it 
may have been appropriate to do so at the time.
I also note there are no independent witness statements which support either testimony, 
although Halifax say there were witnesses and that they would have filed a report had they 
managed to obtain Mr D or his wifes details. Mr D said that they hadnt got as far as doing 
that at the time.
I also appreciate there may have been some alternatives which could have been considered 
to be safe  such as speaking between screens. But Mr D says his wife was able to 
communicate with the branch worker for him, and so I dont consider such alternatives to 
have been necessary in the circumstances, even if they might have been preferable.
Ultimately, I havent seen enough to be able to say Mr D was discriminated against, 
particularly as his wife was there to assist with communication. And I dont find his testimony 
to be persuasive enough to uphold his complaint that it was the branch worker who started 
the altercation which led to them being asked to leave.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman