DRN-4256459
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his application for additional borrowing 
due to cladding issues on his property. Mr P said that he provided Barclays with an EWS1 
form in May 2022, but it took two months for them to decline the application which has meant 
an increase in interest rates on an unsecured loan he had to take out instead.
What happened
Mr P has a mortgage with Barclays, and he contacted them in April 2022 to ask about 
increasing his mortgage as he wanted to purchase the final share in order to own 100% of 
his property  also known as staircasing. 
He said he explained to the adviser that his property was affected by cladding and that he 
had an EWS1 form which confirmed a rating of B2. Mr P said the adviser didnt think it would 
be an issue as Barclays already held security for the property. Mr P said the adviser made 
an appointment for 11 May 2022 to discuss the application and he sent Barclays the EWS1 
form two days before the appointment. 
Mr P said he made the application on 16 May 2022, and he contacted Barclays on 4 July 
2022 as he hadnt heard anything, and he was told they still hadnt arranged for a valuation 
of the property. Mr P explained that he already had a valuation that was completed by the 
housing association, and this was due to expire on 2 August and didnt want to pay for 
another one. Barclays acknowledged the delays and offered Mr P £200 compensation.
A desktop valuation was then completed, and the value came back as zero due to the 
cladding issues and the fact the property was rated as B2. Barclays declined the additional 
borrowing after this was sent to their underwriters to review  they said it fell outside of their 
lending criteria. 
Mr P said he was in a rush to complete before his own valuation had expired so he had to 
take out an unsecured loan of £25,000 and put this towards the amount needed to staircase 
with some inheritance that he had. But he said if Barclays told him sooner  in May 2022 
when they had the EWS1 form that it was outside of their criteria, he would have been able 
to obtain a lower interest rate on the loan. 
Mr P said the loan rate he could have obtained in May 2022 was 2.8% and he ended up 
applying in July 2022  when Barclays declined the application  at a rate of 3.2%. He feels 
this is unfair. He said it is costing him more now each month then it would have done had 
Barclays of declined the application sooner. He thinks it was clear from the start that the 
property didnt meet their lending criteria as he sent them the EWS1 form straight away. 
Barclays acknowledged there were delays and offered Mr P £200 for this but said the 
additional borrowing didnt meet their lending criteria and they had to refer it to their 
underwriters which was the right thing to do. 
Mr P wasnt happy with what Barclays had offered so he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. He 
thought that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in declining the application as it was clear 
that it didnt meet their lending criteria, but he thought they should have told Mr P earlier. So 
he said that Barclays should cover the difference in the interest rates that Mr P took out on 
the personal loan. 
Barclays responded and asked for evidence of the interest rates which the investigator sent 
to them. Barclays were not happy with some of this evidence as they said they couldnt be 
sure that Mr P would have been able to take the loan out in May 2022. They also said that 
although they delayed the process, it had to be referred to their underwriters for a decision. 
Barclays also said that Mr P had since applied for further borrowing in February 2023 for 
£30,000 which was initially declined but then overturned. They said that Mr P used this 
money to repay the personal loan. 
Our investigator challenged Barclays on this as Mr P told him he didnt use the money to 
repay the personal loan and took it out for home improvements. Barclays then apologised 
and confirmed that Mr P didnt use this money to repay the loan. Our investigator asked 
Barclays what had changed since May 2022 to February 2023 which meant that the 
additional borrowing was now approved, and Barclays said that by February 2023, Mr P 
already owned all of his share for the property and they had received a letter from the 
housing association confirming that remedial costs were not going to be passed on to the 
leaseholders. Barclays said this was referred to their underwriters and the application got 
approved. But Barclays didnt comment again on the difference in interest rates which is 
what Mr P would like in order to resolve this complaint. 
As Barclays have not commented further on the difference in the interest rates, even though 
they asked for the evidence, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at Grenfell Tower 
led to concerns across the country about the possibility of combustible cladding and other 
fire safety issues  including balconies built on top of each other  which might allow fire to 
spread quickly through affected buildings.
The EWS1 process allows a qualified fire safety inspector to assess a buildings external 
wall system. The building will then be given a rating  showing that there are no fire safety 
risks, that there are issues but the risk is low, or that there are issues which are high enough 
risk to require remedial work. Obtaining an EWS1 form is the responsibility of the building 
owner/management company, not individual leaseholders, since the form covers the whole 
building. 
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders enough 
information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety risk. Lenders will 
only lend where the property which is subject to the mortgage is good security for the loan  
and if theres a fire safety risk, it might not be good security. Thats because of the higher 
risk of damage to the property, and also a greater likelihood that it wont be able to be sold.
Mr Ps property is rated a B2  which means there is substantial risk requiring remediation. 
Having considered everything carefully, I think that Barclays could have told Mr P sooner 
that the application for additional borrowing wouldnt be approved and there were delays in 
arranging the desktop valuation which could have been avoided. I appreciate the application 
was sent to Barclays underwriters but having looked at their policy, it doesnt look as though 
this would have been approved. Under their policy at the time, Barclays could only apply 
discretion to allow additional lending in impacted buildings where the funds were required to 
fund remediation works to the cladding. The policy specifically says:
Barclays will allow lending or additional lending to existing mortgage customers only in 
order to fund remediation works (within existing policy and where lending is assessed as affordable). Such an application must be accompanied by the following documentary 
evidence:
i. Original EWS1 form;
ii. Headed notepaper document from freeholder/developer/Housing Association 
outlining remedial costs;
iii. A schedule of works detailing actions to be taken, timescales and that the building 
will be compliant with fire safety regulations post the works.
Mr P didnt want the additional borrowing for remediation works, he wanted the money to 
purchase his final share in the property, so I do agree that Barclays were in their right to 
decline the additional borrowing. However, Mr P had already sent them the EWS1 form in 
May 2022 which showed the property rating as B2  which confirms that there were fire 
safety issues. And Mr P said he told the adviser that the building had cladding but the 
adviser didnt think it would be an issue because Mr P already had his mortgage with them. 
So I think based on Barclays policy at the time and the reason that Mr P wanted the 
additional funds for  I cant say that this was ever going to be approved. I also note from 
Barclays contact notes that it was mentioned that the issue with the property wasnt picked 
up in May 2022 which adds to this argument. 
Because Mr P already had a valuation from the housing association which expired on 2 
August 2022, he was in a rush to complete this. So he used some of the money he had from 
inheritance and borrowed a further £25,000 on an unsecured loan which is the most he was 
able to obtain. He took out the loan in July 2022 which had an interest rate of 3.2% but had 
he of been told sooner  in May 2022  that his additional borrowing wouldnt have been 
approved, Mr P would have been able to obtain an unsecured interest rate at 2.8%.
I have seen evidence that confirms both of these rates and I dont agree with Barclays that 
Mr P may not have been able to secure a personal loan in May 2022. He managed to get the 
loan approved in July 2022  at a higher rate  and I havent seen anything that suggests 
any of his personal circumstances had changed. So, even though there are no guarantees 
that applications would be approved, on balance, I believe Mr P would have been able to 
take this loan out in May 2022. So I think he has been disadvantaged and is at a financial 
loss because of this. 
Barclays and Mr P have told us that Mr P applied for additional borrowing again in February 
2023 which was initially declined but then overturned. Barclays said that it was approved in 
February 2023 as Mr P already owned the entire property by this point and they had a letter 
from the housing association that confirmed the costs would not be passed to the 
leaseholders  so they were comfortable with the risk. I think Mr P owning the entire property 
and confirmation of the costs would have allowed Barclays to consider the application 
differently to what they had done in May 2022 - but they still need to put things right for Mr P.
Mr P never used the additional £30,000 to pay off the personal loan (as initially thought by 
Barclays) and the application form confirms this as it clearly states the money was to be 
used for home improvements. So even though Mr P has since been able to obtain further 
borrowing for home improvements from Barclays, he still has his personal loan outstanding 
and I have seen evidence of this. So Barclays should pay the difference in the interest rate 
of 2.8% against the rate of 3.2% and calculate this over a term of five years which is how 
long he took the personal loan out for. 
Our investigator has already submitted all the necessary evidence to Barclays to enable 
them to do this so there isnt anything further they should need in order to calculate this.  
I also think that the £200 that Barclays offered Mr P for the initial delays with the application 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Calculate the difference in the rate of 2.8% against the rate of 3.2% for five years, 
which is how long Mr P took out the personal loan for. Barclays will need to pay the 
difference to Mr P
Pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused if not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman