DRN-4004505
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) should have defaulted her account in 
2014.
What Happened
Miss D had a credit card from Santander. In December 2013, the balance was £1,578. She
ran into financial difficulty and fell into arrears. In December 2013 she contacted a debt
support charity (which I shall call A) for help - and entered a debt management plan (DMP).
A payment offer of £17.16 per month was accepted. Miss D made payments to A from then
on. On 5 March 2014, Santander sent to Miss D a Notice of Default with the arrears at
£49.84 and the balance £1,543.98. From then on, Miss Ds credit file showed either in
arrangement or DM (meaning debt management plan). The payments of £17.16 were
made regularly apart from period between August 2016 and Jul 2017  when missed
payments were shown on her credit file  as lower payments of £11 were made. With effect
from June 2022, the agreed payments were reduced to £12.43 per month. As of January
2023, the balance was £71.63.
Miss D complained. She said she had run into financial difficulty in 2013-2014 and had dealt
with her debts, which were then £23,000. Since then, she has made the agreed payments to
her creditors  all of whom defaulted her account as she was in a DMP. She thought her
account had also been defaulted by Santander in the same way - and had been told that by
Santander. So  she was now upset that her credit file had been marked with missed
payments throughout the period  event though she had made all the agreed payments to
the debt charity A. Therefore, she said her credit file was affected for another six years from
then on. She said she wouldve been better off by not making the payments and letting her
account fall into default at the time  as her credit file would by now be cleaned up.
Santander said theyd made an error in a letter dated April 2014 as that mentioned the
account had defaulted  when it hadnt. They said Miss Ds account hadnt defaulted as she
had continued to make the minimum monthly payments. They apologised for the error in the
letter and sent Miss D a cheque for £50 by way of compensation.
Miss D brought her complaint to us and our investigator said Santander acted reasonably.
He said Santander should pay another £100 for the poor service and the mistake in the
letter. But otherwise, he said Santander were correct to not default the account as payments
were being made. Santander said the account had never reached 180 days in arrears, so a
default wasnt registered.
Miss D didnt agree, and she also said there couldnt be any missed payments (as shown on
her credit file) as she had made the payments to A  who were responsible for sending the
money each month to Santander (along with other creditors). She asked that her complaint
be looked at by an ombudsman  and therefore it has come to me.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
I appreciate where Miss D is coming from. She says it was her fault she fell into financial
difficulty in 2013/2014 but faced up to her problems at the time and came to arrangements
with all her creditors. She says all the payments have been made  and she is coming to the
end of a long road with all of them. She says they all defaulted her accounts back in 2014 
as she was in a DMP, but Santander didnt  but she assumed theyd done the same. And if
they had, the six years would now be up and she would have a clean credit file moving
forward.
Santander argue that as Miss D made the minimum payments  they didnt default Miss Ds
account. An agreement of £17.16 per month was made  and as the minimum was 1% of
the debt outstanding (which was £1,578), she effectively met the contractual minimum
payments each month. And her credit file shows either DM (in a DMP) or in arrangement.
And as these entries go up to the present time, they will remain on Miss Ds records for
another six years.
I asked some more questions and sought information from Santander; they showed us their
customer notes, and letters sent to Miss D at the time. The customer notes show that in
December 2013, the debt charity A contacted Santander. Miss Ds disposable income was
worked out at £291 per month and Santander accepted the offer of £17.16 per month.
But we asked for letters sent at the time. Santander couldnt show us a letter which
confirmed the payment agreement, but they did show us two letters from March 2014  and
these are important. One dated 5 March 2014 said We are writing to tell you that we plan to
advise credit reference agencies that you have defaulted on your account because of your
arrears balance. We will do this in 28 days time if you have not repaid your outstanding
balance or been in touch with us so we can come to an agreement to repay this amount in
full.a default will stay on your file for 6 years
And a letter dated 4 March 2014 said We have been approached by the Third Party
company you have enlisted to help with your financial affairswe understand you may be
experiencing difficulties in repaying your outstanding commitments. We understand you will
not be making the full payments to your credit card as agreed when you took the credit card
out.there has been a breach of your agreement and I have enclosed a copy of our
standard default notice for your attention.
Miss D has said she was told by Santander at the time that her account would be defaulted 
and I think it is reasonable to say these letters confirm that. I think they are clear  that Miss
Ds account would be defaulted, and she was therefore reasonably entitled to think that
would be the case. I also noted that they were sent some time after A had contacted 
Santander, and after two payments of £17.16 had been made  so Santander sent them in
the knowledge of the agreed payments being made.
And  Miss Ds account was then three months in arrears  when the letters were sent.
Santander say they would normally default an account after six months arrears. But
guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the
consumer is six months behind with their payments. So  it was quite possible that Miss Ds
account couldve been defaulted in March/April 2014.
Santander, in their final response, refereed to another letter dated in April 2014 which said
Miss Ds account had been defaulted  and said that was an error. But given the other
strong evidence now produced, I dont think that is so relevant to Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D has also said she doesnt see how her credit file was showing missed payments
between August 2016 and July 2017. Santanders records show she paid around £11 per
month at that time  so it looks accurate. But the action Im proposing will deal with that
anyway.And so  because of the letters sent to Miss D in March 2014; I think Miss D was entitled to
consider her account had been defaulted at that time  in April 2014. And Santander should
rework Miss Ds credit file to show that. And advise the credit reference agencies. And
because of the six-year rule, that means the default should have expired from Miss Ds credit
file in April 2020. It looks like there has been a late payment in April 2022. I think Santander
are entitled to advise that to Miss Ds credit file as they are obliged to.
Its clear from what Miss D had told us that she has gone through a long period of difficulty in
terms of sorting out and repaying her debts. And so  to then be told that her account had
not been dealt with in the way she was led to believe must have been very stressful and
disappointing. She described to us also her current illnesses. Therefore, I think it is only
reasonable that Santander pay additional compensation of £300 for what happened.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Miss D agreed, but Santander didnt. They said again that Miss D was in an arrangement for 
the period and made the agreed payments, so the account didnt go into default. They 
showed us the guidance from CRAs for defaulting accounts which said:
- Defaults should in generally only be recorded if an account is three months in 
arrears, and certainly if arrears reach six months.
- If an arrangement is agreed, then a default wouldnt normally be registered unless it 
is broken.
I now need to consider these further views and make a final decision.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Santander have said in response to the provisional decision. But 
equally, theyve only really repeated what I had considered when making the provisional 
decision.  And  looking at the guidance Santander sent to us, it also says that a default may 
be recorded (if) The account is or has been included in a bankruptcy, CCJ, Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) or similar And  arguably, Miss D entering a debt 
management plan would be covered by this.
But I also come back to the main points of the provisional decision  that Santander wrote to 
Miss D  twice - in March 2014 to say they were defaulting her account.
And those letters were sent some time after the agency acting in the DMP had contacted 
Santander to propose the repayment programme in December 2013. So  the default letters 
were sent in the knowledge that the payment arrangement had been agreed. So  it doesnt 
appear that it did prevent Santander from saying they would default Miss Ds account.
Therefore, while Im grateful for the arguments that Santander have put forward, they dont 
change my final decision - which is unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
Re-work Miss Ds credit file to show she defaulted in April 2014. The default will have run off in April 2020. Credit reference agencies to be advised.
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman