DRN-1777081
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the amount paid by Health Shield Friendly Society Limited in 
settlement of claims he made under his health cash plan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R held a health cash plan insurance policy with Health Shield. Among other benefits, the 
policy offered to pay benefit for the time Mr R spent in hospital receiving treatment.
In August 2019, Mr R was admitted to hospital for treatment. He was kept in overnight and 
discharged the following day.
In September 2019, Mr R was again admitted to hospital and kept in overnight before being 
discharged the following day.
Mr R made a claim for both instances of hospitalisation. Health Shield accepted the claims. It 
paid him £65 for each occasion.
Mr R thought he had been underpaid. He pointed out that the policy said that £65 would be 
paid for each day spent in hospital. He said that he had spent two days in hospital on each 
occasion. He complained to Heath Shield.
Health Shield didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that Mr R was eligible for hospital 
inpatient benefit and this was paid at the rate of £65 for each night he was in hospital. It said 
his benefit, which totalled £130, had therefore been calculated correctly.
Mr R was unhappy at Health Shields response. He referred his complaint to us. He said that 
he had spent two full days in hospital on each occasion he had been admitted. He therefore 
considered he should be entitled to a total of four days benefit, a total of £260.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Health Shield had settled the claim fairly.
Mr didnt accept the investigators findings.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy document offers two types of hospital benefit. These are hospital inpatient benefit 
(which is paid at the rate of £65 per night) and hospital day surgery benefit (which is paid at 
the rate of £65 a day).
In describing hospital inpatient, the policy states: 
We will pay benefit at the appropriate nightly rate for the period a person entitled to benefit 
is admitted  for inpatient treatment in a recognised hospital or hospice.
What is covered:
Any period of overnight stay in a hospice, an NHS hospital, a private hospital or a registered 
treatment centre, up to a maximum of 25 nights, for a medical condition to be treated or 
investigated
In describing hospital day surgery the policy states:
We will pay benefit at the appropriate day rate for the period a person entitled to benefit is 
admitted  for hospital day-surgery treatment in a recognised hospital without an overnight 
stay.
On the two occasions that Mr R was admitted to hospital, he was kept in overnight. This 
means he was not eligible to claim hospital day surgery benefit; he was only able to claim 
hospital inpatient benefit.
The policy clearly explains that hospital inpatient benefit is paid at the rate of £65 for each 
night that the policyholder is in hospital. Mr R was in hospital for one night on each occasion. 
Im satisfied that Health Shield therefore paid him the correct benefit he was due under the 
policy. It does not need to pay him anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman