DRN-3739319
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Phoenix Life Limited undervalued his pension fund. He also 
complained that some of its service was below standard.
What happened
Mr B took out a pension policy in 1983. At the time the policy was administered by another 
company. But, by the time of the events Mr B complained about Phoenix Life was 
responsible for the policy.
In December 2021 Mr B contacted Phoenix Life about taking the benefits from his policy. It 
sent him a retirement options pack showing an estimated fund value of around £81,500.
Mr B wrote to Phoenix Life in February 2022 saying that he wished to proceed and asked it 
to contact his accountant about his tax position as hes not a UK resident. Phoenix Life 
asked Mr B to call its contact centre which he did. Following the call, in March 2022, 
Phoenix Life sent Mr B a questionnaire to allow him to apply for an annuity. 
In April 2022 Mr Bs accountant wrote to Phoenix Life saying that Mr B would like to apply for 
his tax-free lump sum and to buy an annuity. He enclosed Mr Bs completed annuity 
questionnaire. Later that month Phoenix Life sent Mr B an application pack to claim his 
pension and apply for the annuity. The pack gave the estimated value of Mr Bs fund as 
£77,547. It said:
Please note that the above figures are not guaranteed. The pension savings value includes 
any amount of final bonus allocated to the plan(s) to date. Final bonus amounts are not 
guaranteed, and are adjusted to match the overall plan payout to the asset share (the 
underlying value of the assets, stocks, shares, bonds, cash etc that support the plans share 
of the overall fund) earned on the plan since its inception. If the value of the plans asset 
share falls between the date of this letter and the date when pension savings are taken, 
there can be a significant reduction in the value actually paid out.
Mr B completed and returned the relevant forms. Phoenix Life received those on 
16 May 2022 and put them in a queue for processing. Before processing the pension claim, 
on 20 May 2022, Phoenix Life sent Mr B an annual plan update. That said Mr Bs fund value 
stood at £86,516 as of 19 May 2022. Mr B says that he didnt receive this letter until the 
beginning of June. 
On 31 May 2022, Phoenix Life processed Mr Bs pension claim at the date it had received 
the required information from him, 16 May 2022. At that date the fund was valued at 
£77,833.84. It paid him his tax-free allowance of £19,458.46 and put Mr Bs chosen annuity 
in place. 
Mr B called Phoenix Life in June 2022. He queried the value of its figures, as those didnt 
match the amounts in the update it had sent to him on 20 May 2022. He also queried the tax 
Phoenix Life had deducted. It wrote to Mr B with a breakdown of his fund value. It said the 
policy is subject to UK tax rules. After that Mr B contacted Phoenix Life but he wasnt happy 
with its replies and complained. 
On 30 June 2022 Phoenix Life wrote to Mr B. It said the fund value was higher on 
19 May 2022 than 16 May 2022 because his policy was due to receive an annual bonus on 
19 May. 
In July 2022 Phoenix Life replied to Mr Bs complaint. It repeated the explanation about why 
the fund value would have increased on 19 May 2022. It said that, in line with its standard 
process, it had settled Mr Bs pension claim at the date it received the necessary forms, 
16 May 2022. It said it had done so correctly. But it acknowledged that some of its service 
hadn't been up to standard. So, it offered Mr B £120 compensation to address the impact of 
that. It added that it had processed his pension claim outside of its ten working days service 
standard. So, it had calculated that simple interest of £48.43 was due to Mr B because of 
that delay. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Phoenix Life needed to take any further action. Mr B didnt agree so his complaints been 
passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Did Phoenix Life fairly calculate Mr Bs pension claim?
I fully understand Mr Bs frustration with how events have played out. From his perspective, 
by the time Phoenix Life processed his pension claim his fund value had increased by 
almost £8,700. But, rather than processing his claim using that sum, it used the lower figure 
from a calculation of his entitlement two weeks earlier. I can understand why Mr B thinks 
Phoenix Life should have paid him a pension based on the higher amount. However, while I 
can empathise with what he might see as an injustice, I think Phoenix Life  for the most part 
 processed his claim fairly. I've explained why below.
Like most personal pensions the amount Mr B was entitled to when he came to claim his 
pension was dependent on a number of factors. The two most significant of those were the 
amounts he had paid into his pension fund and the performance of the investments in that 
fund. So, Mr Bs entitlement to his final pension would change on a regular basis depending 
on the performance of the markets his funds were invested in.
So, when it came to paying out a claim for a pension against that fund, Phoenix Life had to 
determine a fair date from which to do so. And, in line with its usual process, it used the date 
on which Mr B provided the information it needed in order to process that claim. I think thats 
a fair way for Phoenix Life to operate. As it largely allows the policy holder to decide, subject 
to any postal service delays, when they want the claim to begin from. Phoenix Life's process 
also ensures it treats all of its consumers with similar claims in the same way. And it means 
consumers aren't then subject to additional fluctuations in the market when a claim is waiting to be processed. Indeed I've listened to a phone conversation Mr B had with our investigator, 
in which he said he understood that if Phoenix Life had processed his claim on the day it 
was received  16 May 2022  then it would have been fair for it to use his entitlement on 
that date. So I think Mr B understands why Phoenix Life paid him the pension that had 
accrued on that date and that he didnt have an automatic entitlement to a higher sum that 
might have become payable at a later date. 
In this case, between the date of Mr Bs claim and the date Phoenix Life settled it Mr Bs 
pension fund grew. However, its certainly not unusual, and I don't think its unfair, for there 
to be a short delay between a business like Phoenix Life receiving a claim and paying it. All 
claims of this nature will take some time to check and process and that will usually mean that 
claims aren't settled on the day they arrive. So, on receipt, Phoenix Life puts the claims into 
a queue of cases awaiting action. That was the case here. And Phoenix Life has a service 
standard of ten working days for processing such claims. I think thats a reasonable 
timeframe to complete such tasks.
What was particularly unfortunate for Mr B was, on 19 May 2022 while his claim was waiting 
to be processed, his policy went through an annual update. And having processed that 
update, Phoenix Life notified him that his fund had increased by almost £8,700. That update 
wouldnt have happened if Phoenix Life had already processed the claim on 16 May 2022. 
But I dont necessarily think Phoenix Life did anything wrong in notifying Mr B with the result 
of the update seeing as the claim hadnt yet been processed. But as it was still awaiting 
action the update went ahead. And given that this was only three days after Phoenix Life had 
received Mr Bs claim, I don't think it was unfair that it hadn't already processed the claim, in 
that short space of time. . 
It might also help if I explain that, when processing the update, Phoenix Life applied whats 
known as a final bonus to the policy. The final bonus is calculated based on the 
policyholders share of the profits from their plan over its entire lifetime. So the longer a 
policyholders held the plan for the more likely it is that their final bonus will increase as they 
receive a larger share. It follows that the final bonus isnt solely based on investment returns 
in the period immediately before the claim. But, that figure can go up or down and its not 
guaranteed that any bonus at all will be payable. And Phoenix Lifes documents make it 
clear that the final bonus only becomes payable at the actual date of the claim. 
In this case Mr Bs date of claim was 16 May 2022. The final bonus that Mr B was due at that 
time was included in his fund value of £77,547. Had Phoenix Life received Mr Bs claim on 
19 May 2022 he would have received the higher sum of £86,516. But Phoenix Life didnt 
receive his claim on that date, it received it on 16 May 2022; so I think it was fair that it 
applied the final bonus that was due on 16 May 2022.
As I've said above, it was certainly unfortunate for Mr B that Phoenix Life had calculated an 
update to his policy during the short period while his claim was awaiting action. And I can 
understand that receiving that update might have led him to believe his claim would be 
settled based on that figure. But I think Phoenix Life has gone some way to explain that the 
date of his claim was 16 May 2022 and as such he wasnt entitled to any extra sums that 
may have become due after that date. 
Should Phoenix Life have advised Mr B when to submit his claim?
Mr B seems to think that Phoenix Life should have advised him to wait until after his policys 
annual update to claim his pension. But as I understand it that wouldnt be something its 
allowed to do. Giving pensions advice is something thats regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And Phoenix Life Limited doesn't have the FCAs permission to give regulated pension advice. It's a highly specialist area and is not a service all pension 
providers will offer. So, Phoenix Life wasnt in a position to advise Mr B about when was 
likely to be the most opportune time for him to claim his pension. It follows that I don't think 
Phoenix Life did anything wrong in not giving Mr B advice. 
Did Phoenix Life fairly apply tax?
Mr B is not a UK resident and as such is not subject to usual UK taxation rules. He said that 
his accountant wrote to Phoenix Life twice to explain this. But Phoenix Life deducted a 
standard rate of tax from his pension entitlement anyway. I've only seen one letter from 
Mr Bs accountant  not two  on Phoenix Lifes file. And that was simply forwarding Mr Bs 
annuity questionnaire and explaining that Mr B would like to apply for an annuity. That letter 
doesn't mention Mr Bs tax position at all. Mr Bs said that his accountant wrote a second 
letter. But Ive seen no evidence beyond Mr Bs comments that Phoenix Life received that 
letter.
Mr B isn't generally subject to UK taxation legislation. But as I understand it most pensions 
sourced and payable from the UK are subject to UK taxation rules as set out by 
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Thats the case regardless of where the 
recipient of that pension lives. However, if Mr B feels that hes been taxed unfairly he might 
wish to approach HMRC about this.
For completeness I've heard Mr B telling our investigator that Phoenix Life had refused to 
send him a form to claim back tax unless he accepted its offer of compensation. So, Mr B 
seems to think that Phoenix Life is unfairly trying to get him to drop his complaint. And in 
return it will offer him a chance to reclaim the tax deducted from his pension. But I think the 
form that Phoenix Life was referring to wasnt to claim back tax deducted from his pension 
and I think its likely Mr B misunderstood this point. 
It might help if I explain that where, as has happened here, Phoenix Life has calculated 
interest owing because it made a payment to Mr B late (see below) then its required by 
HMRC to take tax off the interest payable. 
In this case Phoenix Life had offered Mr B a payment of around £48 in interest because of its 
delayed payment. That amount was net of tax. So, if Mr B wanted to claim the amount of tax 
Phoenix Life had deducted from that £48 interest calculation, it would send him the form to 
allow him to do that. But that form would only be to reclaim the tax deducted from the £48 
interest payment. It would not be to claim any tax deducted from his pension. But, as Mr B 
didnt accept the offer of compensation and interest, Phoenix Life hasnt actually taken any 
tax from it. So, it didnt send him a form to reclaim something that hasn't been deducted. I 
dont think theres anything wrong with that. 
Did Phoenix Life do everything well?
Mr B has clearly been unhappy with some of Phoenix Lifes service. Some of that was 
outside of its control, for example its not responsible for any delays which occur because of 
postal services. But its acknowledged that Mr B had to endure long wait times with phone 
calls. Its also accepted that it didnt always make calls back that it had promised, And I can 
understand that these dips in the level of service Mr B could have expected would have 
been a source of distress and inconvenience for him. But Phoenix Life has recognised that. 
And to put things right its offered Mr B £120 compensation. I think thats reasonable to 
reflect the trouble and upset Mr B experienced.Further, as I've said above, Phoenix Life has a target of ten working days to process pension 
claims. But, it didnt process Mr Bs claim until the 11th working day. As a result, in line with 
guidance this Service gives, it calculated simple interest at a rate of 8% a year owing on its 
pension payment, to make up for that delay. That sum, after deducting tax was £48.43. I 
think that was a reasonable response to its short delay in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr B hasnt accepted Phoenix Lifes compensation offer to settle the 
complaint. But as I think that offer is reasonable, if he wishes to accept it now he should 
contact Phoenix Life.
My final decision
I dont think Phoenix Life needs to do anything more to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman