DRN-4201407
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him unsuitable investment advice. He says 
he was recommended to invest £100,000 in a medium risk investment and he should have 
only invested £50,000 in a low-risk investment or account.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to everything as if 
its been said by Mr S.
What happened
In March 1990, Mr S sought advice from Barclays. Hed received £151,000 in winnings and 
wanted investment advice. Hed not invested before.
Barclays recommended he invested £100,000 in a Barclays portfolio, split equally between 
fixed interest and various equity-based unit trusts.
Following his complaint, Barclays said it would have been more appropriate for Mr S to have 
invested £75,000, rather than the £100,000 it recommended, to leave him with a larger cash 
reserve. It calculated the position Mr S would have been in had the £25,000 performed in 
line with the Bank of England base rate, rather than being invested in the portfolio. It offered 
to pay Mr S £5,772.06 plus 8% interest. And it paid him £250 compensation for the time it 
took to reply to his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Barclays had provided suitable investment advice and that it should provide compensation 
on the whole amount Mr S invested. She didnt think Mr S wanted to take any risk with his 
capital and that it was fair to use the average rate for fixed rate bonds as the benchmark 
comparison.
Barclays didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Mr S had a considerable level of earnings and his planned expenditure, including a 
possible mortgage, were discussed at length.
The investigators proposed redress reflects that, if hed been given suitable advice Mr S 
would have kept his money on deposit. But the meeting notes from a meeting in 1993 
shows he wouldnt have done this.
Recommending a low-risk portfolio to a first-time investor, including some equities, would 
have been appropriate if the cash reserve was increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about advice given more than 30 years ago. Its not surprising that, 
because of the passage of time, there are limited records available. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When Barclays investigated the complaint, it concluded that it had advised Mr S to invest too 
much and hadnt left him with a large enough cash reserve. I agree. But I dont agree that it 
follows that, had Barclays given suitable advice, Mr S would have invested £75,000 in the 
portfolio. I say this because:
Im not persuaded that a detailed discussion about Mr Ss income and outgoings and 
planned capital expenditure took place, even taking into account that Barclays records may 
not be complete because of the time thats passed.
It seems that Mr Ss priority was to purchase his council house. Whilst he still hadnt 
purchased the house when he met the bank again in 1993, its possible thats because he 
hadnt been given the advice and help he needed in 1990. I can see that in 1993 Barclays 
suggested a repayment mortgage would likely be his best option and that this should be 
explored further. But in 1990, despite Barclays saying that this was discussed at length, 
theres no evidence that a discussion about the alternative means of buying his home was 
discussed, or that he was given information about how to find out more about that.
Mr S said he wanted his investment to generate enough income to meet his expected 
monthly mortgage payments. But, as noted above, a detailed discussion most likely didnt 
take place. This means that the figures Barclays relied on  for the value of the house, the 
amount it would cost him to buy it, the amount of mortgage he would require, and the 
monthly mortgage payments  were all estimates. I cant conclude that enough money was 
set aside to cover the anticipated house purchase, or that the investment would meet his 
income need, when the exact commitment wasnt known.
Barclays recommended a low-risk portfolio. 50% was invested in fixed interest securities and 
50% was invested in a range of unit trusts. Mr S was a first-time investor and, whilst that 
didnt mean it wasnt suitable to recommend an investment with some risk, I would expect 
Barclays to make sure Mr S understood the risks involved. Theres nothing to show how 
Mr Ss attitude to risk was assessed so its difficult to conclude that the portfolio was suitable 
for his risk appetite. And his actions around five to six months later support that he didnt 
understand the risks involved. He wasnt happy that the unit trusts had lost value and 
Barclays noted that, It was quite clear that [Mr S] no longer wished to remain in an equity-
based investment. Had his attitude to risk been discussed in the required level of detail in 
1990, I think its more likely than not that it would have been clear at that stage that equities 
werent suitable for him.
For these reasons, I think its fair that Barclays calculates compensation on the total sum 
invested (£100,000). I agree with our investigator that the average rate from fixed rate bonds 
is the most appropriate measure for calculating the compensation. This doesnt necessarily 
mean I think Mr S would have kept his money on deposit if hed been given suitable advice, 
but Im satisfied its a fair measure in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr S as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
portfolio No longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement *
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Barclays should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman