DRN-3620299
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she lost when she 
fell victim to an investment scam.
Miss C is being represented by a solicitor in her complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns eight transactions totalling just over £7,100 which Miss C made 
using her HSBC debit card over a period of ten days in November-December 2020. She was 
looking for an investment opportunity and reached out to a firm K after coming across it on 
a social media platform. Miss C first sent funds to a cryptocurrency exchange, before 
sending on the converted cryptocurrency to her trading account with K. 
After seeing substantial profits following a few days of trading, Miss C attempted to make a 
withdrawal. Shes said that the last transaction she disputes  for £4,162.02  was a tax 
payment she was told she needed to make to enable the withdrawal. Miss C realised shed 
been scammed when she was unable to make a withdrawal.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C didnt agree with the investigators 
findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. Having done so, I dont uphold 
this complaint for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. The disputed transactions were 
made using Miss Cs legitimate security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Here, the very first transaction in dispute  for £497.42  triggered HSBCs fraud 
detection system and it stopped the payment pending further investigation. There 
were two subsequent attempts, but these were also declined. Miss C contacted 
HSBC to discuss this, and it removed the block after she confirmed it was a genuine 
payment by her. The investigators view was that HSBCs intervention didnt go far 
enough, but its unlikely that further probing would have affected Miss Cs decision-
making. Considering the transaction amount, as well as the fact that a review of 
previous account activity shows several trading or investment-related transactions, it 
could be argued that HSBCs enquiry in that instance was a proportionate response 
to the situation. But even if I were to conclude that it didnt sufficiently question 
Miss C about the payment, like the investigator Im not persuaded it would have led 
to a different outcome. Miss C wasnt cold-called or contacted out of the blue; she 
actively sought this investment opportunity. Weve been told by her representative 
that she researched K, including checking for negative reviews, before agreeing to go 
ahead. I acknowledge that theres no reason why Miss C wouldnt have told HSBC 
how she came to find the opportunity. And as soon as social media was mentioned, I 
would have expected HSBC to have provided a general scam warning (there werent 
any regulator warnings specifically about K at the time). 
But it would still have been for Miss C to carry out due diligence and satisfy herself 
that the opportunity as presented to her was genuine. Based on what we know about 
the independent research she carried out before deciding to invest, the confidence 
Ks popularity gave her (its been noted that it had over 50,000 followers), and the 
fact that the individual she was dealing with was still contactable (weve been told 
she received extensive contact) and therefore could have provided reassurances, Im 
not persuaded a general scam warning would have stopped Miss C from going 
ahead with the payment. And then, as I wouldnt have expected the subsequent 
payments to trigger  given they werent unusual as they were for similar amounts at 
first and later the payee became an established payee  I dont think HSBC could 
have stopped Miss C from going ahead.
Miss C submits that when she contacted HSBC to report the scam, the last payment 
was still pending and she was advised that it wouldnt go through as her debit card 
had been cancelled. I can see that the investigator requested further information from 
both parties about this and ultimately concluded that it did seem like Miss C had been 
misinformed. They also explained that this didnt change the overall outcome here. 
Ive reviewed the available information and I agree with the investigator. It is 
unfortunate that one of HSBCs advisers misinformed Miss C and led her to think the 
last payment could be stopped from being taken. But once a card payment has been 
authorised by the cardholder and approved by the bank, the funds have essentially 
been committed to being spent. All that remains is for the transaction to be posted on 
the cardholders account as soon as the merchant or the retailers bank completes 
settlement (usually a couple of days). It doesnt matter if the card is restricted or 
cancelled after a transaction has been authorised and approved. For all intents and 
purposes, the funds are guaranteed for the merchant that the cardholder has paid. 
In this case, had things gone the way they should have, Miss C would have been told 
in the first instance that it was no longer possible to stop the pending transaction. 
Therefore, the impact here is the loss of expectation. And while I do think that HSBC 
needs to recognise that, I dont consider it fair or reasonable to suggest that it 
honours the misinformation and reimburses Miss C the last payment amount. In one 
of its letters to Miss C in response to her complaint, HSBC recognised it had made a 
mistake and offered £50 compensation. I acknowledge that this amount is nowhere 
near what Miss C thought would be stopped from going out of her account. And I can understand her reasons for declining the offer. But having carefully thought about this 
and keeping in mind the impact of the mistake in question, I think HSBCs offer is fair. 
So, I wont be telling it to pay an increased compensation amount.  
Finally, Ive thought about HSBCs actions in relation to the recovery of funds after it 
was notified of the scam. As these were debit card payments, recovery options would 
be limited to the voluntary chargeback scheme. It is my understanding that Miss C 
sent funds to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange before the cryptocurrency was 
transferred on to the scammer (albeit this wasnt known at the time). In the 
circumstances, Miss C wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim 
because the firm she paid did provide the services as intended (i.e., purchase of 
cryptocurrency). So, I dont think HSBC was under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback dispute for Miss C.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Miss C finds herself, 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold HSBC liable for her financial loss. It did 
make a mistake in the information it provided to her, and Im satisfied it has already offered 
fair compensation in recognition of this. So, I wont be making a further award against 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as HSBC UK 
Bank Plc has already fairly resolved it. Should Miss C accept my decision, it needs to pay 
£50 compensation to her if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman