DRN-4121338
The complaint
X complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, who Ill call Oodle. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint X, but I dont think Oodle have been unreasonable here and Im not 
asking them to take any action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
X acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The finance agreement allowed X to withdraw from it within 14 days but if X chose that 
option hed still be responsible for paying for the car, albeit by other means.
X did have a short term right to reject the car and end the finance agreement within the first 
30 days but only if it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to X. The car here was about five 
years old and had already completed about 88,000 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
Given the short time X had been in charge of the car before he reported problems with it I 
think the onus was on Oodle to demonstrate the car was of satisfactory quality. Im 
persuaded they have provided sufficient evidence that is the case and I say that because:
The independent inspector thought there was a transmission fault and noted 
juddering and jerking when changing gears. He said the issue required further 
investigation under workshop conditions.
The main dealer who subsequently inspected the car was independent of the 
supplying dealership. They did investigate the transmission problems under 
workshop conditions. I note they completed a judder test, that the independent 
inspector wasnt able to complete, and that they noted no fault codes were present. It 
was their expert view that there was no fault with the cars transmission. I think that, 
more detailed inspection, by experts on this make and model of car, is more 
persuasive than the independent inspectors. 
The MOT completed before the car was supplied noted brake discs were worn and 
pitted and as brake judder appears to be related to brake misalignment that seems a 
reasonable explanation of what may have happened. As brakes are a wear and tear 
item it wouldnt be reasonable to suggest that wear made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Theres no corroboration of Xs suggestion the dealership may have repaired the 
problem before referring the car to the main dealer and I therefore dont find that 
argument persuasive.
I dont therefore think I have sufficient evidence that this car was of unsatisfactory quality 
and Im not upholding Xs complaint.
I understand that will put X in a difficult position as hes left the car with the dealership, 
financed an alternative vehicle, and hasnt been paying for this one. I think the guidance set 
out by our investigator in his View of 24 April 2023 was helpful and Id refer X to that as I 
think it may help him moving forward.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman