DRN-3571340
The complaint
Mr D complains about mistakes by Santander UK Plc during an account switch. Mr D says 
Santanders errors led to a loan application being declined.
 
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Santander. In the summer of 2021 Mr D opened a new 
account with another business Ill call B and requested a current account switch be 
completed. 
B contacted Santander and it forwarded information about regular payments, like direct 
debits and standing orders. Mr D says Santander failed to forward information about regular 
income, including his pension, to B during the account switch process. 
The account switch completed and Mr D has told us he applied for a personal loan with B a 
short time later. But the application was declined and Mr D has told us his credit score was 
impacted. Mr D complained to Santander and said its failure to forward income details to B 
during the switch process led to his loan application being declined. Mr D also complained 
that an old direct debit instruction had been included in the account switch. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and said it had followed the correct process when 
closing his account and completing the switch. Santander said there was no evidence that 
Mr Ds pension income hadnt been credited to his account with B following the switch. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They looked 
at information provided by Mr D and Santander and also went on to contact B to ask 
questions about the current account and loan application. B gave information about how it 
the current account application and confirmed it had recorded Mr Ds income as part of the 
process. The investigator didnt think there was evidence to show Santanders approach to 
completing the account switch led to Mr Ds loan application being declined. They also said 
the direct debit instruction had been correctly included in the switch information. 
Mr D asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander says the last time the direct debit instruction Mr D has raised was collected was in 
October 2019. Direct debit instructions are normally deleted if inactive for 13 months, but 
due to the pandemic that period was extended to 24 months. As the account switch took 
place within that timeframe, the direct debit details were included. Im satisfied the direct 
debit information was correctly transferred to B as part of the account switch. 
Mr D says Santander shouldve forwarded information about regular income including his 
pension to B as part of the process. And hes told us a loan application was declined 
because B didnt have that information. But B has sent us information about its approach to 
opening a new account, including how it obtains information about an applicants income. B 
says it obtains income information directly from the customer during the application process, 
not from another source. And B has confirmed it recorded Mr D receives monthly pension 
payments during his account application. 
Mr D has told us his loan application was declined as information about his income wasnt 
forwarded by Santander to B. But I think its fair to say that B is responsible for assessing 
loan applications, including verifying income information provided. And, as noted above, B 
has confirmed it took details of Mr Ds income during the account opening process. 
So whilst I understand Mr Ds concern that Santander didnt forward his income information 
to B, I havent found anything that shows hes been disadvantaged as a result. 
Mr D has told us he had to manually transfer pension payments to his new bank account. 
But Santander has explained that it wouldve forwarded any credits received after the 
account switch to the new bank, along with the information required to amend future 
payment arrangements, in line with its switching standard process. I understand Mr D took 
action and manually transferred his pension payments, but I havent seen anything that 
shows Santander wouldve failed to do so.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but as Im satisfied Santander has dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman