DRN-2564246
The complaint
Mr R complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited registered a fraud prevention 
marker against him without notification or due cause.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties so Im only going to summarise events 
here:
Mr R says Interactive Investor Services unfairly recorded a Cifas marker against him 
following four online account applications he made in March 2013.
On 14 March 2013, Mr R completed an online application for an account with TD 
Direct Investing (Interactive Investor Services purchased TD Direct Investing in 
2017). In this application, Mr R included details of his address. This application was 
declined. Mr R then completed another application on the same day. This time he 
used a different address. Mr R has told us this was the address he was residing at 
with his fianc. This application was also declined. Mr R went on to complete a 
further two applications on the same day. In these final applications, he used the 
same address he used in his first application - which he has told us is the address of 
a property he owned. Mr Rs final two applications were also declined. 
Mr R has told us he wasnt aware of the Cifas marker until a job offer hed been 
made in 2019 was revoked because hed failed the necessary background checks. 
Mr R felt that Interactive Investor Services should have spoken to him prior to the 
Cifas marker being loaded against him  given the significant implications a marker 
of this kind can have. Mr R has told us that had Interactive Investor Services spoken 
to him, he would have been able to explain why two different addresses had been 
used.
Interactive Investor Services has now removed the Cifas marker from Mr Rs record 
but it doesnt feel that the marker was incorrectly loaded against him in 2013.
Mr R bought his complaint to our service because he was unhappy with Interactive 
Investor Services response to his complaint. Hes told us he has lost out on a job 
opportunity and the Cifas marker had other implications too. Because of this Mr R 
feels Interactive Investor Services should pay him compensation.   
Our investigator asked Mr R for some further information about the details he had 
entered into the applications in 2013. He wanted to understand why Mr R had 
entered two different addresses in the first two applications before reverting back to 
the first address for the final two. Our investigator also enquired as to what Mr R had 
planned to do with his account should his application be successful. Finally, our 
investigator asked Mr R to tell him more about the impact the Cifas marker had on 
him and what he would like in terms of compensation. 
Mr R refused to provide any further details other than he had entered two different 
addresses because he owned one property and lived in the other. He didnt tell us 
what he was planning to do with the account, why he completed four applications on 
the same day or answer any of the other questions posed to him.
Unable to gather any further details from Mr R, our investigator assessed the 
complaint based on the limited information they had. Interactive Investor Services 
could also only provide limited information as the Cifas marker had been added so 
long ago and they were no longer required to keep the detailed information that 
would have been required when it was first added. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it for largely the same reasons as those set out by our 
Investigator: 
The marker that Interactive Investor Services applied is for fraud identified during an 
application process - which resulted in the requested account not being opened. For 
Interactive Investor Services to record this type of marker, they dont need to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr R is guilty of a fraud or attempted fraud. But they are expected to 
demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted. In this case, it is expected to demonstrate that it has clear, 
relevant and rigorous evidence to show that material falsehoods were included within the 
application, such that it could confidently report the matter to the police  though this doesnt 
mean they have to make such a report.  
Interactive Investor Services has outlined its position as to why a Cifas marker was recorded 
in 2013  and it has made these reasons known to Mr R. Interactive Investor Services has 
said Mr R made four applications on the same day in March 2013. Two different addresses 
were used in these applications and all four were declined. Interactive Investor Services said 
that using multiple addresses in applications can be indicator that someone is trying to hide 
their financial history (which could be attached to a current or previous address) so it is 
crucial that accurate address information is included in applications so all of the relevant 
checks can be carried out. 
For reasons of his own, Mr R has refused to provide any details about why he chose to enter 
two different address in such a short space of time. He also hasnt told us what he would like 
Interactive Investor Services to do to put things right for him. 
So, like our Investigator, I have to decide this complaint based on the information I have. Ive 
taken into account the reasons Interactive Investor Services has given to support that it was 
reasonable to record a Cifas marker against Mr R, which, taken at face value, seem 
reasonable. And given that Mr R has given me no further information as to why four 
applications were completed on the same day with two different addresses used, I cant say 
that its more likely than not that Mr R mistakenly entered two different addresses - rather 
than he intentionally tried to manipulate the information on the applications to allow for a 
successful application after the decline of the first. I can also understand why this would look suspicious to Interactive Investor Services. It is 
unusual to complete multiple applications with different addresses in such a short timeframe 
 and it would have been reasonable to assume that Mr R wouldve known which address he 
was residing at when the applications were completed. And so I can see why this wouldve 
appeared as an attempt to mislead Interactive Investor Services and without any further 
explanation from Mr R, it wouldnt be fair for me to say Interactive Investor Services acted 
unfairly. 
Mr R as pointed out that Interactive Investor Services should have contacted him to discuss 
the reason for the multiple applications and addresses before they added the Cifas marker 
and he would have been able to offer them a reasonable explanation. But given that Mr R 
has been unable to provide this service with an explanation as to what happened, I see no 
reason to reach the conclusion that he wouldve been able to provide adequate reasoning 
that would have prevented the Cifas marker being added at the time either. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Interactive Investor Services had reasonable 
grounds to apply the Cifas marker when it was applied in 2013 and Im satisfied, on balance, 
it has acted fairly. I wont be directing it to do anything further here. For these reasons, Im 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman