DRN-3284253
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc provided him with a credit account which he 
feels was unaffordable for him at the time that he applied for it.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr J applied for a Capital One credit account. His application was successful, 
and Capital One issued Mr J with a credit account with a credit limit of £1,500.
In August 2021, Mr J raised a complaint with Capital One because he felt that he hadnt 
been able to afford the credit account that Capital One had approved him for, and that this 
should have been apparent to Capital One, had they undertaken checks into his financial 
position before approving the application.
Capital One looked at Mr Js complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks 
into Mr Js financial position, and they felt that thered been nothing resulting from these 
checks that should have given them cause to suspect that Mr J might not have been able to 
afford the credit that he was applying for.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Capital One had acted unfairly or unreasonably by approving Mr Js application for credit, 
and so they also didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
Capital One contend that they did that here. They note that at the point of application they 
took information from Mr J about his personal circumstances and annual income  which Mr 
J declared as being £22,300 per annum  and they used this information in conjunction with 
a model of Mr Js expected outgoings to assess whether Mr J would in all likelihood be able 
to afford the minimum monthly payments that might become due on the account if Mr J used 
the full £1,500 credit amount that would be available to him. And Capital One concluded that 
it was most likely that Mr J would be able to afford those payments. 
Additionally, Capital One confirm that they also obtained information about Mr J from a credit 
reference agency to get a better understanding of his wider financial position. And Capital 
One maintain that there was nothing resulting from these checks which they feel should 
have reasonably given them any cause to suspect that Mr J might not be able to afford the 
credit account that they subsequently approved him for.
Im aware that Mr J feels strongly that his personal circumstances are such that Capital One 
should have asked him more about his expenditure at the time of the application, rather than 
rely on modelled expenditure amounts, which Mr J doesnt believe provide a fair assessment 
of potential expenditure in his particular case. 
I can appreciate Mr Js position here, but credit providers are entitled to use expenditure 
modelling practices when making creditworthiness assessments, as long as such modelling 
is based on reasonable assumptions and data. In this instance, this included an estimate of 
Mr Js housing costs which was based on typical housing costs for people in Mr Js market 
segment, and an estimate of Mr Js non-discretionary spending (food, utilities, clothing, etc) 
which was based on data from the Office of National Statistics. 
Capital Ones methodology here doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and it resulted in Capital 
One concluded that Mr J would most likely have disposable monthly income available to him 
after all outgoings had been accounted for to be able to afford the credit account payments. 
And while it would generally be expected that credit providers would undertake more 
detailed checks as to an applicants financial position in instances where the amount of 
credit under consideration was high, such further checks arent generally required when the 
amount of credit under consideration is relatively low, as was the case in this instance. 
Capital One also reviewed information from a credit reference agency, which detailed Mr Js 
other existing credit commitments at that time as well as showed that Mr J had historically 
had two defaults and two County Court Judgements (CCJs). 
Im aware that Mr J feels that the presence of these defaults and CCJs on his credit file 
should have been an indicator to Capital One that he might have been in financial difficulty. 
But given that all of these defaults and CCJs had occurred over two and a half years prior to 
Mr Js application to Capital One, I dont feel that Capital One acted irresponsibly or unfairly 
towards Mr J by considering his more recent credit history  which didnt include such 
adverse reporting  to be of more relevance. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that by basing a creditworthiness assessment on Mr Js declared 
annual income, reasonably modelled expenditure, and information gathered from Mr Js 
credit file, Capital One did undertake reasonable and proportionate checks into whether Mr J 
would in all likelihood be able to afford the credit account with a £1,500 credit limit before 
approving Mr Js application for that account. 
Of course, this isnt to say that Mr J could afford the credit account that he applied for in April 
2021, but only that Capital One undertook reasonable and proportionate checks into whether 
he could. This is what was required of Capital One here, and I dont feel I can fairly censure 
them for then offering Mr J a credit account in this instance, given the results of the checks 
that they undertook, as described above.
All of which means that I dont feel that Capital One acted unfairly towards Mr J by approving 
him for the credit account that they did, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman