DRN-3596865
The complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) terminated his hire 
purchase agreement early because of missed payments and defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with VFS for a new car in October 2020. By 
September 2021, Mr A missed several payments, and VFS made the decision to terminate 
the finance agreement early.
Mr A told us:
he travelled abroad to visit family and missed a couple of repayments on his credit 
agreement;
sometimes hes unable to access his bank account when hes abroad and hes 
unable to monitor things or transfer money;
VFS said it had tried to contact him about the arrears, but he had no access to his 
mail while he was out of the country;
hed received a telephone call from VFS about the missed payments and had said 
hed call it back and hed forgotten to do so;
hed not been in any financial difficulty; he couldve made the required payments, but 
theres now a default on his file and its affecting his ability to take out further credit;
he wants VFS to re-instate the hire purchase agreement and remove the default from 
his file because he paid the settlement figure.
VFS rejected this complaint. It said when Mr As October 2021 monthly payment was 
returned unpaid, over the following four weeks it sent a number of text messages and a letter 
to Mr A to advise him of the arrears and ask him to contact it.
VFS says Mr A then missed his November 2021 monthly payment so it issued him with a 
Notice of Sums in Arrears and then several weeks later it sent him another letter to advise 
him of the total arrears on the account.
It says in January 2022 it wrote to Mr A again to notify him of the arrears that had accrued, 
and then a short time later it issued a Notice of Default. VFS says this Notice told Mr A that 
he needed to clear the arrears by 25 January or contact it to discuss his options. It explained 
that in the absence of either of these happening, VFS could terminate the agreement.
VFS says once the Notice had expired at the end of January, a specialist team telephoned 
Mr A but was told by him that it wasnt a convenient time for him to have a conversation 
about the arrears and he  Mr A  would telephone VFS the following day. A week later, 
having had no contact from Mr A, VFS terminated the agreement and notified Mr A of this.
VFS says the termination is irreversible and will show on Mr As credit file for up to six years. 
But it confirmed subsequently that as Mr A had settled the account in full in April 2022, the 
default would be marked as having been satisfied.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
detailed the payments that Mr A had made and missed from May 2021 onwards and 
explained that by the end of November 2021, Mr As account was three months in arrears.
Our investigator said hed considered the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and was satisfied that VFS had issued the default notice in accordance 
with the requirements set out under the Consumer Credit Act (1974) as well as the FCAs 
guidance. He said he thought VFS had acted fairly and he could understand why it had 
taken the action it had, and he wouldnt be asking it to do anything else.
Mr A disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
The Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that its necessary for a creditor to serve a default 
notice before it can become entitled to terminate the agreement, demand early repayment, 
or recover possession of any goods.
VFS sent a default notice to Mr A on 6 January 2022, and it wasnt until 11 February that it 
terminated the agreement, which meets the requirement stipulated in the Act - a creditor 
must give at least 14 days notice before any action is taken in relation to a default notice.
Mr As complaint is essentially about how he was treated by VFS when he missed several 
monthly payments due under his hire purchase agreement. The rules and guidance relevant 
to Mr As agreement are set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit handbook (CONC). For 
ease of reference, Ive highlighted some of these below.
CONC 7.3.4R states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G explains that examples of 
forbearance could include deferment of payment of arrears or accepting token 
payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to recover. 
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm 
should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. 
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must not take disproportionate action against a 
customer in arrears or default. 
CONC 3.3.1R states that communications from firms must be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Now I accept that Mr A doesnt agree but, having considered what both parties have said 
and submitted, Im satisfied that VFS acted in line with the requirement to treat customers in 
arrears fairly. In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard to the fact that:VFS tried to engage with Mr A on a number of occasions and through a number of 
mediums  it sent SMS messages, it sent letters and when it received no response to 
these, it telephoned him. And although Mr A said hed telephone VFS the following 
day, he didnt.
It was only after Mr A fell more than £1,000 into arrears that VFS issued a Notice of 
Default, and this was only after receiving no response from Mr A about the arrears 
and missed payments.
Once the Notice of Default had expired, VFS didnt seek to terminate the agreement 
for nearly three weeks, during which time it attempted to contact Mr A, but to no avail.
Although it terminated the finance agreement and marked the default on Mr As credit 
file, it correctly updated his file to show that the default had been satisfied once Mr A 
had settled the outstanding amount.
While I can understand that Mr A will have been distracted by his situation whilst abroad and 
may not have received some of the communications from VFS, I am unaware of him acting 
to ensure that VFS was made aware of the situation  he didnt contact it upon his return to 
the UK to remedy the arrears. And because of this, VFS was dealing with increased arrears 
and zero contact from Mr A.
Finally, Ive also considered Mr As comments about his credit file. But I have to tell him that 
VFS was legally obliged to accurately report these things to the credit reference agencies. 
The credit file correctly reported a default, and because the outstanding amount due under 
the agreement was repaid, the default shows as having been settled. So, I cant ask VFS to 
amend the credit file because I dont think its done anything wrong. And I dont think it needs 
to do anything more.
Ive noted Mr As concerns that his credit rating has been affected. He says its having an 
effect on his ability to secure a new mortgage. But I cant say with any certainty that the 
arrears and Notice of Default on this hire purchase agreement are the sole reason for this.
Mr A might, however, be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his 
credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity, in this case 
Mr A, to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take 
into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, Mr A should 
contact the credit reference agencies directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman