DRN-3562549
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was misled by an out of date advert which Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited (trading as Very) had published on its website, about a promotion which 
had expired.
What happened
On 24 November 2021 Mr L placed an order for a fridge freezer via Verys website, and paid 
for it with credit provided by Very. He says he had shopped around looking at other fridge 
freezers, but he was induced to buy this one because of a promotional offer he had seen on 
Verys website. The offer said that if he bought a qualifying appliance from a certain 
manufacturer, then he could claim up to £150 cashback, or £200 worth of goods from a third 
party.
The fridge freezer was delivered on 20 December. The next day, Mr L phoned Very to find 
out how to claim the cashback. He says he was told to contact the manufacturer directly, and 
that he would definitely be able to claim it on their website. However, this proved to be 
wrong, as his purchase was not eligible. That was because the terms of the promotion said 
that it only applied to orders placed on or before 19 October, and the cashback had to be 
claimed on or before 16 December 2021. Mr L had missed both of these deadlines.
Mr L complained to Very that the advert had been misleading, because it implied that the 
promotion was still open, when in fact by the time he placed his order it was already closed. 
He said that the terms setting out the dates during which the promotion had been running 
were in a small font, which was difficult to read on his mobile phone (which he had used 
when selecting and ordering his purchase). The headline offering £150 cashback or £200 in 
products was in a much larger font, and this was what had induced him to choose the fridge 
freezer he had purchased instead of another one. He argued that once a promotion has 
closed, an advert for it should be taken down.
Very did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it was not responsible for the promotion or the 
terms on which it was offered, as it had been a third partys promotion. It said that what its 
call handler had said on the phone was not a guarantee that the promotion would be 
honoured. But as a gesture of good will, it paid him a refund of ten percent of the purchase 
price, of £64.99.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr L brought this complaint to our service. But our 
investigator did not uphold it. He thought that the advert had been clear about the dates, and 
not misleading. Although Mr L had been told something else on the phone, as the text of the 
advert was clear he did not think that it was superseded by the phone call.
Mr L said that the small print about the dates of eligibility was almost impossible to read on a 
phone screen. He asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it.
There is a dispute about whose website the advert was published on. Mr L insists that it was 
on Verys website. Very denies this, and says the advert only appeared on the 
manufacturers own website, and so Very is not responsible for it. More than a year later, 
I have no way of checking who is right. But even if I assume that Mr L is right and that Very 
published the advert, I still would not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have seen a screenshot of the advert, and I can see Mr Ls point about the different font 
sizes. The headline is in a large eye-catching font, and underneath that the dates during 
which the promotion was running, and when the cashback has to be claimed, are given in a 
much smaller font. I accept that the small print might have been difficult to read on a mobile 
phone screen. And the promotion had already ended by the time Mr L saw this advert, but 
he didnt notice that when he placed his order. So I can appreciate why he has complained.
However, I cannot accept that Mr L didnt know that the small print was there, or that there 
were terms of eligibility which he would need to check to see if his purchase qualified. I say 
that for two reasons.
Firstly, even if the small print was difficult to read on a small screen, it would still have been 
clear to Mr L that it was there. It is immediately below the headline, and not, for example, 
further down where customers would have to scroll down to find it and so might not realise it 
is there.
Secondly, the headline makes it clear that the promotion did not apply to all purchases. It 
says, in a large font that Mr L says he could easily read:
Claim up to £150 Cashback
or £200 of Gousto boxes
with selected Hisense appliances
The word selected means that not every appliance would qualify for the promotion, and so 
it would be necessary to read further to find out whether Mr Ls chosen product would be 
eligible or not. As Mr L has told us that the promotion influenced his choice of product, it 
must have been important to him to find out whether his choice was covered. The most 
obvious place to look for that information would have been in the small print immediately 
below, which he could have magnified until it was readable by zooming in on it.
In fact, if Mr L had done that, he actually wouldnt have found out if his chosen product was 
covered or not, because that paragraph doesnt say which appliances were included in the 
promotion. But he would have seen that the promotion had already closed, because the 
deadlines are set out there very clearly.
For these reasons I am satisfied that the advert (assuming that it was Verys) was not really 
unclear or misleading such that I should uphold Mr Ls complaint about it.
While it is unfortunate that Verys call handler told Mr L that he could definitely claim the 
cashback from the manufacturer, the call handler also made it clear that the cashback had to be claimed from a third party and not from Very. So I am not entirely persuaded that Mr L 
was seriously misled by what he was told on the phone, when he knew by then that he was 
going to have to claim the cashback from someone else. He certainly could not have been 
misled for very long. But even if I took a different view about that, the phone call did not 
affect the outcome, because Mr Ls purchase was already ineligible before he picked up the 
phone, so it caused him no financial loss and not enough distress to merit financial 
compensation. (And even if I took a different view about that, I would have said that £64.99 
would have been fair compensation for it.)
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman