Page 1 of 2The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund a transaction he says 
he didnt make and doesnt recognise.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr M contacted Barclays to report a transaction that he didnt recognise. 
Barclays didnt refund the money. It said that the transaction had been made via the online 
application (app) on Mr Ms registered mobile device using his usual IP address. It also 
confirmed that Mr Ms debit card details were used to set up the transaction and that the 
application had been accessed via a passcode. As Mr M had told Barclays that no one else 
had access to his phone, debit card or passcode, it couldnt see how his account had been 
compromised. 
Mr M wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened but didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong. As 
Mr M was still unhappy, he asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time.
The key consideration for me is whether I think its likely Mr M made the transaction himself 
(or allowed someone to do it on his behalf) or whether it was likely done by someone else 
without his knowledge  and by extension, whether its fair for Barclays to hold him liable for 
the transaction.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr M made the disputed transaction himself or 
authorised it to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask Barclays to refund it.
However, Mr M says he was not involved in the payment in dispute.
DRN-4053471Page 2 of 2Having looked at the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. I 
will explain why.
Ive seen the electronic records which shows that Mr Ms registered device was used
to make the disputed transactions.
The transaction was made via Mr Ms online banking app, where a 5 digit passcode
was entered. This was a passcode set up by Mr M when he registered the app. Mr M
has told us that no one else knew this passcode.
Barclays have also provided the internet banking login history which shows that the
IP address used was a known IP address, that had previously been used to make
undisputed transactions.
A new payee was created, which meant that Mr Ms long card number, expiry date
and CV2 code (three-digit security number on the back of the card) was input to set
this up. Mr M has told us that his card was with him at the time and that the card
details were not known to anyone else.
Mr M has said that he received no phising emails, calls or texts around the time of
the disputed transaction and Barclays have said that there is no evidence of third-
party involvement.
Whoever completed the payment instruction, would have had to have been able to obtain his 
device, debit card details and know Mr Ms banking passcode to get access to his app. As 
Mr M has said that no-one else had access to the device and card or knew his passcodes, I 
dont see how the transaction could have been made by someone else. 
Having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more likely than 
not that Mr M made the transaction himself. I realise this is not the outcome Mr M was 
hoping for, but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here. This means that 
Mr M can be held responsible for the transaction. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably 
require Barclays to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
Sarah Green
Ombudsman