DRN-2083408
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in 2009 in connection with a mortgage hed taken out in 2007. The 
policy provided cover for Mr D if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt agree with 
the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Ds needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr D the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr D is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr D suggests Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, and said 
he wouldnt get the loan he wanted if he didnt take the cover. Ive noted everything Mr D has 
said.
But it seems Mr Ds mortgage was arranged in 2007. He didnt take out the PPI until 2009. 
Mr Ds borrowing was already in place, so I think he wouldve understood that the PPI wasnt 
a condition of getting the loan.
Halifax has also provided a copy of the Demands and Needs Statement that was completed 
for Mr D before he bought the policy. This suggests there was a discussion between Mr D 
and Halifax about his circumstances, and the PPI was identified as useful cover for him. 
So without anything else to support what Mr D has told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr D to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr D was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr D says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings. But the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to Mr Ds employer benefits. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr 
D could use his employer benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. So I think 
the policy wouldve been useful to him, despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr D wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- The PPI cost was set out in the Demands and Needs Statement referred to above. 
So I think Mr D wouldve known how much he would be paying for the policy and 
found it acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I think it unlikely Mr D would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr D would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman