DRN-3344479
The complaint
Miss B, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. Had Morses carried out 
proportionate checks it wouldve realised these loans werent affordable for her.
What happened
Miss B was advanced, by Morses, at least four collected loans between November 2013 and 
August 2014. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
9 £1,200.00 06/11/2013 27/08/2014 50 £42.00
10 £700.00 04/07/2014 sold 50 £24.50
11 £600.00 27/08/2014 sold 50 £21.00
12 £500.00 27/08/2014 27/08/2016 50 £17.50
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week increased, for example when loans 9 and 10 were 
running at the same time Miss Bs weekly commitment to Morses was £66.50. 
The numbering of the loans is based on Morses table that it provided the
Financial Ombudsman, and which was used by the adjudicator in the assessment. Its likely 
Miss B had 8 further loans preceding loan 9 in the table above.
Morses has told us it is likely these earlier loans were provided by a different company. This 
other company was acquired by Morses in March 2014, and it only took responsibility for any 
loans that were still active at the time of purchase. Therefore, this decision will only be able 
to deal with the loans listed in the table above.
Following Miss Bs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold her complaint. Miss Bs representative didnt accept the outcome and 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said, Morses had made a 
reasonable decision to provide loan 9. However, he thought from loan 10 Morses needed to 
have carried out more in-depth checks but he hadnt seen anything to suggest loans 10  12 
were unaffordable for Miss B. Finally, he didnt think the pattern of lending was harmful for 
Miss B. 
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Bs representative didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It also provided a full copy of Miss Bs credit report which was generated in 
January 2022. 
The adjudicator went back to Miss Bs representative and explained that the credit report 
provided hadnt changed his mind about the outcome he reached as there wasnt enough 
detail contained within it about Miss Bs credit commitments at the time these loans were 
approved.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss B could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss B was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.
Firstly, as some of these loans were approved by a company which Morses took over and 
the amount of time that has passed since the lending was granted some of the information 
that would ordinarily be available  such as credit results - is no longer available. Therefore, this decision is based on the information that I do have to hand and what I think is most likely 
to have happened. 
Loan 9
For this loan Miss B wouldve likely declared to Morses what her weekly income and weekly 
expenditure wouldve been. However, the information that Miss B wouldve declared to 
Morses is no longer available and this is due to Morses data retention policy. So, I dont 
know the exact amounts she declared. Equally, Miss B hasnt been able to show us what her 
weekly income and expenditure was at this time. 
I think it is unlikely Morses wouldve approved a loan with weekly repayments that it knew to 
be unaffordable based on the income and expenditure information that was likely provided. 
However, at this point in the lending relationship I think asking Miss B for details of her 
income and expenditure wouldve, as far as Im concerned amounted to a proportionate 
check. 
It is also possible, that for this loan some sort of credit check was carried out  but again, 
due to how long ago this loan was approved Morses doesnt have a record of any results 
that it may have received. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Bs complaint about this loan. 
Loans 10  12
Morses says for these loans that it carried out the same sort of checks as it had done so for 
loan 9. And like loan 9 I dont know what information it collected about Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. 
Given what we know, it looks like, for these loans Miss Bs income may have been checked 
with a credit reference agency and/or further credit searches carried out. However, for the 
reasons Ive outlined above, no further information is available.  
But notwithstanding my concerns about whether or not a credit search was carried out I dont 
think relying on what Miss B declared about her income and expenditure wouldve been 
sufficient for these loans. This has led me to conclude Morses didnt carry out a 
proportionate check. 
By loan 10 Miss B was returning for another fairly large loan, to be repaid over another year 
and with commitments still due to Morses for loan 9 meant that shed be committed to 
spending over £60 per week to service her two loans with Morses, a not insignificant sum. 
Her indebtedness (and weekly repayments) were increasing in a way that couldve been 
harmful for her. This ought to have prompted Morses to have carried out further checks. 
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Bs actual financial position to 
ensure loans 10 - 12 were affordable for her. This couldve been done in several ways, such 
as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at Miss Bs bank statements.
The further checks mightve helped verify Miss Bs declared income and expenditure and 
possibly revealed whether there was any other information that Morses mightve needed to 
consider about Miss Bs financial position. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the complaint about 
these loans, I would have to be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it 
wouldve likely discovered that Miss B couldnt afford these loans. Miss Bs representative was asked to provide copies of Miss Bs bank statements  these 
werent provided but a copy of her full credit file which was produced in January 2022 was 
provided. 
Ive considered this credit report carefully but unfortunately, it doesnt assist me in trying to 
establish Miss Bs credit commitments (or overall financial position) at the time of these 
loans. This is because data is usually removed from the credit file after six years, and these 
loans were granted more than six years ago  so information from around the time these 
loans were advanced is limited.  
I can see from the start date of some of the other credit accounts that Miss B likely had some 
outstanding credit commitments at the time but I cant be sure for most of the accounts what 
balance she had at the time and how much she was committed to paying these creditors 
each month. 
Therefore, as it stands, and based on the information that Ive been given Im not accurately 
able to determine what Miss Bs financial position was at the time these loans were granted. 
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further 
checks wouldve led it to believe these loans were unaffordable for Miss B. Im therefore 
concluding it was reasonable of Morses to provide this lending. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman