DRN-3281066
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax charged him for 
withdrawing cash from his credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this matter are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr G wanted to withdraw cash from his credit card to put it in his current account. As 
credit card cash advances arent offered at the counter staff werent able to assist. 
They directed him to the ATM to make a cash withdrawal. Mr G wasnt explicitly told 
at that time that interest would be charged. However I dont find that the staff in 
branch erred in not specifically mentioning to Mr G that there would be a charge. He 
didnt ask about it and he was able to withdraw the cash he wanted.
Im satisfied that its clearly stated in the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account that 
there would be a charge. I accept that Mr G may not have read the terms but I cant 
say that this means Halifax has done anything wrong. I note too that his statements 
also show there will be a charge for cash withdrawals. Charging for cash withdrawals 
from credit cards in the UK is commonplace, and I see that Mr G has made cash 
withdrawals previously. 
Mr G has said that with other credit cards a warning appears when the card is 
entered into the ATM. Additionally he comments that the charges dont appear 
immediately. I do take the point that Mr G makes, but this service cant tell a financial 
business how to run its processes. Overall, Im satisfied that sufficient notice of 
charges was given in the account terms and conditions.
I appreciate that the charges added to Mr Gs account for these withdrawals add to 
his overall debt, but in order for me to require Halifax to remove the charges Id need 
to find that theyd been wrongly applied in the first place. I havent disregarded that 
there was a special marker on Mr Gs account, but as I cant say the charges were 
wrongly applied, there is no basis on which I could require Halifax to remove them. I 
note that Mr G has raised other matters about Halifax, this decision focuses on this 
matter only.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman