DRN-4194885
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled his 
travel insurance claim. 
All references to Mr H include any submissions made by Mrs M. 
What happened
Mr H bought a travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. He travelled with Mrs M.
Whilst abroad, Mr H needed emergency medical treatment. He contacted Great Lakes to 
start a claim and following his discharge from hospital, he needed to extend his stay and 
asked Great Lakes to arrange this as well as flights home. But he wasnt happy with the way 
Great Lakes handled matters. 
Mr H complained and Great Lakes apologised for its delays in settling the claim and the way 
it handled things. 
Unhappy, Mr H referred his complaint to this Service as he wanted compensation for his loss 
of earnings and the distress and inconvenience he had suffered.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended £150 compensation. Mr H 
didnt think this was enough as it didnt account for his loss of earnings and his injury. He 
referred to our compensation guidelines. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 June 2023 in which I said:
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld but I think Great Lakes 
should pay £750 compensation for the significant distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr H. Ill explain why. 
The facts of this case are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Great Lakes accepts it provided a poor service and Mr H is unhappy with the level of 
compensation recommended by our investigator. So my decision will focus on the 
key outstanding issues to determine a fair compensation award. 
As the investigator has already identified, the relevant rules and industry guidelines 
say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
I cant consider the distress caused to Mrs M as she isnt an insured person on the 
policy. 
Mr H claimed for loss of earnings. He says Great Lakes delayed in obtaining a fit to 
fly certificate which delayed his return. In addition, he says due to the delay, his leg 
was starting to repair incorrectly, and he is still receiving treatment for the knock-on 
effects of the delay. 
Im sorry to hear of Mr Hs experience. But I dont think Great Lakes can be held 
responsible for Mr Hs loss of earnings as it had to wait for a fit to fly note before 
arranging suitable flights. There is no evidence that the delay in receiving the fit to fly 
certificate was down to Great Lakes. It was waiting for the treating doctor to provide 
this and couldnt arrange return flights until it had received this. 
There is also no evidence that Mr Hs injury was exacerbated by anything Great 
Lakes did and Ive already concluded the delay in obtaining the fit to fly certificate 
cant be attributed to Great Lakes. 
Mr H says he has medical evidence to show his ankle hasnt repaired properly. But 
Great Lakes isnt responsible for the medical treatment Mr H received abroad. And I 
havent seen any direct link between Great Lakes actions and the delay in Mr H 
receiving treatment. So I cant award compensation for this. 
Great Lakes accepted its service fell below a reasonable standard. 
In deciding the level of award, in particular, Ive found clear evidence of the following:
Mr H and his partner sent numerous emails chasing Great Lakes for a 
response in relation to accommodation for Mr H once he was discharged from 
hospital. 
Great Lakes could have called the hotel reception back once the call was cut 
off and could have used telephone calls more often to speed the process up. 
Great Lakes made a mistake when booking a taxi in the UK for Mr Hs return 
which arrived at the wrong airport. 
Great Lakes didnt provide adequate assurances or responses to Mr Hs 
concerns about him flying in economy due to his height and the need to lie 
down. And also that he needed his partner to assist him. They sourced 
suitable flights themselves which Great Lakes agreed to reimburse. 
Great Lakes took too long to settle the claim once Mr H provided receipts and 
he had to repeatedly chase. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think £750 compensation for the distress 
caused is the fair and reasonable outcome in this case. This is because Mr H was 
already dealing with a difficult situation which was exacerbated by the stress and 
inconvenience in having to chase Great Lakes to arrange accommodation and flights. 
I think the prolonged wait on the day of discharge and the email exchange about 
suitable seats added to his stress and frustration. 
In addition, his arrival in the UK caused further stress and frustration due to problems 
with the taxi. 
I think Great Lakes could have alleviated some of the distress and inconvenience set 
out above and for that, I think £750 is appropriate. This also takes into account the 
length of time it took Great Lakes to settle the claim and that overall, these issues werent long lasting, so I dont think a higher award is justified. 
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr H and Mrs M did and said that 
they both had separate insurance policies with Great Lakes at the same time and Mrs M has 
several health conditions and suffered significant distress, frustration and inconvenience as 
a result of Great Lakes failings.
As set out above, I have considered the chasing, delays and mistakes made by Great Lakes 
in total. But Mrs M is not an eligible complainant in relation to this complaint as Mr Hs policy 
only covers him. The claim was made as a result of Mr Hs hospitalisation and although Mrs 
M has a separate insurance policy, I can only consider Mr Hs policy in this decision. So I 
can only ask Great Lakes to make a payment to Mr H.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to pay Mr H £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman