DRN-2593901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about how ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) dealt with their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to ERV includes reference to its agents. 
Mr and Mrs S made a separate complaint about the sale of the policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in May 2019, Mr and Mrs S took out an annual, multi-trip travel 
insurance policy with ERV. The policy started on 27 May 2019 and ended on 26 May 2020. 
The cover was for Mr and Mrs S and their daughter and included winter sports cover.  
The start of Mr and Mrs S ski trip in February 2020 was delayed because of adverse 
weather conditions. Mr and Mrs S claimed against their policy for unused elements of 
their trip and additional travel costs. ERV settled their claim in part. Mr and Mrs S werent 
happy about the settlement amount or the time it took ERV to deal with their claim, so 
they pursued their complaint. 
The facts which led to the complaint are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons 
for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that ERV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy, the relevant 
part of which says:
Section 5 Travel Delay
What is covered
We pay up to [] £50 for the first full 12 hours then £10 for each following full 12 
hour period thereafter, up to a total of £1,500 for Comprehensive cover if the 
intended departure of your first outward [] flight [] is delayed as a direct result of 
[] adverse weather conditions []
Its not in dispute that an insured event happened here. One of the issues I must 
determine in this case is whether ERV treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and reasonably in 
declining part of their claim. I think it did and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S policy doesnt cover every cost they may incur following an insured 
event. Their policy doesnt cover unused elements of their trip or additional travel 
costs. The fact that the policy type on Mr and Mrs S validation certificate is referred 
to as Annual Multi Trip Comprehensive doesnt alter that: the terms and conditions 
of the policy still determine the extent of the cover.
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mr and Mrs S policy and ERV isnt obliged to 
settle the part of their claim in relation to unused elements of their trip or additional 
travel costs. I dont think I can fairly direct ERV to settle elements of Mr and Mrs S 
claim not covered in the policy.
Mr and Mrs S are also concerned about the time taken by ERV to deal with their 
claim. Ive looked at the chronology of the claim. I agree with the investigator that 
there were some delays. Mr and Mrs S made their claim on 25 February 2020 and 
ERV confirmed part payment of the claim on 23 March 2020. Also, ERV made an 
error in requesting information from Mr and Mrs S daughter, rather than                   
Mr and Mrs S. 
The Covid-19 pandemic wasnt the cause of Mr and Mrs S claim but affected ERVs 
ability to deal with their claim in the usual way. It apologised for that and I think thats 
sufficient in this case. Considering everything, I dont think that ERV needs to do any 
more in relation to this part of Mr and Mrs S claim. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman