DRN-4052267
The complaint
Ms S complains that Oplo PL Ltd loaded a fraud marker against her on the National Fraud 
Database. Shed like the marker removed and compensation for the impact caused to her. 
What happened
In October 2022 Ms S made a loan application with Oplo. As part of the application Ms S 
provided a payslip to Oplo which they believed had been altered. And they decided to load a 
negative marker on the National Fraud Database. 
Ms S wasnt happy with Oplos decision to load the marker, and complained to Oplo. 
Oplo reviewed their decision but thought theyd acted fairly in loading the marker. 
Ms S wasnt happy with their response so brought her complaint to our service. She 
explained that because of the marker being loaded against her she's been unable to get a 
mortgage, had two bank accounts closed and had to take time off work to resolve the 
complaint. 
In January 2023 Oplo made the decision to remove the negative fraud marker against Ms S. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ss complaint and thought Oplo didnt act fairly in 
loading the marker against Ms S. in summary, they thought Oplo should have done more to 
investigate prior to loading the negative marker against Ms S. And if theyd done so Oplo 
wouldnt have made the decision to load the marker. Our investigator recommended Ms S 
be compensated £500 for the impact of the marker on her. 
Nether Ms S or Oplo accepted our investigators recommendation. Ms S asked for a higher 
level of compensation, and said:
Oplo breached GDPR
They didnt respond to her subject access request
She took 16 days unpaid leave
She was pre-approved for a mortgage interest rate of 3.9% however was only able to 
secure 4.74%
Ms S asked for a total of £15,120 compensation. 
In summary Oplo said:
The Payslip didnt match the formatting they expected, or have the logo of the 
expected organisation Ill call N
The basic pay didn't match the hourly rate
They believe theyve met the pillars to load a National Fraud Marker
As neither party agreed, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
On picking up the case I contacted both parties and explained my thoughts on the outcome 
of the case. I explained to Oplo why I didnt think theyd met the threshold to load a marker, 
and to Ms S what she needed to provide to evidence greater impact on her from the marker. 
Oplo didnt accept my thoughts. In response they reiterated they thought theyd met the bar 
to load a negative marker. And therefore they didnt think any compensation was due. 
Ms S responded to say she didnt have any further evidence to provide. She highlighted that 
it wasnt possible for her to get evidence that her mortgage was rejected because of the 
fraud marker  as mortgage providers dont specify why they reject applications. 
As neither party agreed Ive proceeded to issue my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo have removed the marker against Ms S. However, the business didnt accept they 
acted unfairly in initially recording the marker against Ms S. So, Ill need to consider whether 
Oplo acted fairly in initially recording the marker against Ms S. 
The marker that Oplo have filed is intended to record that Ms S has committed application 
fraud  relating to deliberately supplying fraudulent documentation in order to open an 
account. In order to file such a marker, Oplo arent required to prove beyond reasonable 
doubt that Ms S is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are 
grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The relevant rules say:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
Secondly, Oplo will need to have strong evidence to show that Ms S was deliberately 
dishonest in their actions. To meet the standard of proof required to register a marker, the 
business must carry out checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This 
should include giving the account holder the opportunity to explain any information provided 
on account application to understand their level of knowledge and intention. 
 
Having considered the relevant pillars and standard of proof, I'm not satisfied Oplo 
had reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime had been 
attempted. Nor do I think the evidence is clear, relevant or rigorous.
I appreciate Oplo may had concerns about the information supplied by Ms S in her payslip, 
but in my opinion this isnt sufficient to meet the burden of proof to load a marker. Instead I'm 
satisfied Oplo should have carried out further due diligence and contacted Ms S, or any 
other relevant third party including her employer. I think if this had happened Ms S would 
likely have provided further evidence to show the payslip was genuine. And Oplo would have 
been satisfied the payslip provided hadnt been altered. 
For this reason I'm satisfied Oplo shouldn't have loaded the fraud marker against Ms S. It 
follows I'll need to consider the impact on Ms S.
Subject Access Request (SAR)Ms S advised she applied for a SAR in January 2023 and Oplo didn't respond. Ms S advised 
she raised a complaint with Oplo and provided our service with the response. However, if 
Ms S wishes to pursue her complaint about the SAR not being provided to her by Oplo this 
will need to be raised as a separate complaint with our service. 
Compensation 
   
Our investigator recommended that Oplo compensate Ms S £500. Ms S has advised shed 
been applying for Mortgages since October 2022, and thinks these were declined because 
of the fraud marker. I agree, it's likely a fraud marker would have a negative impact on 
Ms Ss ability to obtain a mortgage - however for me to compensate Ms S directly for this 
loss Id need evidence from her mortgage broker, or potential mortgage provider, which 
outlined the reason the applications were declined was due to the fraud marker. And, Id 
need to see the details of the interest rates offered to her at the time, and whats shes been 
given now. Im afraid I havent seen this information  and therefore I cant say Ms S has 
directly lost out financially by not obtaining a mortgage with a lower interest rate. 
However, I am satisfied that Ms S did suffer inconvenience from the loading of the marker, 
including having two bank accounts closed and experiencing distress which negatively 
impacted on her ability to work.   
 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think £500 is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms S. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Oplo PL ltd to:
Pay Ms S £500 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman