DRN-4309572
The complaint
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited. He says it provided poor 
service when he contacted it after his car broke down.
What happened
Mr D called esure on 3 October 2022 to get his car recovered, relying on the breakdown 
policy he thought hed bought with the motor policy. He said it needed recovery due to a 
breakdown. esure arranged the recovery, but later that day it said Mr D didnt have 
breakdown cover, and that it had made an error in assisting him. Mr D said he asked about 
car hire during this call and was told he had cover for it. He didnt accept that he had no 
breakdown cover, so he complained formally to esure on 6 October 2022. He said esure 
hadnt sent him the policy documents and he was unable to access its online portal. He 
asked for urgent advice about hire and about what would now happen to the car.
esure didnt reply to Mr D until 22 December 2022, when it issued its final response letter. It 
said hed selected breakdown cover on the comparison website hed used initially, but that 
he didnt check that his request had carried over to esures website. It agreed to cover the 
cost of the breakdown anyway, but it said electrical and mechanical faults werent covered 
by the policy, so Mr D would have to pay for any other costs relating to the car. Meanwhile, 
Mr D had continued to pay his premiums and road tax and had also paid for car hire.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint. She asked esure for information, 
including call recordings, but it didnt reply. So she had to base her opinion on the limited 
information available. She noted that esure had paid the recovery costs, and that Mr D 
wasnt entitled to car hire under the policy. She said he was obliged to pay for his car to be 
taxed and insured unless it was off the road or disposed of and the policy was cancelled. But 
she thought esure had provided poor service by not telling him promptly that he didnt have a 
valid claim. Due to that delay, she thought it should pay Mr D £300 compensation. 
Mr D said esure should have made an instant decision and that had he been told the claim 
wasnt valid at the start hed have cancelled the policy and scrapped the car then. So he 
would have avoided running up costs. He didnt think £300 compensation was enough. As 
the investigators view didnt change, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision along the following lines:
I said the poor service Mr D told us about that happened after esure had issued its 
final response letter would have to be raised by him with esure as a separate 
complaint. I said if he wasnt happy with its response, he could then complain to us.
My view was that Mr D should have checked that all the correct details carried over 
to esures website. But I said esure had a chance to put things right three days later, 
when he made a formal complaint. I thought its failure to respond was due to human 
error, not a deliberate ploy by esure to avoid losing his custom, as hed suggested.
I said that without the call recordings, I had no reason to doubt that Mr D told esure at 
the start the car had broken down (so he should have been told then he didnt have 
a valid claim) or that he was told he had cover for hire. I noted that hed asked for 
urgent advice on 6 October 2022 about hire and about the car, but he had to wait 
two and a half months for a reply. In the meantime hed run up costs in the mistaken 
belief he had a valid claim, having emailed esure in November 2022 to alert it to the 
hire costs hed run up, but not having got a reply. 
I said I thought it likely that Mr D would have cancelled the policy and scrapped the 
car at the start had he been given the right advice. So I thought esure should pay 
him compensation for the delay in telling him he didnt have a valid claim. I noted 
that Mr D was told initially he had hire cover  but not that was only in limited 
circumstances, that didnt apply at the time. As esure didnt clarify the facts I said I 
thought it would be fair for it to refund the cost of hire until 22 December 2022.
Once Mr D had esures final response letter, I said I thought it should have been 
clear to him that he didnt have a valid claim. I said he could have contacted esure if 
he wasnt sure. He could then have cancelled the policy and scrapped the car in 
December 2022 and put its scrap value towards a replacement vehicle. His 
premiums would have stopped, and he could have applied for a road tax refund, 
whilst not hiring any further cars or running up any further costs.  
Mr D told us he didnt contact esure as he didnt have possession of the car and he  
thought the recovery agent still had to be paid. He also said he thought he might 
have lost all his rights (including the right to complain to us) had he cancelled the 
policy. I noted that he didnt query any of these assumptions at the time. He told us 
hed continue to hire cars until he got a payment from esure for his car. I pointed out 
that he wasnt going to get a payment from it, as he never had a valid claim on the 
policy. I also said that although I thought esure should pay him compensation, Mr D 
had a duty to minimise his outgoings / losses, including the cost of hire.
I said I didnt think it was reasonable for Mr D not to contact esure after he got its final 
response letter for any clarification he thought was necessary on the points above. 
Instead, he allowed the situation to continue and carried on hiring cars - without 
checking whether that was acceptable when there wasnt a valid claim. So I didnt 
think esure should be held responsible for the cost of hire after 22 December 2022.  
My view was that a refund of Mr Ds premiums wasnt appropriate, as the car had 
continued to be insured for perils such as fire, vandalism, or theft of parts - all of 
which I thought could have reduced its scrap value. But I thought Mr D had faced a 
lot of upset and inconvenience due to esures poor service. I thought its failure to 
provide documents by post as requested  plus its unhelpful response to his queries 
about online access to them -  contributed to his confusion, as he couldnt look at 
the policy wording. I said I thought the poor service had impacted on Mr D (a 
disabled person, to whom a car was essential) more than it might otherwise have 
done. So I said I was minded to conclude that esure should pay him £600 
compensation, plus the hire costs he incurred up to 22 December 2022.     
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view, but neither party did so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any comment on my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart from them. For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint and raising the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to £600. I think that esure should also refund 
Mr Ds car hire charges up to 22 December 2022, plus interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay  
£600 compensation to Mr D for distress and inconvenience. Subject to receipts, it should 
also refund his car hire up to 22 December 2022. It should add interest to each payment, at 
the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the payment to the date of settlement.
If esure thinks its required by HMRC to  deduct tax from the interest it should tell Mr D how 
much it has deducted, so he can claim it back if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman