DRN-3605027
The complaint
Mr P complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to refund him when he said 
hed been scammed.
What happened
Mr P had a bill payment set up on his Nationwide account, to send money to his account 
with a bank Ill call B. 
Between 11 October 2021 and 14 January 2022, Mr P sent 16 payments to his account with 
bank B. The amounts varied from £150 to £5,500 and totalled £38,800.
In May 2022, Mr P wrote to Nationwide. He said hed been targeted by fraudsters. He 
explained that after hed made the transfers from his Nationwide account to his account with 
bank B, hed then transferred money from his bank B account to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company. From there the money had gone on again, to another cryptocurrency organisation 
 and in January 2022 hed found out that he couldnt access his cryptocurrency account 
with that organisation.
Mr P said that the withdrawals hed made from his Nationwide account had been out of 
character, and that as Nationwide was signed up to the Authorised Push Payment scam 
code, he expected Nationwide to reimburse him for his financial losses from the 
cryptocurrency organisation, which he said came to £37,450.
Nationwide didnt agree. In its final response letter to Mr P, it said that its financial crime 
team had investigated, but declined his claim for any refund. Nationwide explained that its 
fraud detection systems were based on known fraud trends. But as Mr P had sent the money 
to his own current account with bank B, it wouldnt have alerted any of the fraud systems. 
Nationwide pointed out that no fraudulent activity had taken place as a direct result of the bill 
payments hed made from his Nationwide account. It said hed need to raise a claim with 
bank B.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said that Nationwide would have seen 
the unusually large amounts being transferred, and the fact he was trying to use a 
cryptocurrency organisation multiple times. So he said Nationwide should have prevented it. 
Mr P said that it had had a devastating effect on him as hed thought he was investing in 
shares. He said he believed Nationwide and bank B should compensate him for being a 
victim of fraud and a scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said that Nationwide hadnt needed to 
intervene as it wouldnt have had concerns because Mr P was sending money to his own 
account.
Mr P wasnt satisfied. He said he strongly disagreed and the investigators view wasnt fair or 
balanced. He also said he thought the investigator had been going to email him to ask if he 
had further information, but hed just received the conclusions. The investigator explained 
that what hed said was that if he needed more information hed email Mr P  but in fact 
there was enough evidence on the case, because the payments had gone to Mr Ps own 
account.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I recognise that Mr P says he was expecting the investigator to email him again, and the 
investigator said hed only do so if he needed more information. After that discussion, Mr P 
was sent a letter about how an ombudsmans decision works, and was given the chance to 
provide anything more if he wanted to. So Mr P has had time since that exchange of emails 
to provide any extra information he wished me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the more recent initiatives in response to the increasing amount of fraud and scams 
is the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which was introduced by the Lending 
Standards Board. But this doesnt apply to payments like this, made from Mr Ps Nationwide 
account to his own account with bank B. 
Nevertheless, there are regulations governing disputed transactions, and good industry 
practice in regard to banks helping prevent fraud and scams. The relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. Here, its not disputed that Mr P authorised the payments from his Nationwide account 
to his account with bank B. So the starting point is that Mr P would be liable, as he 
authorised the payments, but there are other factors which banks have to take into 
consideration.
Firms should step in if a transaction is sufficiently unusual or out of character, but they also 
need to strike a balance between intervening in payments to try to prevent fraud and 
financial harm, and unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. So 
Ive looked carefully at what happened here.
Ive seen Mr Ps Nationwide statements going back to February 2021. Between that date 
and the disputed transactions starting in October 2021, there wasnt a history of frequent 
payments for amounts up to around £5,000 a time. So the amount of the disputed payments 
was unusual. But thats not sufficient in itself. 
Financial organisations set their own criteria for what characteristics trigger a security alert, 
and its often a complex algorithm. Here, the simple and most important factor is that the 
money always went as an online banking bill payment transfer to an account in Mr Ps own 
name with a major UK bank. It didnt go to the cryptocurrency exchange company. Nor did it 
go to the ultimate recipient, the cryptocurrency organisation. Nor was it sent to a fraudsters 
account where Mr P couldnt have accessed it again. Ive also seen from Mr Ps account with 
bank B that the money from Mr Ps Nationwide account reached his account with bank B. 
Moreover, Mr P didnt make some of  the payments to the cryptocurrency exchange 
company immediately when his Nationwide money reached bank B. He authorised the 
payments from Nationwide between 11 October 2021 and 14 January 2022. He didnt make 
the disputed payments from his bank B account until 5 December 2021 to 14 January 2022. 
So Mr P had, for the earlier payments at least, taken time to consider before paying the 
cryptocurrency exchange company from his account with bank B. The Nationwide payments werent all part of a cluster of near-simultaneous payments to facilitate moving money 
onwards to the cryptocurrency exchange company or cryptocurrency organisation. 
As far as Nationwide was concerned, Mr P was simply making payments to his own account 
with one of the major banks. I can see no valid reason why Nationwide might have 
considered that the payments were suspect, or that Mr P might later authorise payments 
from his bank B account to buy cryptocurrency. There are millions of payments every day, of 
which a high percentage would be customers transferring money entirely routinely from their 
account with one major financial organisation to their account with another financial 
organisation. And as Ive already said, theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent or the result of a scam, and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. So even though the payments were larger than normal for 
Mr Ps account, I dont think it would be reasonable to say Nationwide was obliged to have 
intervened.
So in all the circumstances of this case, I cant say Nationwide ought reasonably to have 
triggered security concerns and paused the payments pending enquiries with Mr P before 
allowing them through. So I dont think it unreasonably missed an opportunity potentially to  
prevent Mr Ps loss, and I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman