DRN-1829517
The complaint
Miss M is complaining about the interest charges on her Cahoot flexible credit account (now 
part of Santander UK Plc). Shes also complaining that Santander UK Plc havent sent her 
statements for the flexible credit account since September 2017.
What happened
Miss M opened a flexible credit account with Cahoot in 2003. During the period from 2003 to 
2008 the interest rate on her flexible credit account increased significantly. In 2008 the 
account defaulted and no further interest has been charged since then. Miss M is still making 
repayments against the loan. 
Miss M complained that the interest charges were unfair and said that she would like a 
refund of overpaid interest. 
Santander didnt reply to Miss Ms complaint within the 8-week time limit so Miss M brought 
her complaint to us.
During our investigation it became clear that Miss M was also complaining that she hasnt 
received statements for this account since September 2017.
Our investigators view was that Miss Ms complaint about the interest charges fell outside of 
our time limits so we couldnt look at it. Our investigator tried to resolve Miss Ms complaint 
about not receiving statements informally with Santander. Miss M wasnt happy with that and 
so her complaint came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision in respect of Miss Ms complaint on 20 April 2020. In that 
decision I said I thought we could look at Miss Ms complaint about the interest charges. I 
said I could see Miss M had complained about the same issue before and I couldnt see that 
shed received a valid final response letter. Under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, that 
meant I could consider the complaint. 
Because of the time that had passed, Santander didnt have all of the evidence I might have 
liked to have seen in respect of Miss Ms complaint about interest charges, but the contact 
notes and terms and conditions they were able to provide satisfied me that Cahoot had 
changed their interest rate changes in line with their terms and conditions and 
communicated those changes to Miss M. So I said in my provisional decision that I was 
satisfied Santander didnt need to do anything further in respect of the interest charges.
In my provisional decision I also looked at Miss Ms complaint about not receiving her 
statements. I said that the Consumer Credit Act requires a creditor under a regulated 
agreement to give the debtor statements at least every 12 months. This means that 
Santander is required to provide Miss M with statements at least annually. I noted that 
Santander said they normally send Miss Ms loan statements annually, but they can see they 
didnt send statements to Miss M in 2018 or 2019. Santander have since provided Miss M 
with transaction listings, via our service, so shes had the information in a different format but 
shes not happy with this. So I said I thought Santander had made an error in not sending Miss Ms statements when they should have and should pay £100 to Miss M to compensate 
her for the inconvenience and upset shes experienced from not receiving these statements.
Santander accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay the suggested compensation 
to Miss M. They also sent Miss M a statement dated 23 April 2020. 
Miss M commented that shed had a letter showing the balance in March 2010 which said 
she would receive monthly statements and sent us a copy of that letter. She also said she 
was unhappy with the statement dated 23 April 2020 as it showed incorrect information.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is unchanged from my provisional decision and I am partially upholding Miss 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that Santander told Miss M in 2010 that she would receive statements monthly. But 
this was ten years ago and Santander now say that they would normally send Miss M an 
annual statement for this account.  Given that Miss M isnt charged interest on her loan and 
isnt able to make any withdrawals from it, the only movements on her balance are the 
payments Miss M makes into her loan. So I dont think its unreasonable that Santander 
send her a statement annually rather than monthly. 
Ive seen the statement dated 23 April 2020 that Miss M is unhappy with and it looks to me 
like the date associated with the opening balance is incorrect. Ive explained this to Miss M 
and Ive asked Santander to send her a corrected version of the statement. But I dont intend 
to take any further action as I consider this to be a new issue. If Miss M continues to have 
problems with this statement she will need to take it up with Santander.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Santander should pay Miss M £100 as compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience they have caused her, and theyve agreed to this. So Im 
now asking Santander to make arrangements to pay this to Miss M.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. Santander UK Plc 
should pay £100 to Miss M to compensate her for the upset and inconvenience caused by 
not receiving her account statements. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman