The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the service provided by TransUnion International UK Limited. 
What happened
The business hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
Although Mr H says he first sent a letter in October 2019, it has no record of receiving
this letter. It only received correspondence dated November 2019 from a third-party
insurer via fax.
CallValidate isnt a company, its a product offered by the business to assist in
complying with Know Your Customer regulations, so the Subject Access Request
(SAR) made by Mr H cant be fulfilled by CallValidate.
Its records show that a SAR was made on July 2019 and dispatched to Mr H on 9
August  in respect of which a complaint is being dealt with separately.
In the circumstances it doesnt believe its acted inappropriately.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:  
When Mr H called to surrender a bond with a third-party provider in April 2019, it ran
an identity check using a product CallValidate  provided by the business.
So, the letter(s) Mr H had sent to the third-party product provider had to be sent to
the business.
The business first received a letter dated 19 November 2019, and wrote back to Mr H
on 16 December 2019, explaining that CallValidate was a product that couldnt
respond to his SAR.
In a Final Response Letter dated 20 January 2020, it explained that hed only receive
information from 9 August onwards.
The SAR was sent by recorded delivery but has since been sent by standard post as
requested by Mr H  including information regarding the identity check.
She cant see that theres anything else that the business needs to do in the
circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
DRN-1651198What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says Im satisfied that the 
business has dealt with this matter reasonably. 
As a product, CallValidate simply isnt able to respond to Mr Hs SAR request. However, as a 
product that belongs to the business, the business is able to respond. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business responded in 
response to the letter it received in November 2019. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr H says about sending a letter in October 2019, but evidently 
it wasnt received by the business and therefore understandably wasnt responded to. Its 
possible that it may have got lost in the post, or was sent to the wrong business/address, in 
either case I cant blame the business for this. 
I note that Mr H was sent the SAR and that there is a complaint in relation to that  relating 
to delivery of the SAR  which isnt the subject of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman