DRN-2465775
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that AvantCredit of UK, LLC agreed to a loan hed applied for as he said it 
was unaffordable for him.
  
What happened
In August 2018 Mr R took out a £2,800 loan with AvantCredit, to be repaid over 36 months 
with repayments of £127.61 a month.
Mr R said AvantCredit shouldnt have approved the loan as it wasnt affordable when all of 
his circumstances were taken into consideration. Hes said he couldnt afford to repay the 
loan and was already in a cycle of borrowing from payday loan lenders each month. He 
complained to AvantCredit as he didnt think theyd done enough to establish his true 
situation.
AvantCredit said theyd carried out sufficient checks that showed the loan was affordable for 
Mr R. 
Mr R wasnt happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said AvantCredit had carried out a credit search and asked Mr R for details 
of his income and expenditure at the time of the application. But said AvantCredit should 
have asked for further information to determine Mr Rs financial circumstances as the 
information theyd looked at showed Mr R was struggling financially at the time of the loan. 
So, hed looked at Mr Rs bank statements for the three months leading up to the application. 
Mr R hadnt said what the loan was to be used for. And his bank statements and credit file 
showed he was using other forms of credit to maintain his borrowing commitments. Our 
investigator said AvantCredit shouldnt have agreed the loan for Mr R.
AvantCredit didnt agree, they said theyd made reasonable and proportionate checks and 
based on the information they saw the loan was affordable. They asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are whether AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks. 
And whether the loan made was affordable and sustainable for Mr R.
Regulations in place at the time AvantCredit lent to Mr R required them to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Mr R could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning AvantCredit need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to think only about 
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of 
repayment on Mr R himself. 
Checks also must be proportionate taking into account the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the particular circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, 
current situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. 
So, Ive considered whether AvantCredit in lending to Mr R had been thorough in the checks 
they made. And whether theyve taken all of these factors into account in deciding to lend to 
him.
AvantCredit said Mr Rs credit checks didnt show he was having any difficulty in repaying 
his existing financial commitments. AvantCredit  said the income and expenditure 
information provided suggested Mr R had a monthly income of around £1389.63 with 
outgoings of rent, utilities and car payments totalling £900, which left Mr R with a disposable 
income of around £490. Which would imply that the loan of £127.61 was easily affordable. 
But I think AvantCredit ought reasonably to have been aware from its checks that some of
the information used for Mr Rs income and expenditure was somewhat at odds with 
information in his credit report.
The credit report showed that Mr R had a total debt balance of over £11,704, and in the last 
12 months his total debt had increased by £6,112. Hed eight active accounts and had five 
new loan accounts in the previous six months. The report showed Mr R  had regular credit 
commitments for payday loans. And if he had the disposable income suggested by 
Avant Credit I would question why he needed to borrow money regularly. I think the credit 
report suggested Mr R was struggling financially and dependent on short term lending.
I would have expected AvantCredit to want to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Rs true 
financial position - to satisfy itself that he could sustainably meet his loan repayments over 
the loan term. Mr R hadnt said the loan was for debt consolidation but for other. I think that 
AvantCredit ought reasonably to have realised that in order for its checks to be reasonable 
and proportionate, in the circumstances, it needed to look further into Mr Rs financial 
position  for example by asking to see his bank statements.
Mr R has provided us with copies of his bank statements for the months leading up to his
loan application so I can determine what better checks might have shown AvantCredit at that
time. 
Having looked at his bank statements, I can see Mr R had a regular ongoing history of taking 
our payday loans. In July 2018, I can see Mr R took out a £2,000 loan with another finance 
company and seemed to pay some of his existing payday lenders. But in early August 2018 he was again using one of these payday lenders to borrow three further loans in the space of 
a few days. 
The bank statements Ive seen from May 2018 to August 2018, also show a few small 
gambling transactions. And regular transfers in and out of another of Mr Rs accounts which I 
think would have warranted further investigation.  
I think from the information Ive seen its clear Mr R was struggling to manage his finances  
hence his need for further funds. He may have been making his monthly repayments, but I 
think its clear he was only able to do this by using other credit facilities. And, in these 
circumstances, I think that it would have been fair, reasonable and proportionate for 
AvantCredit to have recognised this and to factor it in to any product offered, when lending to 
him. I dont think they did do this. I dont think they focussed on Mr R as a borrower and his 
specific circumstances, they instead only sought to take advantage of Mr Rs financial 
situation by providing a loan that incurred a high interest rate   49.8%. And I dont think the 
loan was sustainable as within a short period Mr R was struggling to make his monthly 
repayments for this loan.
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt 
straightforward as Mr R has had the loan in question and hes used the funds. in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, I ask AvantCredit of UK, LLC to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Rs account from when it was 
opened;
treat any payments that Mr R has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this 
results in Mr R having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra should 
be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr R plus 8% simple interest on this 
amount from date of payment to date of settlement; 
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Rs account after all adjustments have been 
made, then AvantCredit needs to come to a suitable repayment plan with Mr R to pay 
off the remaining amount; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Rs credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take off tax from this interest. 
AvantCredit of UK, LLC must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
 My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and ask AvantCredit of UK, LLC to act as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman