DRN-4180099
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction its fraud detection system flagged. Hes raised several concerns about the 
customer service he received. 
What happened
Mr S made an online transfer to a third-party from his Nationwide account. Three hours later 
he received an email notification asking him to contact Nationwides fraud department about 
it. Mr S called the number in the email but after spending time inputting his details, he got a 
message telling him that the relevant department was closed. 
He called back the next day and spoke to an agent who asked him security questions but left 
him on hold for over an hour. During this time, Mr S says the call reverted to an automated 
messaging system, and was answered by someone else, who asked him questions again. 
While this was going on, Mr S says he was deeply distraught as hed made a payment of 
£6,000, which had disappeared from his account. He thought hed done something wrong, 
and his money was lost. Mr S describes that the same thing happened where he was on for 
hold, without an answer.
Eventually, he spoke to the fraud department and raised a complaint about the customer 
service both in terms of the time taken to speak to someone and the information given.  
Nationwide investigated. In summary, it explained that its fraud detection system had flagged 
the transaction for a check, and it should have completed a call back to Mr S to check it was 
genuine. It accepted it hadnt done the latter and paid £75 for the difficulties caused to Mr S 
in having to call it and wait on hold, unable to complete the payment. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the response and continued to discuss his complaint. He added 
that he was concerned it hadnt provided accurate details for him to get back in touch by 
email and the overall service had continued to be poor.
Nationwide accepted it hadnt provided an email address and a direct line in an initial 
response and paid a further £25 to say sorry but said it couldnt accept replies to an address 
Mr S had been emailing  as this function didnt exist. It also paid a further £25 for Mr S 
waiting on the phone. So, a total of £125 in all.
Mr S didnt think the compensation went far enough or that Nationwide had addressed all of 
his concerns. So, he referred matters to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into at what happened but he thought the compensation was 
fair. He explained businesses have systems in place that flag transactions to counter fraud 
and scams. The problem here wasnt this but Nationwides failure to call Mr S, to check if 
hed made the payment. He recognised this had led to some frustration and inconvenience, 
but he considered the amount paid fairly reflected the impact. 
Mr S didnt agree. He maintained some elements of is complaint had been overlooked, such 
as, details being removed from his list of payees, an explanation of where his £6,000 had 
gone for 24 hours,  why a recording of a particular call was missing where an agent had 
inferred Mr S would be in trouble if he wasnt telling the truth about the purpose of the 
payment and why Nationwide had referenced a payment made by card when that didnt 
apply. Mr S also wasnt persuaded there had been a systems error when Nationwide had 
failed to call him. 
The case was referred for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the steps taken by Nationwide to resolve the complaint are fair. 
Mr S has in his submissions made a number of detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar manner here will not be taken as 
a discourtesy; as an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair 
and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for 
me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
Like the adjudicator explained, Nationwide didnt make a mistake in flagging the transaction. 
The terms of the agreement that Mr S has with Nationwide say that it can decline to make a 
payment in certain circumstances which may lead to delays. Checking for fraud is one and it 
would be wrong for me to criticise this approach. But Nationwide should have, as it has 
already acknowledged, contacted Mr S to check if hed legitimately made the payment in 
order to deal with the block. Ive noted Mr Ss comments about a systems error being an 
excuse, but I dont think theres anything to be gained by exploring this point further, 
because Nationwide accepts the call didnt happen. The outstanding issue here is assessing 
what difficulties this caused and how Mr S should be compensated. 
Mr S has described the poor service he received in waiting to get through and being put on 
hold, after speaking with multiple agents. I agree this wasnt good enough and this would 
have added to him feeling alarmed. But I think the amount paid, a £125 fairly recognises the 
impact of the poor service issues mentioned. 
In making my assessment, Ive taken into account that the block was removed without any 
additional delay, enabling the payment to go through. Mr S would have known the funds 
were on hold. Ive also thought about the overall impact of some of the information Mr S says 
he was given. He says he was asked why he needed to make the payment and felt it was 
inferred that if he wasnt telling the truth he could get into trouble. I dont have a recording of 
this call, but I dont consider I need it. Because Im prepared to accept what Mr S has said. I 
dont think Nationwide made a mistake in asking the question. It was reasonable question to 
ask as part of its checks so it could be satisfied this was a payment made of free will and 
wasnt as a result of a fraud or scam, which unfortunately remain on the increase.
It wasnt helpful Nationwide referred to a card but the reason for the block was ultimately the 
same. 
Mr S has referenced other issues, such as, why his details were removed from his list of 
payees. However, I dont think this materially affects the outcome of this complaint.  
Unfortunately, such incidents can be mildly annoying but Im afraid this is part of day-to-day 
life. It doesnt necessarily follow that this warrants further compensation. Thinking about everything, I think what Nationwide has already done to resolve the 
complaint is enough. So, it follows that I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman