DRN-3111275
The complaint
B complains that Accelerant Insurance Limited declined its claimed and avoided the policy 
following a fire at a property it had insured.
Mr M has brought this complaint on behalf of B.
What happened
Mr M is the director of B. B had insurance with Accelerant for three properties. The polices 
were taken out through a broker in 2017 and renewed each year after and were in Bs name.
In December 2020 there was a fire at one of the properties and B made a claim. On 
investigating the claim Accelerant found that B was the managing agent for the property, but 
a different company  S  owned it. It subsequently declined the claim as it said B didnt 
have an insurable interest in the property, so wasnt the correct beneficiary of any claims. It 
subsequently avoided the policy (cancelled as if it hadnt existed) up until the 2019 renewal.
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked us to investigate. Our investigator didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld as she thought Accelerant had acted fairly by avoiding the policy and in 
line with the relevant law and policy terms. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said hed never said B owned the property, and his broker 
had reassured him that it was right that the policy was in Bs name. He also said that B 
accepted the money for the rent for the property, so did have an insurable interest. He asked 
for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accelerant has said that Mr M misrepresented when taking out the insurance for the property 
as he provided the wrong information about the owner. It says that this meant there was no 
insurable interest and the policy was therefore void. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mr M took out and renewed the policy for B he had a 
duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation 
of risk, the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought 
to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the 
risk and on what terms.
From looking at the documents provided by Accelerant, its clear that the policyholder was 
listed as B. Further the business type is described as property owner. So I think it would 
have been clear to Mr M that the owner of the property should be the listed inured. And there 
is no mention of any other business or party that has an interest in the property.  From what 
Ive seen here, Im satisfied that Mr M didnt provide a fair presentation of the risk. And that 
he made a misrepresentation.
I note that B has said it explained to its broker, who arranged the policy, that B didnt own the 
property and had been reassured that the policy details were correct. As part of this 
complaint, Im only considering the actions of Accelerant based on the information it had. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Bs broker told Accelerant that the property was 
not owned by B. I understand B has also made a complaint about the broker, and its actions 
should be considered under that complaint. But Im satisfied Accelerant werent informed of 
the correct owner of the property.
However under the Insurance Act in order for Accelerant to take any action, it has to show 
that there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. This means that it needs to show that if 
it had been given the correct information it would either have not offered the insurance policy 
at all or would have offered it on different terms.
Here, Accelerant hasnt shown this. Its said that it hasnt avoided the policy because theres 
been a qualifying misrepresentation in line with the Insurance Act, but instead due to the fact 
that the policyholder (B) wasnt the owner of the property so didnt have an insurable interest 
under the policy and wouldnt be entitled to benefit from any claim under it. 
Its also said its entitled to avoid the policy based on the terms, which state:
1. Alteration in Risk or Interest This policy shall be avoided with effect from the date the 
event occurs if after the commencement of this insurance: (a) Your interest ceases, except 
by will or operation of law
Its my role to consider whether Accelerant has acted fairly and reasonably by avoiding Bs 
policy. And while this service takes regard for the relevant law, it isnt the only factor we 
consider.
Here, while Accelerant hasnt shown it wouldnt have offered the policy if the correct 
policyholder had been provided, I think its acted fairly by avoiding the policy, Ill explain why.
Since the policy was renewed in August 2019, its been in the name of B. However the 
insured property has been owned by S for the duration for this time. The listed policyholder 
of an insurance policy must have an insurable interest in the subject of the insurance in 
order for the contract to be valid. As it is the policyholder that benefits from any claim 
payment. And if the policyholder doesnt have an insurable interest in the subject of the 
insurance then wed generally say it would be fair for an insurer to turn down a claim. For 
example, it wouldnt be fair for an individual to make a claim on an insurance policy for a 
replacement mobile phone, if the one damaged or lost didnt belong to them in the first place. 
B has confirmed that the property has never been owned by it. And it was sold to S in 
February 2019. Its provided a copy of the agreement between S and B and its clear from 
this that the property is managed by B for S. So Im satisfied that the insurable interest fairly 
sits with S and not B.
Therefore Im satisfied that had B made a claim on the policy during the period from the 
2019 renewal, there wouldnt have been a valid claim. 
Further, Accelerants terms and conditions allow it to avoid the policy where the 
policyholders interest ceases. And in this case there had been no insurable interest at least 
since 2019 when the property was bought by S. So when considering these things together, I think Accelerant has acted fairly in avoiding the 
policy from until 2019. As it is entitled to avoid the policy under its terms and B wouldnt have 
been able to make a successful claim during this period. 
Accelerant has said it hasnt provided a refund of the policy premiums. As B wasnt the 
owner of the property throughout this time, I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
For these reasons I dont think Accelerant has acted unfairly and I wont interfere in its 
decision to avoid Bs policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman