DRN-2795961
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough to
settle his motor insurance claim, after his car was stolen. 
What happened
Mr A holds a motor insurance policy with Admiral. He claimed on his policy after his car was
stolen. Admiral valued Mr As car at £15,300 and offered him that, minus his excess to settle
his claim. Mr A said his car was worth more than that. He said hed bought it at an auction a
few weeks earlier for £14,441 and spent £2,535 on repairs, before deciding to sell it. Mr A
complained to Admiral. Admiral said the amount it paid to settle the claim, needed to reflect
the market hed bought in it. As, if it paid him the cars retail value, hed be over indemnified.
As Mr A remained unhappy with Admirals response, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay the cars retail value. She found that a 
fairer valuation was £16,800 after comparing valuations from three trade guides. To put 
things right she asked Admiral to increase its valuation.
Admiral didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the purpose of the
policy term was to reflect the market that the policyholder used, and it wasnt fair to provide
everyone with the same valuation, irrespective of where they bought their car from. It also
said it didnt recognise one of the trade guides used by the investigator and as such wouldnt
be using that valuation to increase its offer.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 April 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt value cars, instead we look to see that the insurer has made a fair and
reasonable offer to settle the claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say that if his car is damaged Admiral can pay
him a cash sum to replace it. It says if Admiral pays a cash sum, the most it will pay is the
cars market value. Market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term
market in which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail Value, will not
apply if you bought your car privately or at an auction
This means that under the strict application of the term Admiral can value Mr As car
based on the amount it thinks he would be able to replace it for at an auction.
However, Im also required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. And I dont think valuing Mr As car in this way provides a fair and
reasonable outcome in this particular case.
I say that because the purpose of the insurance is for Mr A to be able to replace his
car with one of the same make, model, year, mileage and condition, even if he
chooses not to do that. I think limiting the settlement amount to an auction value
means its less likely Mr A would be able to replace his car with a similar one, as he
would have a more limited market to buy from.
I have considered that Mr A bought his car a few weeks before the theft, as the
purpose of the policy isnt to put him in a better position than he was before the theft.
But in this particular case, I can see that Mr A spent £2,535 on repairing it. I
appreciate that some of this - such as the brakes - was maintenance but he also had
bodywork repairs carried out and refurbished the alloys. So, I dont think Mr A is being
over indemnified if Admiral pays him more than the auction value. However, I also
dont think the additional work means the car would be worth more than the
valuations produced by the guides because the guides take account of the car being
in a good condition.
To put Mr A back in the position he was in before the theft, I think it would be fair and
reasonable for Admiral to settle Mr As claim using the cars market value produced
by the trade guides, which I also think is good industry practice.
In order to decide a fair amount, Ive looked at the valuations produced in three trade
guides. I appreciate Admiral doesnt use one of these and so doesnt recognise it, but
as I have access to it and find it reliable, I think its fair and reasonable to consider it
along with the two guides Admiral used.
The guides produce valuations of £16,915, £17,830 and £15,600. I dont find that any
of these valuations are out of line, but they are all above the valuation that Admiral
produced. So, as theres a range, I think it would be fair and reasonable to use an
average of these three values which is £16,781.
I therefore intend to find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular
complaint is for Admiral to pay Mr A the difference between what its already paid him
and £16,781 (minus the excess) which is an additional £1,481.
Due to the time Mr As been without the money Admiral should also pay Mr A interest
on the additional amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date it paid his claim to the 
date it makes payment.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr A replied to say that his car had 
thousands of pounds of factory fitted extras. And due to the cars high specification it would 
be fairer to discount the lowest valuation of £15,600 and base the valuation of the car on the 
other two trade guides.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As point that his car has additional extras, but the trade guides take 
account of these when producing a valuation. And often extras dont increase the value of a 
second-hand car. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that I should discount the lower valuation. As such, I 
dont intend to depart from my provisional decision.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr A an additional £1,481, plus interest on that amount at 8% 
simple per year from the date it paid his claim to the date it makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman