DRN-4308964
The complaint
Mr G complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited wanted to cancel his telematics 
motor insurance policy as it said his mobile phone had been used whilst he was driving.
 
What happened
Skyfire told Mr G that his telematics device could detect if his mobile phone was being used 
in his car. It told Mr G that it had detected phone usage and warned him of possible 
cancellation. Mr G thought this was unfair as a passenger had been using the phone. 
Then Skyfire said Mr G or additional drivers were continuing to use a phone whilst driving. 
But Mr G said this was whilst the car was being taken for a test drive and whilst his policy 
had been suspended. He said he wasnt then insured to drive the car and the driver was 
using his own insurance. Mr G then cancelled the policy to avoid having a cancellation on his 
record. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy stated that neither Mr G nor his passengers could use his phone whilst driving. He 
thought there was evidence that Mr Gs phone had been used whilst the car was being 
driven. And so he thought it was fair and reasonable for Skyfire to notify him that it would 
cancel the policy. He didnt see evidence that the policy wasnt live when the car was being 
test-driven. 
Mr G asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr Gs policy requires him to have an App on his smart phone to collect driving data. I can 
see that in Mr Gs policy booklet it states on page 9 under Driving Data Terms and 
Conditions:
You must not use your phone or allow any passengers to use your phone while you are 
driving. To do so can affect your driving score and your insurer will not provide cover for any 
person driving the car while using a mobile phone at the time of an incident.
And on page 42 under Phone Distraction:
Do not give your phone to passengers while you are driving as this can affect your driving 
score, because the App detects when your phone is being used while your car is being 
driven. If the App detects that you are using your phone excessively while your car is 
being driven, your insurer will have the right to cancel your policy.
Mr G said his passengers were using his phone. But this isnt permitted by the policys terms 
and conditions. Mr G also said that hed used the phone whilst an additional driver was 
driving. Mr G amended his record to state that he was a passenger, but only after hed 
received a warning from Skyfire. Skyfire then sent Mr G a final warning about phone 
distraction. 
And when Skyfire detected the phone use a further time, it then said it would cancel the 
policy. Mr G said the car was being test-driven at the time and the policy had been cancelled 
the day beforehand. But I can see from Skyfires records and the letters that Mr G received 
that the policy was then still live. 
Mr G also said the policy had been temporarily suspended whilst he sold his car. But Skyfire 
confirmed that it doesnt provide this. So Im satisfied that the policy was active, and Mr Gs 
mobile phone was in use during the test drive, contrary to the policys requirements. 
So Im satisfied that Skyfire acted within the policys terms and conditions and fairly and 
reasonably when it said it would cancel Mr Gs policy. And so I cant say that it did anything 
wrong in this. As it was, Mr G cancelled the policy himself so that he wouldnt have to 
declare the cancellation to future insurers.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman