DRN-3115512
The complaint
Mrs V complains that The Protection Specialist Limited (TPSL) didnt submit her complaint 
for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) in time which meant she missed her 
opportunity to claim. 
  
What happened
Mrs V instructed TPSL in 2018 to look into a claim for PPI mis-sold to her late husband by 
Lender S. TPSL progressed the complaint but in 2020 Lender S wrote to Mrs V and 
explained the Financial Conduct Authority had set a deadline of 29 August 2019 by which all 
PPI complaints needed to be submitted. Lender S said TPSL had submitted a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR) by this deadline. They said this was received by them in March 
2018 and they responded just over a week later. However, a complaint wasnt received by 
them until October 2019, which was after the deadline date. So, they said they cant look into 
the complaint. Mrs V complained to TPSL about the length of time taken, missing the 
deadline and not keeping her updated.  
TPSL responded and explained lenders dont accept DSARs for customers who have 
passed away so they asked Mrs V if she had an account number for the account she was 
claiming PPI for. They said Mrs V provided a document showing this and the DSAR process 
was then by-passed. They explained they then completed the PPI questionnaire with Mrs V 
and the full letter of complaint was sent to Lender S on 27 June 2018. TPSL explained that 
Lender S maintained the complaint wasnt submitted to them prior to October 2019 but if 
TPSL had evidence of a pre-deadline submission, they would look into this. TPSL said, as 
they held no proof of postage or delivery for the complaint letter sent in June 2018, they had 
no option but to close their file. 
In relation to Mrs Vs other points, TPSL said, due to the large number of customers they 
deal with they cant always provide updates by phone so they rely on text messages and 
emails to update customers. And, they had noted Mrs V had opted out of text and email 
communication from TPSL. They felt the length of time was down to Lender S and they felt 
they hadnt done anything that had a detrimental impact on the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs V. He thought there had been errors by TPSL and 
recommended £200 compensation. A separate complaint was set up against Lender S and 
our investigator recommended TPSL pay a further £250 for loss of opportunity if our service 
finds Lender S have acted fairly in declining Mrs Vs complaint on the basis it was submitted 
after the deadline. TPSL disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events here and matched this to the copy documents provided 
by TPSL. The timeline shows Mrs V first instructs TPSL in February 2018. Over the next 
couple of months TPSL get together information such as the Letter of Authority (LoA) and 
PPI questionnaire. Then in April, Lender S asks for a copy of the Grant of Probate and TPSL 
gather further information. A letter of complaint is then sent to Lender S in June. Lender S 
then raise a query in September and ask for details of the account number. TPSL then 
discuss this further with Mrs V in November and ask her to send a document showing the 
account number. TPSL chase Mrs V for this in January 2019 and send a pre-paid envelope 
for her to send the information. This is received and sent to Lender S about two weeks later. 
Then in May TPSL send a new LoA to Mrs V which is signed by her and then sent to Lender 
S. TPSL ask Lender S for a final response letter. Two months later, and having received no 
response, TPSL ask Lender S for an update. At this point, its clear Mrs V is becoming 
frustrated with the delay and she tells TPSL she isnt happy with the service. TPSL chase 
Lender S again at the end of July. Theres a note dated 26 August which says Lender S say 
they have checked their records and cant see they have received the complaint. They ask 
TPSL to send the complaint again with a valid LoA dated within the last six months. The 
complaint is resent to Lender S. There is then a note dated 24 October which says Having 
reviewed this claim, I can see that the client has advised they were sending in a copy of their
mortgage book which was not uploaded to claim. This confirms the mortgage account 
number so I have attached. Can see that complaint was re-sent with a copy LOA,
therefore I have sent a follow up letter to [Lender S] with the original LOA, both proof of 
account docs held on file, another copy of [death certificate] and a copy of the grant of 
probate to chase an update. 
Lender S then write to TPSL in January 2020 and say the claim has been submitted after the 
PPI deadline date so it has been rejected. TPSL respond and say the claim was submitted in 
June 2018 so it was made prior to the deadline date. TPSL enclose a copy of the original 
claim. TPSL write to Lender S in September with a new LoA and ask for a final response. 
Lender S write to TPSL in November and say the claim was made after the PPI deadline 
date. TPSL respond and say they believe this complaint is valid and should be investigated. 
Lender S write to Mrs V in December and explain the complaint wasnt received by them 
until 28 October 2019, which was after the deadline date. So, they say they cant look into 
the complaint. 
I can see theres a dispute here, on the one hand, TPSL say they submitted the letter of 
complaint before the PPI deadline date, and on the other hand, Lender S say they received it 
after the deadline date. So, Ive looked at the evidence to decide what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened here. TPSL have provided a letter of complaint dated 27 June 
2018 so I dont doubt this was sent. But it doesnt appear to have been received as Lender S 
ask for it to be resent on 26 August 2019  this being three days before the deadline. The 
timeline suggests TPSL resent the complaint but it doesnt appear this was received either.
So, while I cant say there has been an error by TPSL if the letter of complaint hasnt been 
received, I think its important to look at events following the original submission. There is a 
period of around 14 months between the original letter of complaint being submitted and the 
deadline date. I cant see TPSL have taken proactive steps to find out what was happening 
and why they hadnt received any acknowledgment confirming receipt of the letter of 
complaint. TPSL have provided a screenshot from their system which says 
acknowledgement and then shows a tick beside a box which notes the date 2 January 
2019. TPSL say this proves they received an acknowledgement to Mrs Vs complaint. But, 
Im not persuaded by the screenshot alone, and I say this for two reasons. 
Firstly, TPSL say they no longer have a copy of the acknowledgment letter on file. I think this 
wouldve been sufficient to prove Lender S had received the letter of complaint. And, as they 
dont have this, I cant say Im satisfied the complaint was received. Secondly, theres a note in the timeline dated 9 May 2019 which says We have not received an Ack for this claim 
and not received any further correspondence. This doesnt support TPSLs argument that 
four months earlier they had received an acknowledgment. 
Following the letter of complaint being sent, there is contact between TPSL and Lender S. 
For example in October 2018, Lender S ask for the account number and TPSL reply in 
November. And, in May 2019, TPSL send Lender S an updated LoA. Then in July 2019, the 
complaint is submitted again on a query spreadsheet exchange. In this correspondence, I 
havent seen any information from Lender S which would suggest they have received the 
letter of complaint. While Lender S do ask for further information, this could well be as a 
follow-up to other previous communication they received. In view of this, I wouldve expected 
TPSL to have queried this and sought confirmation that Lender S has received the letter of 
complaint and that its being investigated. 
That said, I do understand TPSL cant control whether Lender S respond to them and Ive 
seen occasions where they chase for updates. But, I think its reasonable to expect there 
shouldve come a point where TPSL shouldve considered the next steps to escalate the 
complaint if they werent getting a final response. In this case, that wouldve been a referral 
to our service, and I think there was sufficient time to enable them to do that. I note TPSL 
refer to the Claims Management; Conduct of Business (CMCOB) sourcebook, and in 
particular, CMCOB 2.1.8 G which says, A firm should take all reasonable steps to 
investigate the existence and merits of each element of a potential claim before making or 
pursuing the claim or advising the customer themselves to make or pursue the claim. And, 
the guidance also refers to allowing lenders a reasonable amount of time to give a final 
response. 
TPSL say, given that there was no confirmation of PPI on the account in question, they 
shouldnt be expected to deviate from guidance provided by the regulator and refer a 
complaint to our service without evidence of PPI on an account. I do acknowledge this but 
its important to look at the specific circumstances of this case. The information shows 14 
months after sending the letter of complaint, and with the deadline date approaching, TPSL 
dont have a final response from Lender S  and in fact they dont even have an 
acknowledgment to the letter of complaint or confirmation on whether there is PPI on the 
account. So, while I agree in principle that firms should try to get all key information together 
prior to escalating it to our service, each case has to be looked at independently. And, in this 
case, despite trying, TPSL werent able to confirm the existence and merits of a potential 
claim over a significant period of time. And, they allowed a period far greater than what I 
believe shouldve been a reasonable amount of time for Lender S to provide a final 
response.       
The other point I will make is that there are occasions where no action appears to have been 
taken for two months at a time. For example, November 2018 to January 2019, and May 
2019 to July 2019. So, I think this contributed to the overall delay.     
Taking this all into account, I think there have been delays and I dont think TPSL were as 
proactive as they shouldve been in moving the complaint forward. I cant see TPSL took all 
reasonable steps to protect Mrs Vs position in the complaint to prevent it falling outside the 
deadline date. And, had TPSL taken the steps I have mentioned above, I believe, on the 
balance of probabilities, Mrs V wouldnt have found herself in a position where her complaint 
could potentially be out of time. So, Ive gone on to consider what the impact of this has 
been on Mrs V. 
Its clear from the information provided by Mrs V shes been left very worried and upset. And, 
the timeline notes provided by TPSL support this as it shows Mrs V querying why things are 
taking as long as they are. I think Mrs Vs frustration is understandable given that she first 
instructs TPSL in February 2018 and yet more than 18 months later theres a dispute about whether the complaint has been submitted by the deadline date. So, I think TPSL should pay 
compensation for the worry and upset caused to Mrs V and I think £200 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see our service is investigating Mrs Vs complaint about Lender S. So, while I think 
TPSL have made errors which have led to the situation Mrs V now finds herself in, I cant 
say there has been a loss of opportunity here. That will depend on the outcome in relation to 
the complaint against Lender S. If the complaint is upheld and its decided that Lender S 
have unreasonably declined Mrs Vs complaint, then the complaint is likely to progress and 
Mrs V will get an outcome. So, I dont think this scenario will have any impact on Mrs V. If 
however, its decided Lender Ss decision to decline the complaint is reasonable on the 
grounds the complaint was submitted after the deadline date, then Mrs V will have suffered a 
loss of opportunity here. And, in those circumstances, I think TPSL should pay a further 
£250 compensation to Mrs V.   
TPSL feel the investigators recommendation of £200 plus a further £250 is excessive given 
that there is no guarantee Mrs Vs complaint against Lender S wouldve been successful. I 
do acknowledge this, but if our service finds that Lender S were right to decline to look into 
the complaint, then Mrs V will never know what the outcome of that complaint wouldve 
been. Ive seen no evidence that the account didnt have any PPI or that the complaint has 
no merits. So, if our service decides Lender S werent unreasonable to decline to look into 
the complaint then there will be a loss of opportunity for Mrs V. And, that is what the 
additional compensation of £250 is for. This compensation isnt a speculative assessment on 
what compensation mightve followed a successful complaint against Lender S  rather its 
to reflect the lost opportunity to Mrs V to pursue the complaint to a final outcome.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that TPSL have delayed and also not taken reasonable steps to protect 
Mrs Vs complaint so they should pay compensation of £200 to Mrs V. Once Mrs Vs 
complaint against Lender S has been concluded by our service, if the outcome of that 
complaint is that Lender S werent unreasonable to decline to look into Mrs Vs complaint, 
then TPSL should pay an additional £250 compensation for loss of opportunity to Mrs V.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. The Protection Specialist Limited must take 
the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman