DRN-3246668
The complaint
Mrs J complains that an international transfer sent to her account with Revolut Ltd was 
returned. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs J sent a transfer of around $37,000 from a bank in the US to her 
Revolut USD account. Mrs J has confirmed the transfer was received without issue. 
On 2 November 2020 Mrs J instructed another transfer, this time for $102,000. The funds 
were sent from an account Mrs J held with a US bank via its intermediary (B) to Revoluts 
intermediary bank (J). J was responsible for processing the international transfer and 
ensuring funds reached Revolut so they could be applied to Mrs Js account. 
J received a Swift payment instruction but says the details included were incomplete. On 4 
November 2020 a message was sent via the Swift system from J to B with a request for 
further information. J said the Swift instruction contained insufficient beneficiary details which 
meant it wasnt able to complete the transfer. Another message was sent from J to B a few 
days later but after no response was received, the transfer was sent back on 9 November 
2020. 
During the above period, Mrs J was in contact with Revolut and asked it to investigate the 
delay and why the transfer hadnt been applied. Mrs J has pointed out she made another 
transfer using the same details a couple of weeks earlier. 
Mrs J complained that Revolut and its intermediary bank had made mistakes that led to her 
transfer being returned. Mrs J has explained she lost out on exchange rates as a result of 
the decision to return her transfer. Revolut didnt agree it had made mistakes or treated Mrs 
J unfairly by returning the transfer.
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Js complaint. They reviewed the information 
Revolut had provided and contacted J for further evidence. The investigator thought Revolut 
had dealt with Mrs Js case fairly and didnt agree it was responsible for mistakes or that J 
had unfairly returned the transfer. Mrs J asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs J has highlighted, there are lots of parties involved in the international transfer. Mrs 
Js bank in the US had an intermediary bank acting for it. And Revolut had its own 
intermediary, J, in place. In addition, when Mrs J sent a previous transfer in October 2020 
Revolut used a different intermediary. Mrs J has clearly spent lots of time and effort trying to 
get to the bottom of why her transfer was returned and I accept the number of parties 
involved has complicated matters. I want to explain that in this decision I can only look at 
Revolut and its intermediarys actions. I cant comment on whether her bank in the US or its 
intermediary, B, made mistakes. 
Mrs J has picked up that Revolut introduced a new intermediary bank between her October 
2020 and November 2020 transfers. Revolut has provided a copy of the Swift message it 
sent via the transfer service to participating banks in October 2020. The Swift message 
confirms that international USD payments would be made via J going forward. Updated 
details to help route further payments were supplied. So whilst I understand there was a 
change in intermediary bank arrangements between transfers, the new approach appears to 
have been communicated to other Swift users in advance. Despite this, it appears the 
transfer instruction didnt contain the necessary details J needed.  
J contacted B and said it didnt have useable beneficiary details. I can see the initial 
message was sent on 6 November 2020 and a response was chased before the funds were 
returned. Ive seen no evidence that shows J received a response to its Swift messages from 
B before the transfer was sent back. 
In the background to this, Mrs J was working hard to try and get Revolut and J to accept the 
transfer information. But the Swift transfer process is driven by the various parties involved 
and I dont think it was unreasonable for J to request confirmation of payment details from B 
before completing. As no response was received, Im satisfied Revoluts intermediary acted 
reasonably by returning the transfer. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J but I havent found that Revolut or its intermediary treated her 
unfairly. As Im satisfied Revolut dealt with Mrs Js complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman