DRN-4281247
The complaint
Ms M complains that Nationwide Building Society provided her with incorrect information 
which resulted in an unnecessary branch visit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details  
again here. Instead, Ill provide a brief summary and focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
Ms M says she was told she had to book an appointment in branch to upgrade her ISA 
savings account. But when she attended the appointment, she was informed the account 
could only be opened online. 
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong, but it paid Ms M £50 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint and he thought Nationwide had dealt 
with matters fairly. Ms M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for similar reasons. Ill 
explain why:
In order to uphold this complaint, I must find Nationwide gave inaccurate information 
when Ms M first asked to upgrade her ISA in branch and it needs to do more to 
compensate Ms M for the impact it had on her.
Ms M told us she was informed she had to have an appointment to upgrade to a new 
ISA account, and she wasnt told the account could only be opened online. 
Its difficult to know exactly what was said when Ms M initially booked the 
appointment in branch or when she later phoned to rearrange it. More specifically, I 
cant be sure what was discussed about the easy access ISA Ms M says she wanted 
to upgrade to. Its clear there was a misunderstanding, but there isnt enough 
evidence for me to fairly say Ms M was given misleading or incorrect information by 
the branch staff.
I appreciate Ms M was inconvenienced as she says she finished work early to attend 
the meeting when she didnt have to. And I understand it was frustrating to then be 
informed the account could only be opened online. A member of staff offered to help 
her open the account online, but I can understand why Ms M wouldnt want to do so 
at the counter. 
Nationwide paid Ms M £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Even if I found 
Nationwide did make an error, though Ive no doubt the wasted trip would have been 
frustrating, Im satisfied £50 is fair compensation in the circumstances for the level of 
inconvenience and upset Ms M experienced. 
Ms M says there were other occasions where she was given incorrect information 
and Nationwide paid £50 compensation in one such incident. She is also unhappy 
she was again told to visit the branch when she had issues opening the account 
online. I appreciate Ms Ms frustrations; however, I cant comment on her previous 
experience, or what happened later when she tried to upgrade to the new ISA online. 
If Ms M would like the subsequent issues investigated, she would need to raise a 
new complaint with Nationwide. This is because, I can only consider the specific 
circumstances of the complaint that was brought to us and addressed in Nationwides 
final response letter.
For these reasons, I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman