DRN-2267689
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way in which Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, 
trading as Skoda Financial Services (VWFS) handled end of term charges on a finance 
agreement she had with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I can see the business made mistakes when making charges they later agreed were 
unmerited and when they made a further request for payment of those charges.
Ive read Miss Cs explanation of how VWFSs actions impacted on her and I can understand 
that she was inconvenienced by their actions and that it must have been distressing to face 
unwarranted charges.
Whilst I understand that this could have had a financial impact on Miss C I dont think theres 
evidence that it did. Payments were returned quickly, and Ive not seen evidence of any 
impact on Miss Cs credit file.
I was really sorry to hear about Miss Cs recent bereavement and I understand it must have 
been a distressing time for her. But, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to expect 
VWFS to have been aware of that and to have therefore changed their approach to Miss C. 
I can see VWFS offered £50 compensation in respect of the direct debit charges they made 
but returned. I dont think they apologised or considered the distress and inconvenience their 
actions had had on Miss C and I think they should have.
  
Putting things right
I think, on balance, that VWFS should compensate Miss C for the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused her but, all things considered, I would agree with 
the investigator that a further £100 is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
pay Miss C an additional £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced;
issue an apology to Miss C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman