DRN-3080960
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined her 
property insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Mrs Y had a residential and commercial property insurance policy with LV. This provided 
cover for damage caused by malicious persons.
Mrs Y made a claim on her policy in 2021, for an incident she says happened in August 
2018. Mrs Y says she believes the patio doors of the insured property were damaged during 
an argument between her tenant and his partner.
LV declined the claim. They said their position had been prejudiced on account of the delay 
in reporting the matter to them. They also said they felt it was more likely to have been 
caused by accident, and that there was insufficient evidence to show it was done 
maliciously.
Mrs Y explained that the delay resulted from the fact that the property managing agents had 
taken responsibility to begin with. But as they later ignored her, she sought the help of her 
insurer. Mrs Y says insurance is supposed to be the last resort and that she had tried not to 
claim as another solution had presented itself.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so Mrs Y referred the matter to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ys concerns. He agreed that the claim had been made 
late, which wasnt in accordance with the policy terms. And he felt there was insufficient 
evidence to show that the damage had been caused maliciously.
Mrs Y didnt accept that and asked for an ombudsman decision. Mrs Y said the damage is 
still present and so LV could still assess the cause.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mrs Ys complaint is one I can uphold, Ill explain why.
The first consideration for me in this case is whether the late notification of claim allows LV 
to decline it. I dont believe that on its own does. Because while the policy requires claims to 
be notified promptly, I think it would be unfair to reject an otherwise valid claim solely due to 
late notification.
However, LV has argued that their position has been prejudiced, and that they think its more 
likely to have been caused by accident. Mrs Ys policy didnt include cover for accidental 
damage.
I appreciate Mrs Y says the damage is still there and could be assessed, but I dont think any 
inspection could determine the cause of it. I know this is unfortunate for Mrs Y, as it can be 
very difficult for her to be able to demonstrate the cause of damage  especially if she wasnt 
present at the time.
While shes suggested it likely happened during an argument between her tenant and his 
partner, that still doesnt necessarily mean it was done as a malicious act. The damage 
could have resulted from an accident during the argument, or possibly at another time. And 
even if excessive force was used, it doesnt automatically follow that the intention was to 
cause the damage.
Ive thought about what Mrs Y has said about the managing agent saying they would take 
care of repairs, as it was them who sourced the tenant. But that doesnt necessarily mean 
the damage was caused maliciously either, because there may be a number of reasons for 
them to take responsibility.
Overall, I dont think Mrs Y has adequately demonstrated that the damage was caused by 
malicious persons.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman