DRN-2612509
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H arranged to withdraw £8,000 from a National Westminster Bank Plc 
branch, but when they arrived there wasnt any record of the appointment and they were 
denied the cash withdrawal.
  
What happened
During the pandemic, Mr and Mrs H have been shielding. They originally held £4,000 
emergency reserves at home, for emergencies such as a boiler breakdown etc. But 
when the country went into lockdown, Mr and Mrs H needed to use their cash reserves 
to repay neighbours for helping with shopping.
In June 2020 they wanted to replenish their emergency fund and take out additional 
funds for future lockdowns and periods of isolation. So they called NatWest to arrange 
an appointment at a branch to collect £8,000. Mr and Mrs H were informed this had 
been arranged for the following day.
When they arrived there was no knowledge of the appointment. And after discussing the 
matter in branch the withdrawal request was declined. During this time, it was arranged 
that the daily debit card withdrawal limit would be increased to £1,000. Mr and Mrs H left 
without the funds they wished to withdraw.
Mr and Mrs H complained. NatWest upheld their complaint insofar as they were given 
incorrect information over the phone about an appointment being arranged to collect the 
funds and they shouldnt have been told the withdrawal had been agreed as that wasnt 
something the call handler could authorised. It paid them £100 compensation for this 
error. However, it didnt believe it had done anything wrong in relation to not allowing the 
withdrawal, as it owed them a duty of care and the branch had been following that 
process.
Our investigator was satisfied NatWest had fairly resolved the complaint. She was satisfied
£100 compensation was fair for the wrong information being given. However, she was 
also satisfied the bank was following its processes and procedures when declining the 
withdrawal request, a decision it was entitled to make.
Mr and Mrs H have asked for the matter to be reviewed. They remain unhappy with the 
whole situation, particularly as they have withdrawn larger sums in a similar manner in the 
past. They are now without the funds needed and so can no longer ask neighbours to help 
with shopping and are vulnerable to home emergencies. They do not find it helpful to have 
money sitting in their account which can only be accessed by visits to a cash dispenser, 
during times of further lockdown and isolation. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 January 2021. I said (I have amended a typo, 
highlighted in bold):
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr and Mrs H, and NatWest, that although I have only 
summarised the background and arguments above, I have read and considered 
everything provided.
NatWest has been able to provide the initial call between Mr H and NatWest on 17 June 
2020, in which Mr H explained he had tried to withdraw £8,000 from a post office branch 
but was told he would need a one-off code to complete it. As this wasnt something the call 
handler was aware they facilitated, a call-back with a manager was arranged.
Unfortunately, NatWest hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call with the 
manager later in the day. It does, however, accept that it gave Mr H the wrong information 
about the withdrawal being approved and an appointment being arranged to collect the 
funds from a NatWest branch the following day.
To the extent that Mr and Mrs H were given the wrong information, Im satisfied £100 
compensation already paid is a fair reflection of the impact that wrong information 
caused. But that is not the end of the matter. Mr and Mrs H were trying to withdraw 
funds and I understand they left the branch without anything.
I fully accept there are situations where not allowing a withdrawal is the correct course of 
action. Such occasions are accounted for in the terms and conditions. These include, but 
are not limited to, believing security details havent been kept safe or any terms of the 
agreement being broken. NatWest has been unable to provide anything to show why it 
declined Mr and Mrs Hs request to withdraw funds other than saying it wasnt the right 
thing to do.
The starting position is that customers are entitled to access the funds within their 
accounts, subject to any account restrictions if any are applicable. And it isnt for banks to 
generally interfere with what customers might want those funds for  unless it has 
legitimate concerns, for example, if they think its customer is being scammed. I havent 
been provided with any such reasons here, nor has NatWest been able to explain why 
releasing the funds wasnt the right thing to do. Mr and Mrs H had been through a period 
of shielding and had dwindled the reserves they held at home. And its clear Mr and Mrs H 
like to hold an emergency cash fund at home. That is a choice they are entitled to make.
It doesnt appear NatWest fairly took into account the need Mr and Mrs H had, and that 
they wanted to ensure they had cash reserves for any future lockdown and shielding 
eventualities; something that has come to fruition. And whilst I accept NatWest did 
increase their daily cash withdrawal limits for ATMs to £1,000, which would help to some 
extent, that would necessitate several trips at a time when Mr and Mrs H understandably 
had wanted to keep their trips outside to a minimum. 
Im not persuaded that NatWest has shown the decision to decline Mr and Mrs Hs 
withdrawal request was fair, reasonable or in their interests. As such Im currently minded 
to find it should have allowed the withdrawal.
Even had I accepted that it was fair to decline the full withdrawal, which I dont, Im unclear 
as to why NatWest wouldnt allow any withdrawal of even part of the amount. 
I was minded to request NatWest allow the withdrawal, and that it should facilitate the 
delivery of the funds to Mr and Mrs H if they require. I was also minded to ask it to pay them 
an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused. 
Mr and Mrs H have, in the main, accepted my provisional findings. They have confirmed they 
still need the funds and would require them to be delivered as they are still shielding. 
However, they disagree that £200 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they have been put to. NatWest has also made further submissions. In summary, they are:
It is concerned at the level of funds that Mr and Mrs H say they need, simply to keep 
in the house, particularly when £500 can be requested each week (by them both, 
making £1,000 in total). 
It considers this could expose Mr and Mrs H to potential fraud or scams, such as 
bogus workmen. And it is in receipt of regular police alerts where account holders 
have been coached into requesting funds. The limit of £500 per week for the cash 
delivery was set at that amount to limit the exposure of customers and the bank to 
fraud and scams. 
It is prepared to make the delivery in two parts if this is required by the ombudsman, 
but one of its Customer Protection Managers will call Mr and Mrs H prior to the 
withdrawal, to go through the usual questions it asks for large and unusual 
withdrawals. It will also provide some scam education and if Mr and Mrs H are happy 
to proceed, they will arrange the delivery; there is a possibility this withdrawal might 
also trigger its fraud alert systems, but it will leave notes on the system about making 
the payment. 
It would like it noted that is an exception to its usual process. It said previous 
decisions have made to say the bank didnt intervene enough with large withdrawals 
and would seek to refer to this decision should Mr and Mrs H raise a subsequent 
complaint they have fallen victim to a scam in relation to this withdrawal. It also has 
concerns that the published decision will be available to scammers which could 
potentially expose customers to the risk of being exploited because of this case, and 
it wants it noted this is a one-off exception that wont be repeated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to explain that all cases at the ombudsman service are decided on their 
individual facts and circumstances. My decision here is based on the facts before me and 
what another ombudsman might decide is appropriate redress on another case is not 
something I can interfere with. As NatWest knows, where a final decision on the merits has 
been accepted by the complainants it becomes legally binding. 
I also feel I need to add that although our decisions are published, they are anonymised for 
the very reason of the complainants not being identifiable from them. To the extent NatWest 
worries of scammers using our decisions to scam victims, I dont think it would be possible 
for them to identify who those complainants were. 
I understand its more general concerns that account holders can be coached by scammers 
to withdraw funds from their accounts. And I also understand that complaints have been 
upheld in the past where we havent felt a bank had protected its customers from financial 
harm sufficiently. But NatWest has not been able to show that those were the type of 
concerns it had when it declined to allow Mr and Mrs Hs withdrawal. Whilst it didnt think it 
was the right thing to do, it has not been able to say why it made that decision in light of Mr 
and Mrs H needing the funds to protect against periods of isolation and shielding, such that I 
think that decision was fair. 
I agree with its general concern that it might not always be advisable to hold large sums of 
money in the home. This can be for various reasons such as being scammed by fraudsters, being burgled, or some other unfortunate reason, like a flood or fire leading to a loss of 
funds. However, if Mr and Mrs H still require the funds, they do so in the knowledge they are 
open to such risk, which might not result in a reimbursement of any lost funds.  
Mr and Mrs H have confirmed they still require the funds to be delivered as they are currently 
shielding as per government guidelines; and they need to repay neighbours that have helped 
with shopping and the like in the past. However, they dont feel the £200 compensation I 
recommended was reflective of the time and trouble they have been put to in trying to obtain 
these funds. 
I do accept they have been waiting for some time. However, I also have also taken into 
account that when the initial withdrawal was declined, NatWest did increase their daily ATM 
withdrawal limit to £1,000. And this was at a time when the government was easing 
restrictions to shield. NatWest also had its cash delivery service, which Mr and Mrs H could 
have used. As they did have other forms of access to their money, overall, I remain of the 
view an additional £200 is fair reflection of the trouble they have been put to. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc. I require it to:
Allow Mr and Mrs H to withdraw the £8,000 as originally requested; and
arrange delivery of that to Mr and Mrs H, so they dont need to attend a branch; and
if NatWest still wishes to ask its security questions, it should contact Mr and Mrs H to 
arrange that;
and pay Mr and Mrs H an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman