DRN-3376756
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the £10,000 he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr R made a £10,000 transfer from his HSBC current account using its mobile 
banking facility. He thought he was making the payment for an investment opportunity into a 
property bond, but later found out hed been the victim of a scam and had actually sent his 
money to a fraudster. 
Mr R told HSBC what had happened and asked it to refund the money. But the bank didnt 
think it was liable for his loss. Unhappy with this, as well as the overall customer service hed 
received from HSBC, Mr R raised a complaint. He thinks HSBC shouldve warned him about 
the risk of scams when he made the £10,000 transfer, like it did when he tried to make 
another payment a few months later.
HSBC said:
It processed the payment in line with Mr Rs instructions;
The type of payment Mr R made offers no protection from scams; and
It did everything it was supposed to do after being made aware Mr R had been the 
victim of a scam. It contacted the beneficiary bank to see if any of his money 
remained, but it did not. So, a refund or recovery is not possible.
HSBC didnt comment on the customer service issues within its response.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. But our investigator didnt think HSBC shouldve 
reasonably been expected to prevent the fraud. But, they agreed that HSBC couldve 
provided better customer service to Mr R. They noted that the bank had paid him £50 in 
recognition of this, which it has since agreed to increase to £150 in total. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review and decision. Prior to this final
decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties in which I said that I intended to
uphold Mr Rs complaint. Mr R agreed with this, although HSBC didnt.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Theres no dispute Mr R fell victim to a sophisticated scam, and I appreciate why he feels
that his money should be returned to him. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties hes faced since
falling victim to this scam. This cant have been easy for him at all.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding what is fair and
reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time. And I consider HSBC should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and 
scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R
when he made the transfer using its online banking platform, or whether it shouldve done
something more.
Its not in dispute that Mr R authorised the transfer and, as Ive already set out, HSBC had
an obligation to follow his instructions. But, as Ive explained above, I think HSBC should
also have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
With this in mind, Ive looked at Mr Rs bank statements for the months leading up to the
disputed transaction. I can see two months prior to the disputed transaction, Mr R made an
external payment of a larger, but similar amount, to an account held with another bank. I
understand that this was to another account held in his name. In view of this, I can see, to an
extent, why HSBCs systems didnt pick up on the disputed payment of £10,000. However,
given that the disputed transaction was for a large value and to a new payee, in my
judgement, this shouldve stood out as a suitably unusual transaction such that HSBC
shouldve intervened and contacted Mr R about its purpose. I note HSBCs systems did pick
up a smaller transaction to the same payee a few months later and contacted Mr R to
discuss it.
Had HSBC contacted Mr R about his initial payment of £10,000 too, Im satisfied that this
type of scam  an investment scam  wouldve been well-known to HSBC at the time he was
making the payment. And, had it questioned him about his reasons for the payment, Im
satisfied it wouldve been concerned that the investment Mr R believed to be genuine was in
fact a scam and warned him as such.
Ive thought carefully about whether HSBC asking Mr R probing questions such as what
the investment was for and its expected returns, what paperwork he had received, how
he had been contacted and whether he had done sufficient checks on the alleged
investment firm  including whether the firm was regulated wouldve prevented his loss.
On the balance of probabilities, had HSBC asked these questions and provided Mr R
with a sufficient warning about investment scams, Im satisfied he wouldnt have made
the payment.I say this because Mr R thought he was getting an annual dividend of 12.2%. I think this
shouldve been a cause for concern for HSBC  he appears to have thought this was a
secured investment, and the rate is above the typical return rate for regulated investment
products of this nature. Also, the documentation Mr R received from the alleged
investment firm, explained that there was an added level of security offered by the
security trustee who is independent of them and would reimburse investor capital and
interest should payments not be made. This suggests that the investment was risk free.
But, unless the investment was of high risk, a return rate of 12.2% seems too good to be
true. And I think this shouldve caused HSBC to realise that something was amiss and
warn Mr R about investment scams and their key characteristics.
Mr R has told us that when HSBC contacted him about its concerns for a second payment to
the same payee, two months after the £10,000 transfer, he was concerned that he may have
been the victim of a scam and carried out further research into the alleged investment
company. At this point, he says he decided not to go ahead with the second payment. In my
judgement, this shows that Mr R exercised further caution after HSBC flagged the attempted
payment. And this further strengthens my belief that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the
initial £10,000 transfer had HSBC contacted him and questioned him in the way Ive set out
above. As such, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint and ask HSBC to refund
the £10,000 to Mr R, plus interest.
Ive also considered whether Mr R should bear some responsibility in terms of his
actions. However, its clear that up to and including the time of the payment authorisation
he was totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the
consequences of his actions. He thought that he was sensibly investing his money with a
professional investment company. Im satisfied he was simply the unwitting and
blameless victims of a clever fraudster. And HSBC was the professional in financial
matters; Mr R was the layperson.
Recovering Mr Rs money
Mr R has raised concerns with the action HSBC took after he notified it that hed been the
victim of a scam.
HSBCs records suggest it waited a number of hours before contacting the beneficiary bank 
after Mr R reported the scam. However, even if HSBC had taken action [as soon as it 
received] Mr Rs report, Ive seen evidence from the beneficiary bank to show that all of Mr 
Rs money  was removed by its customer the same day it was paid in. So unfortunately, by 
the time Mr R realised hed been the victim of a scam and informed HSBC, all of his money 
had been spent by the fraudster. Unfortunately, its a common fraudster tactic to remove 
money from the receiving account as quickly as possible, before the victim of fraud realises 
what has happened, and this is exactly what happened in Mr Rs case. 
customer service
Mr R is very unhappy with the way HSBC handled his fraud claim, and the customer service
it provided to him.
Mr R believes that HSBC didnt take his fraud claim seriously. He said it wasnt able to
answer a number of his questions about the beneficiary bank, and on two separate
occasions when it told him it would carry out a full investigation, it sent him a letter on the
same day with its conclusions.
The beneficiary account was held with a completely different bank, so HSBC wouldnt have
been able to answer any questions about the operation of that account. So I cant say it didanything wrong there. And I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC didnt take Mr Rs
fraud claim seriously. Its not uncommon for a bank to decide the outcome of a fraud claim
the same day it receives notification from its customer. Ive seen the letter HSBC sent to Mr
R after it had concluded its investigations, and I think it clearly explained its position, but that
it would make contact with the beneficiary bank.
Whilst the timeframe for a response from the beneficiary bank was out of its control, HSBC
did tell Mr R it would update him within 20 working days. This didnt happen and Mr R had to
chase the bank himself. I appreciate it wouldve caused him some inconvenience explaining
the situation to more than one member of staff when he called. And, between September
2019 and January 2020, he didnt know if any of his money was remaining in the beneficiary
bank to be recovered. I accept this wouldve been a time of worry for Mr R, especially after
discovering hed been the innocent victim of a scam. I do think HSBC couldve handled this a
lot better, and its unfortunate that Mr R had to chase the bank himself.
But when thinking about the amount of compensation HSBC should pay to Mr R to cover its
customer service failings, I think the £150 in total its already offered is fair and reasonable,
and is what I wouldve required HSBC to pay if it hadnt already proposed this amount.
Overall, and in the circumstances, I currently minded to say that HSBC should fairly and
reasonably reimburse Mr R the £10,000 he lost, together with interest to compensate
him for being deprived of his money. Mr R has told us that the £10,000 was held in a
current account with a different bank before he sent it to his HSBC account, and then on
to the fraudster. He says he wouldve invested it elsewhere if he hadnt been defrauded
of this money. As we cannot say exactly what he would have done with his funds had he
not been deprived of them, I find that 8% simple interest is appropriate.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr R didnt have anything further to add. But HSBC
disagreed, and said in summary:
It doesnt accept that the payment was sufficiently unusual or out of character in the 
context of Mr Rs account activity that it was obliged to flag it on its systems.
Its unfair to draw any conclusions from the fact that a later transaction to the same 
payee was flagged. Its automated monitoring systems examine multiple elements of 
a transaction, and transactions can flag for reasons other than the size of the 
payment. 
Mr R spent 3-4 weeks investigating the merchant that he sent the £10,000 to. It 
considers it very unlikely that Mr R wouldve accepted that this was a scam from a 
single telephone conversation with one of its agents when he had spent such a long 
period of time looking into the merchant, and had received a brochure setting out its 
credentials.
It wasnt until September 2019, almost four months after HSBC intervention on the 
second payment, that Mr R became concerned and started finding negative reviews 
about the purported investment online. Even if HSBC had researched the purported 
investment at the time of the payment, which it does not accept it should have, the 
reviews were not yet posted online, so it is unlikely they could have uncovered the 
scam or dissuaded Mr R from making the payment.
I said that 12.2% return was too good to be true. However, I made unsupported 
assumptions about the amount of information its call centre staff wouldve gleaned 
from Mr R. And, at the time of the payment, there are factors which wouldve 
encouraged HSBC that the was a legitimate transaction. When referencing case law, HSBC noted the general principle that those who use 
services provided by payment systems should take responsibility for their decisions. 
HSBC said its to be expected that consumers will compare rates of return and the 
risk attached to investments. HSBC does not accept that a reasonable consumer, 
particularly one who had carried out research over 3-4 weeks, could have reasonably 
believed that the investment was risk free. Therefore, Mr R should share at least 
partial responsibility for his loss, and,
My awarding of 8% interest, rather than interest at the account rate, provides a 
windfall for Mr R. This is particularly inappropriate for investment cases where the 
complainant effectively gains at the banks expense from making a speculative 
investment. Also, courts are recognizing the sustained period of interest rates and 
awarding interests on judgements well below 8%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the considerations I set out in my provisional decision, which 
Ive reproduced above and which I incorporate into this decision. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same overall conclusion as I set out in my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
This is a finely balanced case and Ive thought carefully about HSBCs response to my 
provisional decision. But the British Standards Institution (BSI) code from protecting 
customers from financial harm as a result of fraud, which came into effect in October 2017, 
gives recommendations for how banks can protect its customers from fraud and financial 
abuse. And it also explains how to recognise consumers who might be at risk. A payment to 
a new payee, and a payment for a large amount, are two examples of what might indicate 
fraud or financial abuse as set out in the code. Whilst I appreciate HSBCs comments that its 
fraud detection systems can flag payments for reasons other than their size, Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision why I think this transaction shouldve stood out as 
suitably unusual such that HSBC shouldve intervened and contacted Mr R about its 
purpose. And I maintain my position that HSBC shouldve contacted Mr R and asked 
proportionate and probing questions to satisfy itself that Mr R wasnt at risk of fraud. And 
during this call, it should also have provided appropriate warnings about investment scams. 
HSBC says that I made unsupported assumptions about how much information its member 
of staff wouldve obtained from Mr R about the investment had it contacted him as I think it 
should. But thats exactly my point as to why I think it was appropriate to ask detailed 
questions to Mr R about the investment, including the rate of return. 
I should be clear that I dont consider HSBCs staff shouldve identified the full nature of this 
scam. Nor do I think that it was HSBCs responsibility to conduct checks itself. I appreciate it 
has noted that Mr R had carried out research into the investment across a 3-4 week period. 
But there were clear red flags here including the rate of return (at 12.2%), the fact that the 
payment was being made overseas, and that the investment was apparently risk free. 
HSBC shouldve discussed these aspects with Mr R and provided him with warnings about 
illegitimate and cloned investment companies and the fact his money would not be returned 
if the investment turned out to be a scam. 
Well never know what wouldve happened if HSBC had had the kind of conversation I think 
it shouldve at the time Mr R made the payment. As there wasnt a conversation, I need to consider what I believe is most likely to have happened if this had happened. On balance, 
Im persuaded Mr R would have taken HSBCs warnings seriously and wouldnt have risked 
losing £10,000 once he knew of the red flags and the fact there was no protection if anything 
went wrong. Mr R had no experience of investing and didnt know there were significant risks 
in investing in this company. He said prior to this, in the last 15 years, hed only ever 
invested his money in an Individual Savings Account (ISA). Based on what hes told our 
service, Im persuaded he wouldve trusted what HSBC told him about the red flags and not 
gone ahead and made the payment.
HSBC believes that Mr R should share at least some responsibility for his loss. It says he 
shouldve carried out a basic comparison on the different rates of returns on investments 
across the market at the time. It says based on the research he says he carried out; it 
doesnt accept its reasonable for Mr R to have believed that this investment was risk free. 
However, from the evidence Ive seen, this was clearly a sophisticated scam, and Mr R was 
clearly taken in by the fraudsters and believed this was a genuine investment, based on the 
communications hed had with its staff and the documentation hed received from them. Its 
common behaviour of fraudsters to gain victims trust by appearing to be as professional and 
as legitimate as possible, and I maintain my belief that because of this, Mr R thought that he 
was sensibly investing his money with a professional investment company. After all, why 
would he have gone ahead with the payment if he didnt think this was genuine? As an 
inexperienced investor, based on the communications Ive seen and considered, I can 
appreciate why Mr R believed everything was above board and, in my judgement, because I 
consider that HSBC was the professional and Mr R was the layperson, Im satisfied that 
proportionate and probing questions from HSBC, as well as warnings about different types of 
investment scams, wouldve prevented Mr Rs loss. So, with this in mind and in the 
circumstances of this particular case, I dont agree with HSBC that its reasonable for Mr R to 
share responsibility for his loss.
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC made comments as to why it doesnt think this 
services normal rate of compensatory interest of 8% simple per year (because Mr R was 
deprived of his funds) is appropriate in this case. But I dont agree. Mr R was looking for an 
investment, and we dont know what interest rate he wouldve received on any such 
(genuine) investment, or when this wouldve been put in place. We also dont know, what 
extra costs Mr R might have incurred as a result of not having his £10,000. So, because of 
this, I wont be departing from our normal award of interest in such circumstances at 8% 
simple per year.
Therefore, having considered all of the circumstances, I dont think my provisional findings 
need to change. And I adopt them in full in this final decision. I therefore think that fair 
compensation is for HSBC to refund the value of the disputed transaction to Mr R, plus  
interest on that amount at 8% simple from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that HSBC UK Bank Plc:
Returns the £10,000 to Mr R within 28 days of the date of this decision. 
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum, from when the disputed payment was made, to
the date of settlement.*
Pay Mr R a total of £150 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.*If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman