DRN-3187229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim for subsidence on 
their home insurance policy.    
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a home insurance policy with Aviva. In 2020 they made a claim under the 
subsidence cover after noticing movement of their conservatory. Aviva sent a contractor out 
to inspect the damage and subsequently declined the claim. It said the conservatory had 
inadequate foundations and this is why the subsidence had occurred. And the policy 
excludes damage caused by defective design or faulty workmanship so said the damage 
wouldnt be covered. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. They said they had only 
bought the house two years previously and had no reason to believe the foundations were 
insufficient. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said that guidance for new buildings recommend 
foundations are built at a depth of 1,800mm and their conservatorys were only 700mm 
deep. So it was satisfied this was insufficient and the exclusion applied.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that the guidelines Aviva had referred to wouldnt fairly apply as they were for new brick 
builds and not conservatories. She said while conservatories arent subject to building 
regulations, shed except builders to take any relevant guidance into account when building 
the structure. And guidance provided by Aviva for building conservatories at the time said 
the foundations should be 1,000mm. However she said as the roots of the tree causing the 
subsidence were found at between 900 and 1,600mm she didnt think this would have 
stopped the subsidence from occurring. So didnt think Aviva had done enough to show that 
it occurred due to poor workmanship and therefore it wasnt fair for it to apply the exclusion.
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators opinion, however Aviva didnt. It said it thought as 
the roots were found from 900mm the subsidence wouldnt have occurred if the foundations 
were built to a depth of 1,000mm. It asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril  
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
to prove an exclusion in the policy applies.
In this case, Aviva appears to have accepted that there is an insured peril  subsidence 
caused by an oak tree. However it has said that the subsidence has occurred because the 
foundations of the conservatory werent built deep enough into the ground. And it says this 
means the exclusion for faulty workmanship applies. The policy states, under the section for 
subsidence cover:
We will not cover:
damage caused by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship.
So I can see that subsidence claims are excluded where the damage has been caused by 
faulty workmanship. I need to decide whether Aviva has applied this exclusion fairly in this 
case. 
In its assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs claim, Aviva has pointed to new buildings guidance and 
buildings regulations. As our investigator said, these regulations and the guidance dont 
apply to conservatories but instead to brick builds. So I agree it wouldnt be fair to say that 
just because the structure didnt meet these requirements, that the conservatory was poorly 
built. 
However, that doesnt mean we wouldnt consider these at all. We would expect builders to 
ensure that any structure they built would be suitable, and the foundations would support the 
structure for a reasonable period of time. To ensure that, wed expect them to consider a 
number of factors, including the ground conditions and good building practise.
Aviva has provided a good practice guide for building conservatories that was in place in 
2015 when Mr and Mrs Hs was built. As this guidance is specifically for conservatories I 
think it provides a reasonable indication of suitable foundations for this type of structure.
The guide says that conservatories built on medium clay shrinkage soil should have 
foundations at a minimum depth of 1,000mm. So I think its reasonable to say that this would 
have been the suitable depth for the foundations of Mr and Mrs Hs conservatory. 
As the conservatory has foundations of 700mm, I can see this is under the minimum 
recommended in the guide.
However I also need to consider whether Aviva has applied the exclusion fairly here. And to 
say it has, Id need to be satisfied that the reason the structure has subsidence damage is 
because the foundations werent deep enough. And I dont agree Aviva has shown this to be 
the case. 
Avivas engineer identified a nearby oak tree as the cause of the subsidence. And in its 
report it said the roots causing the problem had been found at a depth of between 900 and 
1,600mm. So if the foundations of Mr and Mrs Hs conservatory had been built at the 
recommended depth of 1,000mm, its likely that the roots would be present beneath them 
and the subsidence would have still occurred. So Im not satisfied that the subsidence has 
only happened due to faulty workmanship and therefore dont agree Aviva has acted fairly by 
applying the exclusion.
Aviva has said that it believes the subsidence wouldnt have happened if the foundations 
were built to a depth of 1,000mm as the roots were found from 900mm. However it hasnt 
provided any expert evidence or a report to substantiate this. When applying an exclusion to 
decline a claim, the onus is on the insurer to prove it applies. And here, I dont think it has 
done enough to prove this. I therefore agree with our investigator that Aviva should accept 
the claim in line with the other policy terms and conditions, without applying the exclusion for 
faulty workmanship.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to:
Consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim for subsidence of their conservatory in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, without applying the exclusion for faulty workmanship.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman