DRN-3462439
The complaint
Mr C complains that Novia Financial Plc (Novia) facilitated fraudulent withdrawals from his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) without taking due care and diligence.  
What happened
Mr C had a SIPP which was administrated by Novia. He was represented in his pension 
planning by an independent financial advisor, who Ill refer to as [X]. 
On 18 March 2020 Novia received a request from [X] to withdraw £40,000 from Mr Cs SIPP, 
which it completed. This was followed by further requests on 30 March 2020 to withdraw 
£90,000 and £140,000 on 14 April 2020. These were also completed by Novia and the 
requested funds were transferred to the account certified by [X].
On 29 April 2020, having received a request, apparently from Mr C, to withdraw a further 
£170,000, [X] contacted Mr C and it was found that all the withdrawal requests had been 
made fraudulently. [X] contacted Novia and instructed them to cancel the latest withdrawal 
request and explained the previous three withdrawal requests were not genuine. It was 
discovered by [X] that fraudsters had gained access to Mr Cs email account and had sent 
the withdrawal requests to [X], who, accepting that they were genuine, forwarded the 
requests to Novia for action. The bank that had received the funds from the three fraudulent 
transactions was unable to retrieve the funds so Mr C had lost a very significant proportion of 
his pension fund.
Mr C complained to Novia that it shouldnt have acted on the withdrawal requests. But in its 
final response letter, Novia said it was entitled to act on the instructions it received from [X] 
so didnt think it had any responsibility for the losses Mr C had incurred.
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint against Novia to our Service. He also 
complained about the actions of [X] which has been considered separately and does not 
form part of this decision. 
Our Investigator, having considered everything, didnt think Novia should be held responsible 
for Mr Cs losses. He thought Novia acted fairly when it said it was entitled to trust the 
information given to it by a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised business, such as 
[X]. And our Investigator thought that Novia had not been negligent or unreasonable in its 
reliance on the certified document it had been provided by [X].
But Mr C didnt agree so the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of the impact that being a victim of a fraud of this nature will have had on Mr C. Im 
really sorry that he found himself in this position, with the consequences that hes faced as a 
result of the fraudsters actions. 
There is no doubt that the three completed withdrawal requests from Mr Cs SIPP, and the 
one attempted withdrawal, were fraudulent, and Mr C has suffered a very significant financial 
loss as a result. But what I need to decide in this complaint, is whether Novia should bear 
some, or all of the responsibility for these losses. And to do this Ive focussed on what Novia 
did, and whether I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In coming to this decision Ive taken into account the rules set out by the regulator, the FCA, 
to which all financially regulated businesses, such as Novia, should abide. The part of these 
rules most relevant to this complaint is found under the Systems and Controls source book 
(SYSC) under SYSC 3.2.6 (R) which says:
A firm must take reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and 
controls for compliance with applicable requirements and standards under 
the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to 
further financial crime.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr C, but I agree with the view of the Investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons. Im satisfied that Novia acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with SYSC, and shouldnt be held responsible, even in part, for Mr Cs losses. Ill explain.
In addition to the FCA rules above, Ive considered the terms and conditions laid out by 
Novia for its administration of Mr Cs SIPP. The relevant sections are as follows:
5.4.1 You must have a UK bank account which must be held in your name. If we are 
paying into bank account for the first time, we will conduct an electronic identity 
check and if unsuccessful we may require additional documentation to verify your 
identity. This can be a certified copy of your passport, driving licence or national 
identity card and will ordinarily be provided by your Adviser from their records. It 
enables us to validate your signature. We may also require a copy of a bank 
statement dated within the last 3 months.
The terms and conditions go on to say:
The Novia Service is only available where you have appointed an Adviser. Your 
Adviser will describe their services to you in a separate agreement to these Terms 
and Conditions. Novia only accepts business from FCA authorised Advisers.
Novia requires instructions to be sent to us by your Adviser using our services, 
except where you exercise your right to cancel, you instruct us to close your account 
or you are exercising a right under pensions freedom.
The terms and conditions also say:
 10.7 Novia may rely and act upon any instructions given to Novia by the Firm or a 
User electronically through the Extranet or which purport to have been given by the 
Firm or a User where authority for such Users has not been withdrawn by notification 
from the Firm to Novia, and which are accepted in good faith and without negligence 
on the part of Novia.
10.8 Novia will not accept any liability for instructions submitted by the Firm that 
subsequently are shown to be fraudulent. 
So, Im satisfied that Novia had systems in place to meet the requirements of the regulator to try and reduce the risk of financial crime. But I also need to be satisfied that it has 
implemented these systems fairly and has not been negligent in this case. 
Mr C was financially represented by advisers [X] who, although based outside of the UK, 
were providing services in the UK with an EEA services passport, and as such were FCA 
authorised. 
[X] conducted all communication and instructions on Mr Cs behalf. But even though the 
requests for the withdrawals came from [X], an FCA authorised business, Novia still had 
responsibility, as per 5.4.1 above, to satisfy itself that the receiving account for withdrawals 
was genuine. And I can see that when it did conduct this check it failed as the account 
which was nominated to receive the funds didnt appear to be linked to Mr C. Novia has 
explained its standard procedure in these cases would be to request a certified copy of the 
bank statement from [X]. But [X] had already sent a recent bank statement, duly certified by 
its director, so Novia relied upon this as its verification that the receiving bank account was 
indeed in Mr Cs control and genuine. 
Given that [X] were FCA regulated advisers, acting on Mr Cs behalf, and had provided 
Novia with a director-certified bank statement evidencing the authenticity of the destination 
account, I think Novia acted fairly and reasonably here. I think Novia was entitled to trust the 
processes [X] had in place, and the information it was given by [X] upon which it relied to 
facilitate the transactions.
So although I have considerable sympathy for the awful situation he finds himself in, Im 
satisfied Novia should not be held responsible for the financial losses suffered by Mr C from 
the fraudulent withdrawals from his SIPP.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman