DRN-2235442
The complaint
Mr E complains about Arrow Global Limiteds actions when trying to recover a debt. 
What happened
In December 2011 Arrow acquired a credit card debt from the original lender. On 15 January 
2012 Arrow sent Mr E a notice of assignment to confirm the balance of £2,610 and change 
in ownership of the debt. The original lender also wrote to Mr E and confirmed the 
outstanding balance and new arrangement. 
Mr E has told us that Arrow has appointed different collections agents since 2011 and that 
he made some small payments in an attempt to halt the collections activity. The last 
payment Mr E made was for £5 in December 2014.
Last year, solicitors acting for Arrow contacted Mr E and advised legal action was being 
considered. Mr E asked Arrow to provide copies of his documents under a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR) in April 2019 but the information wasnt sent to him until August 
2019. 
Mr E has provided medical evidence to show he has suffered with depression for many 
years and throughout the period Arrow and its agents have contacted him. Mr E says the 
contact received from Arrow was upsetting, intrusive and unnecessarily aggressive. 
In November 2019 Mr E complained about various issues relating to Arrow and the original 
lenders actions. Mr E said the debt was statue barred, that Arrow took too long to comply 
with his DSAR and that the collections activity had been unreasonable. Arrow responded to 
Mr E on 16 January 2020 but didnt agree errors had been made. It said the debt isnt statue 
barred and didnt agree that the collections action it had taken was aggressive. Arrow said 
there is an outstanding debt to pay and it has a legitimate reason to contact Mr E. Arrow also 
advised it complied with the DSAR as soon as Mr E provided the required documents. 
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Es complaint but thought Arrow had dealt with it 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr E asked to appeal and pointed out that Arrows 
agents had continued to contact him about the debt, despite being advised that the account 
was subject to an ongoing complaint. Arrow has since confirmed collections activity has 
been suspended. Mr E asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the investigators recent correspondence with Mr E, this service is only able to 
look at issues that occurred in the six years before he complained. Mr complained to Arrow 
in November 2019, so we can look back to November 2013. Mr E has confirmed he 
understands the approach taken. 
Mr E has raised a number of separate concerns regarding his credit card account as well as 
Arrows actions. For clarity, Id like to explain that in this decision Im only going to talk about 
Arrows actions since November 2013. Arrow didnt approve the original borrowing and 
hasnt applied any interest to Mr Es debt. A complaint about those issues would need to be 
made to the original lender. 
Mr E has told us that he feels the debt is statute barred but Arrow says it isnt. As our 
investigator has said, its not the role of this service to say whether a debt is statute barred, 
only a court can do that. We decide complaints based on what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of a case. A debt is generally considered to be statue barred if no payments 
or acknowledgement of it are made for a six year period. I leave it to Mr E to decide if he 
wishes to obtain legal advice about whether the debt is statute barred or not. 
I can see that the DSAR wasnt completed following Mr Es first request. But Arrow has 
forwarded copies of its correspondence with Mr E and I can see that it was waiting for him to 
provide identification so it could comply. Im satisfied that Arrow responded in good time 
once Mr E had sent it the required identification. 
It appears that the main focus of Mr Es complaint relates to Arrows long standing attempts 
to obtain repayment of the debt. Mr E has pointed out that Arrow has assigned at least five 
collections specialists (some more than once) since 2011, to try and recover the debt. As 
Ive said above, our rules mean I can only look back to November 2013, so Ive focused on 
the collection activity of Arrow and its agents since that date. 
Mr E complains that Arrows actions, and those of its agents, were unnecessarily aggressive 
and caused him to feel harassed. I can see that the request for repayment has gone on for a 
long time and that various parties have been instructed by Arrow to try and recover the debt. 
Ive looked at each of the agents record of contact with Mr E and also considered what hes 
told us about the amount of contact hes received. 
I understand that, because of the difficult circumstances Mr E has told us about and his 
health problems, things have been very difficult. But, I have to take into account that Arrow 
acquired a debt and has a legitimate reason to contact Mr E and request repayment. So 
whilst I can see that Mr E doesnt want Arrow to contact him, Im unable to agree it has acted 
unfairly by asking for repayment. 
Ive looked at the way Arrows agents contacted Mr E over the years. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr E but I didnt find evidence of harassment or an unreasonable level of contact. There 
have been periods where Arrows agents have tried to call Mr E but the records dont show 
the level of contact was unreasonable. Mr E has forwarded a doctors letter dated 19 
December 2014 that hes advised was sent to Arrow. Ive checked the contact notes from 
the time. I can see that on 8 December 2014 Mr E spoke with agents of Arrow and agreed to 
make payments of £5 a month. 
On 2 February 2015 Mr E spoke with the agents again and said he would maintain the 
agreement to make payments of £5 a month. But there is no record that shows the letter 
Mr E has forwarded was received by Arrow or its agents. And Mr E doesnt appear to have 
told the agents acting for Arrow about the mental health issues he was experiencing at the 
time. Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, but I havent found that Arrow ignored his doctors letter as 
it doesnt appear to have received it. 
Mr E has also raised concerns about interest and charges applied to his account but Arrow 
hasnt added any to the balance since the debt was purchased. The account was defaulted 
on 30 July 2010 and Arrow took responsibility for reporting that when it acquired the debt. But the default was only reported for a six year period and dropped off Mr Es credit file in 
2016. 
Ive very sorry to disappoint Mr E as I can see he has experienced a difficult period since 
Arrow bought his debt. But, I havent found that Arrow or its agents actions have been 
unreasonable or overly aggressive. Im satisfied Arrow did acquire a debt in Mr Es name 
and that it has a legitimate reason to contact him to discuss options for repayment. 
As Ive said above, I cant say whether the debt is statute barred on not as that isnt the role 
of this service. If Mr E is experiencing financial difficulties or poor health that mean he is 
vulnerable or unable to repay the outstanding balance, he has the option of providing that 
information to Arrow so it can consider how to proceed. As I havent found that Arrow has 
acted unreasonably and I think its dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman