DRN-3742490
The complaint
The Estate of Mrs N complains that WPS ADVISORY Ltd delayed carrying out a transfer of 
Mrs Ns defined benefit pension.
What happened
Following two periods of employment with a previous employer, Mrs N had two defined 
benefit (DB) pensions, together with a small defined contribution (DC) pension. In 2020 
she received a letter advising her that the trustee of the pension scheme was offering 
members an enhanced pension transfer on its DB pension and would pay for members to 
have financial advice on a transfer. 
WPS wrote to Mrs N in October 2020 inviting her to a review of her pension and asking her 
to make an appointment to discuss this. The letter confirmed that the former employer was 
paying for the advice. Mrs N contacted WPS on 6 November but was told there had been a 
lot of requests for advice and there were no appointments available until January 2021.
On 15 November 2020 Mrs N told WPS she had terminal cancer. WPS agreed to prioritise 
her request and offered an appointment on 1 December. WPS says it requested quotes from 
the pension scheme the same day and then liaised with Mrs N about obtaining a medical 
report.
On 13 January 2021 WPS was advised by Mrs Ns pension scheme that assessments would 
be passed to an actuary for calculation, and that a spouses pension would be payable 
together with a serious ill-health lump sum (SIHLS) payment (which would need to be 
calculated). 
WPS decided the information it already had, together with information it knew about the 
scheme, was enough for it to estimate what the SIHLS was likely to be. It then had a further 
conversation with Mrs N on 28 January 2021.
During its discussions with Mrs N, WPS recorded that:
she had terminal cancer;
she had received a SIHLS from another pension with a different employer and had 
only recently become aware of how much the pensions from this employer were 
worth;
in view of her situation the preferred option would be to transfer the pensions to a 
personal pension, so she could either receive a larger SIHLS payment or 
alternatively ensure her husband, Mr N, would benefit from the cash funds on her 
death.
WPS drafted a report and this was checked by its peer review team.
WPS received the ill health forms from the new provider on 3 February and a medical report 
from Mrs Ns doctor on 4 February. WPS said it would send its report the following week. 
The paperwork was posted to Mrs N on 12 February but on 17 February WPS was told it 
hadnt been received so it was sent again by post and email. Very sadly, Mrs N died in the 
early hours of 18 February, shortly before the paperwork arrived. So the transfer wasnt 
completed.
Mr N complained that WPS had delayed the transfer and because of this the Estate had lost 
out. In response to the complaint WPS said it had done everything it could to get the transfer 
completed, but advice couldnt be given on the transfer until it had all the relevant  
information and there were delays that were outside its control. 
Mr N remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt 
think WPS was responsible for any delay. Mr N disagrees and, on behalf of the Estate, has 
requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises out of what was a very challenging time for Mr N. I appreciate how 
difficult this was and how much the complaint means for him. My role is to assess WPS 
actions against the relevant rules and guidance in place, and whether it met the expectations 
placed on it. When dealing with a transfer from a DB pension scheme, the relevant guidance 
says an adviser should start by assuming that a transfer will not be suitable. A firm should 
only consider a transfer to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate that its in the client's best 
interests. 
So the starting point is that theres a presumption against transferring and to justify the 
advice to transfer, WPS would need to show it was clearly in Mrs Ns best interest. WPS had 
to gather all the relevant information including for example, details of Mrs Ns financial 
circumstances, her state of health, her attitude to risk, and full details of her existing 
pensions and the proposed new pension.
There were reasons why a transfer would be suitable in this case but WPS still had to obtain 
all the relevant information, carry out calculations including a transfer value comparator, and 
set out in detail the justification for a transfer. And a SIHLS payment couldnt be made until it 
had the medical report. 
I understand Mrs N tried in December to arrange for her doctor to send a medical note to her 
previous pension scheme, so it could confirm she was eligible for a SIHLS payment and 
provide a quote. WPS needed medical evidence but in the meantime, took steps to keep 
things moving. In particular, the adviser obtained the method used by the previous scheme 
to do the calculation and worked through the figures himself. He was able to do a calculation 
indicating what the SIHLS payment was likely to be, which meant he could discuss the 
proposals with Mrs N and prepare a report. But he still needed further information before the 
transfer could happen. Im satisfied WPS dealt with all of this in a reasonable time, taking 
into account the need to proceed quickly. 
I appreciate there was an initial delay arranging the first appointment but as soon as WPS 
became aware of Mrs Ns diagnosis it offered her an earlier appointment. WPS didnt receive 
the medical note until 4 February (and received the SIHLS the same day). Until then it wasnt 
able to proceed. It needed the SIHLS to consider possible inheritance tax implications. 
Once it had everything, the paperwork was finalised and sent very soon after. Its very 
unfortunate the paperwork wasnt received and had to be sent again. Mr N has provided a photo which he says shows the letter wasnt posted on the date claimed by WPS. However, 
the document Mr N has provided doesnt show the date of postage. And WPS sent a further 
copy as soon as it was told the letter hadnt arrived. 
Mr N says if the letter had been received earlier, things would have been completed in time 
for the funds to be transferred. Im not persuaded WPS was responsible for a delay here but 
even if it was, the extra time involved was a matter of days. Its very unlikely everything could 
have been completed in that time. 
For all these reasons I dont think WPS caused any unreasonable delay or that it was 
responsible for the transfer not completing.
Finally, Mr N has referred to his wife having paid £750 for WPS advice and said it took this 
money but failed to carry out her wishes. However, the fee for dealing with this was paid by 
the pension scheme; the £750 mentioned was what WPS would have charged for ongoing 
advice, had that been needed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman