DRN-3687377
The complaint
Mr W has complained that St. Andrews Insurance Plc declined a claim he made for disability 
on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy in 2020.
What happened
St. Andrews declined the claim on the basis that Mr W wasnt working at the time that he 
became ill and therefore was not covered under the policy terms. 
Mr W told St Andrews that he had stopped working in 2006 to become a carer for his father. 
St. Andrews asked Mr W for proof of this and it subsequently refunded the policy premiums 
from January 2013 upon receiving evidence that he had not paid National Insurance (NI) 
contributions from that point. Mr W said that, in spite of not working, he had continued to pay 
NI between 2006  2013 in order to qualify for the full state pension. St. Andrews then said 
that it would review its refund offer if Mr W could provide other evidence, such as from 
HMRC, that he had not worked since 2006. In addition, as the policy provided cover for 
someone leaving work to become a carer, it said that it may be able to consider a backdated 
carer claim.
Our adjudicator thought that St. Andrews had correctly declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms. He also thought that the offer to refund premiums from 2013 was reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says he holds his mortgage lender, who sold him the policy, responsible. However, St. 
Andrews is the underwriter of the policy and are the ones who made the decision about 
declining the claim. As such, this decision will only be looking at the actions of St. Andrews.
The purpose of the insurance is to cover someones mortgage repayments if they are unable 
to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So it makes sense that someone has to 
be in work to be able to benefit from the policy. And the policy terms state that you are 
covered for disability benefits if you are in work at the start of the claim period. Mr W has 
said himself that he doesnt dispute the terms and conditions of the policy. Based on the 
available evidence Im satisfied that St. Andrews acted correctly in declining the disability 
claim on the basis that Mr W was not in work at the time.
Mr W says he told the lender in 2006 that he was giving up work and asked them to check if 
the PPI would still cover him for illness. He says he was told that it would still cover him for 
accident and sickness but not unemployment. But it was the lender that Mr W spoke to and 
not the underwriter. There is no evidence that the lender informed St. Andrews of a change 
in Mr Ws circumstances. Mr W would need to make a new complaint against the lender if he 
is unhappy with the advice he says he was given by them at the time.
St. Andrews has a call note (rather than the call recording itself) about a phone call received 
from Mr W in March 2006 in which there was no discussion about him ceasing to work. Mr W 
has explained that there wouldnt have been as he was still actually employed in March 
2006. Therefore, I havent seen any evidence that St. Andrews would have known that Mr W 
stopped working later in 2006. 
There is some slightly conflicting information about Mr Ws later employment status. Thats 
because St. Andrews has another call note (again rather than the call recording itself) from 
2013 of a conversation with Mr W in which he informed it that he was then self-employed.
Mr W says that St. Andrews were fully aware that the policy did not meet his needs on 7 
July 2020 but that it carried on taking the payments until June 2021 when the policy was 
cancelled upon his 65th birthday. However, St. Andrews would have been assessing Mr Ws 
claim in July 2020 and it would have been inappropriate to cancel the policy at that time as 
premiums would still need to be made during the course of any claim period. St. Andrews 
would also not have been able to foresee whether Mr W would be returning to work in the 
future. And in did subsequently advise Mr W, in its letter of 24 November 2020, that it 
recommended that he cancel the policy if he would not be returning to work.
On balance, Im satisfied that St. Andrews has acted reasonably in only returning the 
premiums from 2013 at the moment. Mr W says that the refund hes received doesnt include 
interest. However, I wouldnt expect it to. Thats because, as mentioned above, St. Andrews 
wouldnt have had any prior knowledge that Mr W wasnt working and so it hasnt done 
anything wrong. The refund of premiums is to acknowledge that St. Andrews wasnt on risk 
from 2013  because, as Mr W wasnt working, it would never have had to pay out on the 
policy. As such, its appropriate that it is just a simple refund of the premiums paid, without 
interest.
Im also satisfied that St. Andrews has further acted fairly and reasonably in saying it will 
review its refund offer if Mr W provides additional evidence of ceasing to work in 2006, such 
as evidence from HMRC that he hasnt paid any income tax. Mr W should take steps to 
provide this information now if he is able. Given the passage of time, I would expect St. 
Andrews to show some flexibility in the type of information it will accept as being appropriate 
evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman