DRN-4149496
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy UK Insurance Limited (UKI) decided to issue a cash settlement for the 
remaining repair work at his property, following damage caused by subsidence, claimed for 
under his home insurance policy. 
UKI appointed various agents to work on its behalf when progressing Mr Hs claim. UKI 
accepts responsibility for those agents. So, any reference to UKI also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Hs property suffered from damage caused by subsidence. So, he made a claim under 
his home insurance policy for this. 
UKI accepted Mr Hs claim and carried out repair works to the property. This complaint 
doesnt concern issues with the claim prior to June 2022. So, I wont detail the history of the 
claim here, except to say that Mr H raised a number of concerns about the repair work that 
had been carried out prior to June 2022.
Some of these concerns were about the quality of work that had been undertaken. And 
others were around work that Mr H considered damaged related to subsidence, that UKI 
hadnt dealt with. 
In June 2022 UKI accepted there was work still needed to repair the subsidence related 
damage to Mr Hs property. But it said it was making the decision to cash settle any 
remaining repairs needed. 
On 24 June 2022 UKI wrote to Mr H and said that its agent had attended to snagging items 
and concluded the majority of the repair work at the property. But it would be cash settling 
the remaining works. It provided a list of what it considered to be the remaining work 
needed. And said that the cost to complete the work was £9,612 + VAT. 
UKI said it had processed a payment of £9,612, which Mr H would receive shortly. And when 
Mr H completed the work to the property and produced invoices to showing VAT had been 
incurred, then it would pay Mr H the VAT for the works too.
UKI also referenced an outstanding issue Mr H had raised with work at the property. This 
was in relation to some capstones. UKI said it considered the capstones it had provided 
were an acceptable match for a new garden wall it had needed to build as part of the claim. 
UKI said the design of the capstones Mr H had at his property previously were no longer 
produced, and the capstones it had provided were a reasonable alternative. UKI also said 
the capstones would be slightly different to each other  as is the case with natural stone, 
and that they would weather over time.
Mr H didnt agree with the above. Mr H remained unhappy in respect of the capstones. And 
noted that he didnt want a cash settlement  but wanted the outstanding repairs to be 
completed by UKI.
UKI considered Mr Hs comments here but maintained its position on the matter. In its final 
response letter, dated 27 June 2022, UKI maintained its position that providing a cash 
settlement for the outstanding work was the correct thing to do. It said Mr H had exhibited 
unreasonable behaviour, and the decision to cash settle was in line with the terms of Mr Hs 
policy. UKI was also satisfied the capstones provided were acceptable too. 
UKI did however accept there was a day in June 2022 when Mr H had been told the 
capstones would be delivered, but they werent. Whilst UKI considered Mr H had needed to 
be at the property anyway to let other agents working on the house in, it did accept the 
inconvenience of the capstones not arriving. So, it offered £50 compensation for this.
Mr H remained unhappy with UKIs position. He disagreed that his behaviour had been 
unreasonable, but instead explained he was merely frustrated with the problems hed 
experienced with his claim, and the challenges he felt he was coming up against in trying to 
resolve the issues with UKI. 
Mr H said he still didnt want to receive a cash settlement and wanted UKI to finish all 
outstanding work at his home. And, Mr H said the cash settlement provided to him wasnt 
sufficient for all of the work outstanding to be actually completed. So, he felt the figure 
reached was incorrect anyway.
UKI accepted it had missed a couple of necessary repairs from its schedule of works and 
therefore offered an additional cash settlement of £1,030 for these repairs. 
Because Mr H remained dissatisfied with the matter, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They said that 
whilst they thought UKI was entitled to offer a cash settlement for the remainder of the claim, 
they didnt think UKI had shown the cash settlement was fair or covered all of the 
outstanding works on the claim. 
So, they considered that UKI should discuss all outstanding elements of the claim with Mr H 
and review their schedule of works accordingly. This included the capstones, which our 
investigator understood Mr H had said could be died to blend in, and then would be 
acceptable. 
Our investigator also recommended UKI increase its compensation to £250.
Mr H accepted our investigators outcome. But UKI didnt. It remained of the opinion that 
Mr H had shown unreasonable behaviour, and so its decision to cash settle had been 
correct. UKI also said the cash settlement offered in June 2022 was fair. It said the cash 
settlement was only for outstanding works that had been listed. And it had told Mr H that if 
there was anything else that needed doing it would consider this too, making additional 
payments where necessary.
But UKI said there were some areas Mr H was claiming for that werent related to 
subsidence damage, such as claims for work in the downstairs WC.
In addition, UKI said the cash settlement was based on how much the outstanding work 
related to subsidence damage would have cost it  which was in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
As UKI remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently intending on upholding this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties I have considered all information supplied to this service. 
However, when coming to my provisional decision on this complaint Ive only referenced that 
which I think is necessary to explain the reasoning for my intended decision. That isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to the parties  but reflects the informal nature of this service.
This complaint is about UKIs decision to offer Mr H a cash settlement for the outstanding 
aspects of the subsidence claim he made, as well as whether that cash settlement was fair 
and reasonable, at the point it was offered. 
Its important to note that the claim is still ongoing and has moved forward since June 2022. 
Further action and complaint points is the subject of a separate complaint at this service. So, 
when considering this particular complaint, Ive only looked to see whether the cash 
settlement offered to Mr H in June 2022 was fair and reasonable. As well as whether UKI 
had dealt with the issues related to the capstones fairly at that point. The remainder of the 
action on the claim will be dealt with under the separate complaint. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether UKI acted in line with these requirements, when it decided to 
provide a cash settlement for Mr Hs claim in June 2022. 
That has meant Ive needed to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for UKI to elect 
to provide Mr H with a cash settlement for the outstanding works. As well as the cash 
settlement figure offered was a reasonable amount at that point in time.
Decision to offer a cash settlement
UKI has said that Mr H exhibited unreasonable behaviour. It has provided some call 
recordings, which Ive listened to, as well as some emails where UKI discusses what it 
considers to be unreasonable behaviour. 
From reviewing the above, and the remainder of the information provided to this service, I do 
think that the relationship between UKI and Mr H had irreparably broken down by June 2022. 
Its important to note that Im aware UKI was willing to attend to snag any items it had 
already completed, which I think was fair at the time. And its offer of a cash settlement was 
for any other outstanding items needed doing.
Whilst generally, when an insurer has started any repair works, Id expect it to finish all of the 
work needed, in this instance Im satisfied the decision taken to offer a cash settlement for 
any outstanding works was reasonable  and a fair decision in an effort to progress the claim 
to its conclusion, given the relationship breakdown. 
So, Im currently satisfied UKI acted fairly in deciding to cash settlement the claim from this 
point forward. Given this, I dont intend on requiring it to act differently in that respect.
Was the cash settlement offer provided fair?
As I consider it was reasonable for UKI to provide a cash settlement, Ive needed to think 
about whether UKI has shown the cash settlement offered to Mr H in June 2022 was fair. 
And I dont think it has shown this.In UKIs email to Mr H on 24 June 2022, it said the cash settlement figure being offered was 
for the following:
Demolish left hand side garden wall and remove spoil
Construct new brick wall and footing to left hand side garden wall
Supply electrics to 2 No brick piers and connect existing lights
Supply and install fence panel behind garage to back garden
Labour to finish laying the patio and brick wall
Carry out law turf laying to front and rear gardens.
I understand that following communications with Mr H, UKI did increase its cash settlement 
by £1,030 to allow for some additional work - fitting of some railings, laying of the porch tiles 
and repair to the render, what were missed off the original cash settlement.
But UKI hasnt provided this service with a fully costed schedule of works, showing how is 
arrived at the above figures. As I havent seen the costed figures for the work, I cant be sure 
that the cash settlement figure arrived at was fair  or represented a sufficient settlement to 
allow Mr H to get the work listed above completed.
In addition to this, Ive reviewed emails between UKI, its agents and Mr H. And I do think its 
likely the cash settlement still missed out some elements of the claim that should have been 
accepted at that point. 
For example, in an email on 28 June 2022, Mr H noted some outstanding works such as 
repair of the ceiling and electrics in a storm porch and the coping on the stairs from the 
garden to conservatory not being fixed down. I cant see these were later included in the 
cash settlement, or that UKI responded to Mr H on these points, to explain why they werent 
included. 
Given the above, I do think UKIs cash settlement was unreasonable, at the time it was 
offered. And I can appreciate the distress and inconvenience this would have caused to 
Mr H, who was needing to raise his concerns about the cash settlement not being enough.
Im aware that in June 2022, when the cash settlement was offered there were some 
disputes still ongoing about larger elements of work, and whether those were to be included 
in the claim. For example, work to a WC, and a twisted doorframe. Although these elements 
were in dispute at the time of the cash settlement in June 2022, these matters have 
substantially moved on. Meaning that whether settlement for these items should be included 
in the claim too is now the subject matter of a separate complaint and will be dealt with 
under that separate complaint.
Capstones
The other element of this complaint to consider is whether UKI had acted fairly in respect of 
the capstones, at the point of its final response in June 2022.
UKI said it initially wanted to try acid wash the capstones, to see if this would provide a 
suitable match to the new wall that was being built. I dont think this was an unreasonable 
position to take. UKI were entitled to try and conduct repairs when dealing with the claim. 
And Im satisfied UKI was trying to arrive at a suitable repair in line with this. Had this 
worked, that it may have resolved part of the claim. 
The acid wash didnt work. So, Im aware UKI then looked for another way to source 
capstones that provided an appropriate match to the wall these were going on. Which I think 
was reasonable. UKI needed to ensure the capstones fitted to the brick wall were of a reasonable match to the remainder of the wall, if they had matched on the original wall that 
had been present. And that was what it was looking to do.
I can see that UKI found a supplier to take a mould of the original capstones and match the 
colour. The supplier undertook this work, and the capstones were then delivered to Mr H. 
UKI accepted there would still be some element of difference in the capstones and the bricks 
on the wall, given that these are made of natural materials, and that these would wear over 
time. But noted these to be a reasonable match, taking that into account. I think this was a 
fair position for UKI to take. I havent seen any firm evidence which shows the capstones 
were sufficiently different to the bricks on the wall, or that the capstones didnt represent a 
reasonable match at this time. I do however recognise that things have moved on in respect 
of the rear wall since this point in time  and that will be dealt with under the separate 
complaint.
I do also acknowledge Mr H was told these would arrive with him on 15 June 2022, and they 
didnt arrive when expected. UKI has offered £50 compensation for this element of the 
complaint  recognising the upset and inconvenience the delay to these being delivered 
caused. 
I think that is fair. I say that because whilst Mr H, or a representative for him, did need to be 
at Mr Hs property on 15 June 2022 anyway, for other claim related works, it would have 
been frustrating to be waiting for the capstones to turn up as promised, and this not happen. 
So, I dont intend of requiring UKI to pay anything more in this respect.
However, I do think it would be reasonable to increase its overall compensation in respect of 
this complaint. 
As above, Im not satisfied the cash settlement Mr H was offered in June 2022 was fair and 
reasonable. Whilst a dispute about this wasnt the only issues ongoing in relation to the 
claim, I think it would have added to Mr Hs frustration and would have been inconvenient for 
him. I agree with our investigator that an additional £200 compensation would be fair 
compensation in this respect. I think that recognises the trouble and inconvenience Mr H 
experienced, whilst still acknowledging there were additional, separate reasons the claim 
was still ongoing at this point.
Mr H responded and accepted the provisional decision. UKI didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr H £250 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman