DRN-4300342
The complaint
Mrs S complains about National Savings and Investments (NS&I) crediting the wrong bank 
account and causing her to lose interest.
What happened
Mrs S had £20,000 of Premium Bonds. Mrs S wanted to transfer this money to her bank 
account with Bank A, which would then give her the flexibility to open a new ISA. So, she 
entered Bank As details in the Your nominated bank or building society account section of 
NS&Is Cash in Premium Bonds form. 
However, Mrs S later discovered that, rather than being transferred to Bank A, her money 
was paid into an Instant Access ISA account she held with Bank B. 
Mrs S is unhappy with NS&I as Bank Bs withdrawal rules meant she couldnt move the 
money until the next financial year. Mrs S says she has lost out on interest as she wouldve 
earned more interest had the money been transferred to Bank A and then a new ISA 
account.
Mrs S complained to NS&I. NS&I initially said theyd made an error and offered a small 
amount of compensation, including interest, that Mrs S was dissatisfied with. However, they 
later revised their position and said they had correctly followed her instructions, paying the 
nominated account they had on file, and hadnt made an error. They did however honour the 
compensation they paid.
Mrs S complained to our service; however, our investigator didnt uphold her complaint.
As Mrs S remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
As my decision centres around NS&Is Cash in Premium Bonds form, I should first explain 
that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their forms, procedures or processes. This 
because we arent the regulator of the financial services industry.
Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a business hasnt acted 
fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to 
put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
From looking closely at the information on file, Im satisfied that Mrs S intended for her funds 
to go to Bank A rather than Bank B. This is because, in addition to her submissions, she 
entered her Bank A account details in section 6 of the NS&Is Cash in Premium Bonds 
form.
However, NS&I have evidenced that Mrs S was registered for on-line and phone services. 
Also, that she requested Bank B as her nominated account. So, as section 6 refers to a 
nominated bank in its title:
Your nominated bank or building society account 
and says:
If you are registered for our on-line and phone service, we will automatically pay the money 
to your nominated bank account on our records
although Mrs S entered her Bank A details, I cant see that NS&I made an error here. Im 
satisfied they followed the process explained in their Key features document. 
There is a box in section 6 for bank account details and the NS&I Key features document 
says we usually pay the money into your nominated account, so it appears to be possible to 
pay a different bank account to the one nominated. However, because section 6 says NS&I 
will automatically pay the nominated bank account, I think Mrs S would have needed to have 
made enquiries in advance or changed her nominated account and I cant see that she did 
either.
So, although I am sympathetic to Mrs Ss potential financial loss and understand her 
frustration here, having considered all of the above Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman