DRN-3831441
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the interest that has been applied to his catalogue shopping account. 
What happened
Mr S made a purchase totalling £1,099 in March 2021, using his Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited (Shop Direct) account. This purchase was made using 12-months Buy 
Now Pay Later (BNPL) terms. 
Mr S made further purchases in September 2021, which were made using six-month BNPL 
terms. The deadline for interest to not be applicable on both the 12-month and six-month 
BNPL agreements was 9 March 2022.
Mr S says he received text message notifications in the months before the BNPL deadline, 
advising his monthly statements were available. However, in February 2022 (the statement 
before the deadline) no text message was received. The deadline was therefore missed, and 
interest totalling £563.09 was applied. 
Mr S repaid the balance in full, under protest once he became aware the BNPL intertest had 
been applied. A complaint was raised and Shop Direct responded saying it didnt receive 
payment before the BNPL delayed payment period ended. Therefore, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the BNPL offer, the interest that it applied was correct. 
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and concluded that Shop Direct hasnt acted incorrectly in applying 
the interest it had. The investigator said Mr S did miss the BNPL payment date and the 
interest had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. The 
investigator added that Shop Direct had notified Mr S, via email, of when the deadline was 
for the interest to not apply
Mr S didnt agree and added that he was relying on the text message to let him know when 
the payment was due. Mr S says this was reasonable given text messages had been sent to 
him in the previous months.  
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that govern Mr S account with Shop Direct. Under 
section 21 these state: 
We may put your statement and any other notices that we wish to send to you or are 
required by law to send to you, such as notice of sums in arrears and notice of default sums, 
in the Transactions and Statements section of My Account on our website (or such other 
secure location as we nay notify you). We will send an email to let you know when we do 
this. You agree that you consent to receive statements and notices in this way.
Mr S has said that he didnt receive emails from Shop Direct advising his statements were 
ready and this is why he relied on the text messages. Shop Direct has provided evidence 
that the emails were sent and sent to the same email address Mr S provided our service. I 
appreciate the emails mayve gone into Mr Ss junk folder, but even if that was the case it 
wouldnt be something I could hold Shop Direct responsible for. Given this, Im satisfied the 
emails were sent and to the correct email address. 
The text messages Mr S has referred to were only reminders that the statements were now 
available online. Shop Direct has explained the text messages are not a formal method of 
communication it offers and are only sent as a courtesy reminder to back up the statement 
being available.  
I acknowledge that Mr S says he was relying on the text messages and thats how he 
managed his account. However as per the terms, Shop Directs obligation was to send Mr S 
an email explaining the statements were available online. For the reasons Ive given above, 
Im satisfied it did this. 
The statements clearly gave notice of when the BNPL deadline was. The deadline wouldve 
also been shown on the previous statements, prior to the one that Mr S says he missed in 
February 2022. Therefore, Mr S was made sufficiently aware of when the deadline was for 
interest to not be applied. When payment wasnt made in time, Shop Direct has applied 
interest correctly, in line with the terms of the agreement. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint Shop Direct Finance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman