DRN-3455491
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt refund a payment she made to a 
merchant. 
What happened
In May 2021, Miss C booked a modelling photoshoot for her brother with a company Ill call 
L. She said that they had searched for modelling studios online because this was a line of 
work her brother wanted to go into. She said L was the first company to get in touch with 
them. She said that on the day of the shoot L arranged for her brother to have his hair and 
makeup done before photos were taken of him. 
After the photos were taken, Miss C said that they were told to wait a few hours while L 
reviewed the photos to assess them. She says they were told her brother had been 
successful and they were asked to sign up to a modelling package. She says she was 
encouraged to sign up to the lowest package which was £1,000 and included: photos, 100 
business cards, a personalised website and a verified social media account. She says that 
L also said that they had modelling work already lined up for her brother with a famous 
watch brand and they would be in contact with her soon about the details. She says L told 
them they would be able to get at least one paid modelling job per month.
Miss C says she tried to get in contact with L the next day to ask for more detail about the 
work for the watch brand but the number she had been given didnt work. She says she then 
tried to find a phone number online and found a number of negative reviews about L 
indicating they were operating a scam. She contacted Barclays and asked them to cancel 
the payment she had made. Barclays said it couldnt cancel the payment but did agree to 
raise a chargeback dispute once the payment had debited her account. 
The chargeback was defended by L as it said that Miss C had signed a contract saying shed 
received all the goods and that her purchase was non-refundable. Barclays said it wouldnt 
pursue the chargeback further because it didnt think any further dispute would be 
successful. It said L had provided evidence to show it sent Miss C photos and that this was 
all that was agreed under the contract. Miss C complained about Barclays decision not to 
refund her, but Barclays didnt uphold that complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Barclays acted 
fairly in not pursuing the chargeback further. This was because she thought Miss C had 
provided plausible and consistent explanations of what she was promised by L and that the 
contract Miss C had signed (and which L had relied on in its defence) didnt set out exactly 
what it had agreed to provide. She said there was evidence that more than just photos were 
to be provided under the contract and L hadnt demonstrated it had provided those goods 
and services. Further, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Barclays had used the most 
appropriate chargeback reason code within the chargeback rules in order to give it the best 
chance of success through the scheme. 
Barclays didnt agree. In summary, it said the contract stated the £1,000 was for a media 
purchase and Miss C signed it to say she had received the goods. It didnt think there was 
any evidence to suggest there were ongoing services to be provided by L, such as modelling 
services or work. It said without evidence of this, the chargeback wouldnt have succeeded if 
they had pursued it further. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C contacted Barclays within a day of making the payment to L. She said that she 
thought shed been the victim of a scam and wanted assistance in getting her money back. 
As Miss C made the payment using her Barclays debit card, Ive thought about whether 
Barclays dealt with her request fairly and did all it reasonably could to assist her. 
Barclays attempted to recover the payment by initiating a chargeback through the relevant 
card scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers (i.e. Barclays) and merchants (i.e. L). In certain circumstances the scheme provides 
a way for Barclays to ask for a payment Miss C made to be refunded either in full or in part. 
Those circumstances include (but not limited to) where the goods or services arent supplied, 
as described, or are misrepresented by the merchant Miss C paid. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. L can defend any chargeback made by Barclays, 
which is what happened here. L provided a copy of the signed contract which said Miss C 
had received the goods. Where a chargeback is defended, Barclays can make a further 
presentment to the defence, and it did so in Miss Cs case. It provided Miss C with Ls initial 
defence and asked her for further comments. Miss C provided her response and Barclays 
pursued the chargeback further. However, L defended it once more. This time L provided 
copies of emails it sent to Miss C which contained a link to the photos it had taken.
The final stage of a chargeback is where Barclays can ask the card scheme to arbitrate on 
the outcome of the dispute if it continues to be defended by the merchant. Barclays chose 
not to take the chargeback to arbitration because it said that L had provided persuasive 
evidence that Miss C had received what she paid for. 
Barclays isnt obligated to pursue a chargeback to arbitration, or indeed raise a chargeback 
dispute in the first place. However, I would consider it good practice for Barclays to do so, 
where a chargeback right existed and there was a reasonable prospect of success. Further, 
where there are allegations of a scam, it would be good practice for Barclays to have 
brought this to the attention of the merchants bank and of the card scheme by way of a 
chargeback.
I think Barclays did act fairly by initially attempting the chargeback and pursuing it further 
following the initial defence put forward by L. However, I dont think it treated Miss C fairly by 
not pursuing the chargeback again through to arbitration by the card scheme. Ill explain 
why. 
Barclays pursued the chargeback under the reason code cancelled merchandise/services. 
Given that Miss C was saying that she believed shed been the victim of a scam, in other 
words what she had been promised by L wouldnt materialise, I dont think this was the most 
appropriate reason code to use in order to give the chargeback the best possible chance of 
success. I think it would have been more appropriate to have used codes for 
misrepresentation or goods/services not as described, as suggested by our investigator.Barclays says that L demonstrated it had provided everything it agreed to do under the 
contract. I dont agree. The contract simply stated that Miss C had paid for media 
purchase. It didnt stipulate what this included. L provided Barclays with a copy of an email it 
sent to Miss C with a link to the photos it had taken, so I think its reasonable to conclude 
that did form part of the contract and that it was likely sent to Miss C. However, that doesnt 
demonstrate that is all that was agreed. 
Miss C has been consistent in describing what she believes was included in the package for 
£1,000. Ive found what shes told us persuasive, not least of all because I find it unlikely she 
would have paid that amount just for photos alone. I note that Ls terms and conditions for 
the contract refer to it supplying Miss C with websites. I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude this was the website and social media platform Miss C has repeatedly referred to. 
I cant see that L has ever provided any evidence of it supplying Miss C with one website let 
alone the more than one its terms and conditions says it will. 
Having considered this discrepancy and the fact that what Miss C describes is consistent 
with the types of modelling scams which have been publicised online and in the media, as 
well as what this service has seen previously, Im persuaded that the contract included much 
more than just the photos. I think its more likely than not Miss C was promised those 
additional goods and services, including guaranteed modelling work. Ive not seen anything 
to demonstrate those were provided or were ever made available to Miss C or her brother. 
As part of her response to Ls defence to the chargeback, Miss C provided some online 
reviews for L which she says were in relation to Ls previous trading name. These show 
overwhelmingly negative reviews and references to a scam. While these dont of course 
demonstrate that Miss C was scammed, it does corroborate what Miss C had said. It also 
ought to have made Barclays question the discrepancy between what L said about the 
contract and what the terms and conditions said would be included. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays presented Miss Cs chargeback through the card scheme in 
the most favourable way as I dont think it used the most appropriate code. Further, I think 
Miss C had adequately demonstrated that the contract was for far more than just photos and 
that it was the misrepresentation of the other services that induced her into entering into the 
contract when she otherwise wouldnt have. Given all this, and the wider suggestions that 
Miss C had been the victim of a scam, I think had Barclays robustly pursued the chargeback 
through to arbitration, using the most appropriate codes, Im persuaded the chargeback 
would more likely than not have succeeded. 
Barclays actions have therefore unfairly prevented Miss C from potentially recovering the 
payment that she made and it should refund that payment to her to put things right. Ive 
thought about whether Miss C should only receive a partial refund given there does appear 
to be evidence she received some of the agreed goods (the photos). However, Im not 
persuaded that Miss C or her brother has derived any meaningful benefit from those photos. 
I say this because Im satisfied the purpose of her entering into the contract was for her 
brother to obtain modelling work, not to receive the images. I therefore dont consider it 
necessary to make any deduction for what they did receive. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund Miss C £1,000, adding 8% simple interest per year on that refund from the 
date of the transaction to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman