DRN-4386117
The complaint
Mr B complains that Consumer Credit Justice Limited (CCJL) pressured him into agreeing to 
pursue a personal injury claim after he was involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr B said hed made a claim against his insurer after he was involved in a road traffic 
accident, and that his insurance claim was settled in July 2020. But around September 2021 
he said he was called by CCJL. He said theyd his personal details and that he was told his 
insurance claim was still unresolved. He said CCJL told him that the third party had made a 
personal injury claim against him, and that there was money set aside to cover his own 
personal injury claim.
Mr B said he told CCJL that he hadnt been incapacitated by the accident, but said he was 
told that was for a medical examiner to decide. Mr B said he was persuaded by CCJL to act 
before he was faced with a personal injury claim against him. Mr B said he was then passed 
through to another department. But found this wasnt another department but a firm of 
solicitors.
Mr B said hes experienced extreme distress and inconvenience as the claim has had a 
substantial financial impact on him. The third-party insurer took legal action against him for 
making a personal injury claim when he hadnt been injured. He said the court action had 
cost him around £20,000, and that hed said throughout that he hadnt been injured but the 
medical examiner had discussed theoretical injuries. Mr B said he hadnt agreed the 
contents of the medical report, but the solicitors had pursued it. Mr B said he would never 
have been in this situation without the intervention of CCJL in pressuring him to make this 
claim. He complained to CCJL, but they didnt respond. Mr B referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked CCJL to provide details of their actions with Mr B but they havent 
responded. He said CCJL had acted as a lead generator, which meant they would seek out 
any potential claims and pass the details onto a third party. And it would be the third party 
that would consider the validity and potential success of Mr Bs personal injury claim. But he 
said CCJL hadnt acted in line with the relevant guidance which has caused Mr B distress 
and inconvenience. He said CCJL should pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for this.
CCJL didnt respond to our investigators findings. And Mr B didnt agree that the 
recommended redress was sufficient for the upset that hed been caused. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in September 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
CCJL are a claims management company (CMC) regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). They have permission to carry out claims management activities. As the 
Claims Management Ombudsman I can look at complaints against them to consider whether 
theyve acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr B.
The main crux of Mr Bs complaint is that this has led to court action being taken against him 
which has had a substantial financial impact on him. But as explained by our investigator I 
cant look at the quality of the legal advice given, or actions taken by Mr Bs solicitors. I can 
only look at whether there has been poor service given by CCJL.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration as he feels strongly that its the contact made by CCJL 
that has led to his financial situation, and the impact on his credibility for any future financial 
products. CCJL hasnt responded to our requests for information, so Ive based my decision 
on the testimony and evidence provided by Mr B.
CCJL had claims management permission for:
Seeking out, referrals and identification of claims or potential claims (personal injury claim; 
financial services or financial product claim; housing disrepair claim; claim for a specified 
benefit; criminal injury claim; employment related claim)
And this is what CCJL did in that they sought out and looked to identify a potential personal 
injury claim. CCJL acted as a lead generator which means theyd pass contact details 
(leads) of customers who may have a claim to make onto a third party whod would look to 
take forward any claim. An individual who is contacted by a lead generator, or whose details 
are obtained by a lead generator and passed on to another firm, is, therefore, a customer of 
both the lead generator and, where relevant, that other firm. In this case CCJL passed       
Mr Bs details to a firm of solicitors. As solicitors arent regulated by the FCA as explained I 
cant consider their actions, but I understand Mr B has since referred this part of his 
complaint to the relevant ombudsman to consider.
For CMCs such as CCJL, the Claims Management Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(CMCOB) provides relevant guidance. CMCOB 2.2 sets out some rules on lead generators 
providing information and as a regulated firm, the FCAs general principles will also apply to 
lead generators. Wed expect a lead generator to treat their customer fairly. Mr B said he 
was contacted by telephone by CCJL. CMCOB 2.2.8(2) says at the start of the call, CCJL 
must:
..in its financial promotions and in any communication with the customer, include a 
prominent statement to the effect that the firm receives payments from third parties to whom 
it passes customers, or the details of customers or of claims, or whose details it passes to 
customers, in respect of doing so.
As CCJL hasnt provided the call recording or a note about the call, Ive considered Mr Bs 
testimony. And his understanding from the call was that CCJL said they were acting either 
for his insurer or to get his insurance claim fully resolved. And that as they knew his personal 
details, hed no reason to doubt what they said. At no point in Mr Bs testimony has he said 
he was made aware that CCJL would be paid for passing his details onto another party.
CMCOB 2.1.1 says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer (the clients best interests rule).
CMCOB 2.1.4 saysA firm must not engage in high pressure selling in relation to regulated claims management 
activity.
CMCOB 2.1.7 says:
A firm must not make or pursue a claim on behalf of a customer, or advise a customer to  
take or pursue a claim, if the firm knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect that the 
claim:
(1) does not have a good arguable base; or
(2) is fraudulent; or
(3) is frivolous or vexatious.
Having considered Mr Bs testimony, I dont think CCJL adhered to the CMCOB guidance. 
Mr B said he made clear that he hadnt been incapacitated but was persuaded that a 
medical professional would decide this for him. And that by not making a claim he would be 
at risk of a personal injury claim being made against him by the other driver.
So I dont think CCJL were acting in the best interests of Mr B (CMCOB 2.1.1), as I think 
they pressured him (CMCOB 2.1.4) into pursuing something which, as Im persuaded by     
Mr Bs testimony that hed been clear he didnt have an injury would have been at least a 
claim that didnt have a good arguable base (CMCOB 2.1.7).
Its not our role to punish a business but I m persuaded that without the contact made by 
CCJL Mr B wouldnt be in the situation he now finds himself in. I know Mr B has suffered a 
financial loss but this isnt something I can ask CCJL to compensate him for as their role was 
to pass on his details and not to submit a personal injury claim on his behalf. While I accept 
that CCJL didnt act in Mr Bs best interests, Mr B also has some responsibility in the 
pursuance of a personal injury claim when he himself was aware that he hadnt been 
incapacitated. As outlined above I wont comment on the actions of the solicitors in this 
matter.
But CCJLs failure to adhere to CMCOB I think has caused Mr B considerable distress and 
inconvenience. Our investigator said they should compensate Mr B £100 for this. But I dont 
think this fully reflects the distress and inconvenience CCJLs actions in persuading Mr B into 
thinking he needed to make a personal injury claim have caused him. So, I currently intend 
to ask CCJL to pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience their actions have caused.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr B accepted the provisional decision. CCJL havent responded, so I dont have any further 
comments or representations to consider. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Consumer Credit Justice Limited to pay Mr B £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their actions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman