DRN-4102214
The complaint
Mr F complains about Vitality Health Limiteds decision not to pay his private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr F holds private medical insurance cover with Vitality. In May 2022, he was admitted to a 
private hospital for treatment, and made a claim for this under the policy. Vitality refused to 
cover the hospital admission as it thought this was an emergency admission, which is not 
covered under the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr F brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought the hospital admission 
had not been an emergency, as defined by the policy. He therefore recommended Vitality 
reimburse Mr F the costs hed paid for his treatment, plus interest. Our investigator also 
thought Mr F had been caused unnecessary worry and upset by Vitalitys decision to turn 
down the claim, and so recommended it pay £750 compensation for this. 
Vitality agreed to cover the cost of the hospital admission plus interest, though it said it did 
not think the final two days of the admission were eligible. Nonetheless, it said it would pay 
these as compensation (worth £2,552). 
Mr F thought Vitality should pay him compensation of £5,000. He disagreed with Vitality that 
the final two days of his hospital admission were not eligible. The matter has therefore been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality now accepts that the claim should be covered, so that is no longer in dispute. For 
completeness, I confirm I agree the claim is covered, and for the same reasons as set out by 
our investigator. I understand Vitality has paid the majority of the claim.
However, there is still a disagreement between the parties over the final two days of Mr Fs 
hospital admission. Vitality thought Mr F could have been discharged on 8 June, but he was 
not discharged until 10 June. I note that Vitality is willing to cover the hospital charges for the 
final two days as compensation, but I understand it is not willing to cover consultant costs 
from the two final days.
Mr F has provided information from the hospital which confirms that he was not able to be 
discharged until 10 June. Weve shared this with Vitality and explained that this evidence 
persuades me that the 9 and 10 June should be covered under the claim. Vitality didnt 
respond to us by the deadline we gave, and so I see no reason to conclude these two days 
werent eligible under the policy terms.
The remaining issue is how much additional compensation Vitality should pay for wrongly 
turning down Mr Fs claim. It may be helpful if I explain that our awards for compensation are 
not punitive, and are intended to reflect the impact a financial businesses actions have had 
on a consumer. 
Mr F is of the view that Vitality authorised the hospital admission during a call on 9 May, but 
Vitality disagrees. Ive listened to the call, and the staff member said that she would 
authorise a blood test, ECG, X-rays and two consultations. She explained Vitality would 
need a report from the treating consultant to confirm the reason for Mr Fs hospital 
admission, or Vitality wouldnt be able to authorise a procedure or overnight stays. 
However, the staff member later said in the call that shed authorised for the hospital where 
Mr F was going to be admitted, with his consultant. This would have been in connection with 
the tests and consultations already authorised, but the staff member didnt explain this. So, 
although Vitality didnt specifically say the hospital admission would be covered, I think it 
ought to have made it much clearer that it would not be making a decision on the hospital 
stay until it had received a report from the specialist. And if Mr F chose to be admitted to 
hospital before Vitality had provided authorisation, then there was a risk he may need to pay 
the costs himself. 
Mr F has provided a lengthy explanation to this Service of how the matter has impacted him, 
for which Im grateful. Ive taken his comments into account. Having done so, I agree with 
our investigator that compensation of £750 would be reasonable in the circumstances. This 
recognises that Mr F was caused considerable distress and worry by the matter when he 
was in hospital, and has spent time trying to sort out his claim since being discharged. I also 
understand that there was some confusion around the date of Vitalitys final response, 
though its also the case that this Service could have given Mr F assistance if he needed 
clarification on this. 
Mr F considers that Vitality should bear responsibility for problems with his health that he 
attributes to stress caused by Vitalitys claims decision, and from using a computer to bring 
his complaint to this Service. I havent seen any evidence to support that Vitalitys decision to 
turn down Mr Fs claim has directly impacted his health. We wouldnt generally award 
compensation for making a complaint to this Service, and Mr F could have arranged for a 
representative to bring the complaint on his behalf. 
Although Vitality was previously willing to pay the hospital charges for 9 and 10 June of 
£2,552 as additional compensation (that I have now found should be covered under the 
claim), this Service did not require it to pay this amount in compensation. 
I therefore require Vitality to pay Mr F compensation of £750. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay the 
claim (including the costs from 9 and 10 June) in line with the remaining policy terms, less 
any payment already made.  
Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoice/s 
were paid to the date of settlement (to be clear, this will be the date that Vitality has 
paid/pays the settlement).
Vitality Health Limited should also pay Mr F £750 compensation. *If Vitality considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman