DRN-3667015
The complaint
Mr C complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refuse to refund him two transactions he didnt 
authorise. 
What happened
In February 2022, just before midday, two transactions amounting to £900 were made from 
Mr Cs account to the same retailer. The transactions were both made using a well-known 
payment method on a mobile phone device. 
To keep matters simple, I will refer to this payment method as MP in the rest of the 
decision.
Mr C says he was called from an anonymous telephone number several time before the 
transactions were made by someone purporting to be from Monzo. He says he was told to 
delete his Monzo banking app from his mobile phone as there was fraudulent activity taking 
place on his account.
Mr C says he did this, after which he attempted to download his Monzo banking app again. 
He says that once he was able to do this in around 15 minutes, he noticed his account had 
been debited twice for payments he didnt authorise.
Mr C says he froze the card on the banking app and made Monzo aware immediately. He 
says he later drove some three hours to the retailer where these payments were made. Mr C 
was able to get a picture and CCTV footage of the fraudster carrying out the transactions. 
He says this is evidence enough that hes been the victim of fraud. Mr C also reported the 
matter to the Police. 
Monzo looked into Mr Cs claim and didnt uphold the resulting complaint. In its response, 
amongst other things, Monzo said it had reason to believe the transactions werent 
fraudulent. 
Unhappy with what Monzo said, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the matter, and in summary they found: 
- Monzo has shown the payments were correctly authenticated 
- Mr C consented to the payments because he said he didnt share any information 
with the person who called him, but just deleted his mobile banking app. But the 
evidence shows the MP was approved to be used through Mr Cs registered mobile 
device. As Mr C didnt share his details, and no one else had access to his mobile at 
the time, its more likely than not he approved the MP himself from his app
- Mr C was sent a text message by Monzo around 30 minutes before the first 
transaction took place. This should have prompted Mr C to act sooner if he had not 
set-up the MP
Monzo agreed with our Investigator, but Mr C does not. He says he has given this service 
lots of evidence to show he was the victim of fraud  and the CCTV footage is in of itself 
enough to demonstrate this. 
Our Investigator responded that they had watched the CCTV, and considered all the 
evidence, but they were still unable to explain how an unknown third party was able to 
approve the MP through his registered mobile device. 
In summary, Mr C then made the following points:  
- He deleted the app as requested as he thought it was genuinely Monzo calling him
- The fraudster is clearly of a different ethnicity and is visibly so different in how they 
look. To demonstrate this Mr C has sent in his passport and driving licence 
- The CCTV evidence shows the fraudster made the payments. When you use the 
phones face identification technology this doesnt require app authorisation to make 
purchases  and the CCTV footage shows it clearly wasnt him making the 
purchases 
- The two transactions are not in line with Mr Cs account behaviour 
- He was not in the vicinity of where the fraud happened. He was at work 
- When reporting this to the Police they commented this was blatant fraud 
Our Investigator said they agreed the person in the CCTV wasnt Mr C. But that theyre 
unable show the MP device was approved by Mr Cs mobile app on his known device given 
he said he didnt approve or click any link. 
It follows Mr Cs complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman  to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I note how strongly Mr C feels 
about this, and no doubt my decision will disappoint him  so, Ill explain why. 
This is a finely balanced complaint. Where matters are like this, and where there is
inconclusive or missing evidence, I can reach my decision on what I think is most likely to
have happened - the balance of probabilities.
In short, Monzo is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs
2017). Mr C says he never made, nor authorised, two payments to an off-licence  so he 
wants them refunded. 
Im satisfied from Monzos technical evidence Mr Cs genuine card details, which were 
approved on his mobile device for a new MP to be made functional, were used to make the 
disputed transactions. And they were done so in the correct form, and in line with Monzos 
processes. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Monzo 
to hold Mr C liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not Mr C consented to the payments being made. 
Broadly speaking, I need to consider three possibilities here: (i) Mr C did not consent to the 
payments (ii) Mr C carried out the payments himself; and (iii) Mr C authorised someone else 
to use his details on a MP. 
Ive watched the CCTV footage Mr C has given this service and Ive closely reviewed the 
identification documents hes sent in for himself. Having done that Im satisfied the two 
people are different. 
Mr C also says he was at work when the transactions were made. It also appears the date 
and time of the video footage is indicated by the proprietor of the shop by taking a handheld 
video of the date from the computers calendar. The time is shown by a clock in the 
off-licence from the video footage itself. Im happy to accept this is likely to be an accurate 
representation of the date and time the CCTV video was filmed. Though I cant be entirely 
sure given the video isnt time stamped itself in the conventional way. 
So, with that in mind, I think its most likely Mr C didnt carry out the transactions himself. 
That brings me onto whether Mr C most likely authorised someone else to carry out the 
transactions by using a MP set-up with his agreement. Mr C says he deleted the banking 
app as instructed by someone pretending to work for Monzo shortly before the transactions 
were carried out. Hes been clear and consistent he didnt approve a new device to be used 
under his account through a MP mechanism. 
Monzo say that for a new device to be used and set-up under Mr Cs account he would have 
had to authorise it through his app. Monzo have given me information which shows Mr C 
was in his app - on his registered device - at the time the other MP device was approved. 
Given Mr C has been consistent he didnt approve a new device to be enabled with MP 
under his account, I cant see how these transactions were made without that. So I find 
myself at a real quandary as to how the transactions were made unless Mr C approved the 
new device. 
Without a plausible explanation to the contrary, and based on what Mr Cs told us, I think its 
more likely he consented to the transactions by authorising someone else to carry them out. 
This means he most likely authorised them. 
Mr C feels strongly weve not put enough weight on the evidence he has provided to show it 
wasnt him that carried out the transaction in the off-licence. As Ive said, I agree thats the 
case here, but for the reasons above, I think hes most likely given someone else authority to 
make those transactions. I cant of course be sure, but based on the evidence Ive been 
presented with, Im persuaded, on balance, that is what most likely has happened. 
Mr Cs phone SMS records also show he was sent a text message around the time he was 
in his app - presumably before deleting it  which said his card details had been successfully 
used to set up a MP. Given Mr C was accessing his app around this time on his device, I 
think this is something he ought to have acted on if he wasnt authorising the payments. At 
the very least it ought to have made him aware sooner something wasnt quite right.   
Mr C has said the payments were so out of character that Monzo should have done more to 
protect him from financial detriment. Monzo say that as the MP requires additional 
authentication its systems wouldnt have flagged these transactions. I can understand this, but given I think Mr C most likely authorised these payments, this isnt something I need to 
look into further. 
In conclusion, after weighing everything up, Im persuaded Mr C most likely authorised the 
two transactions he disputes. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman