DRN-3896210
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold his section 226 retirement annuity contract in 1988. 
That policy was transferred from the original policy provider to ReAssure Limited in 2012 and 
ReAssure Limited are responsible for responding to this complaint. Mr G says the pension 
has failed to reach the projected values and that he was disadvantaged when ReAssure 
Limited took over the administration of his policy.  
What happened
In June 1988 Mr G took out a retirement annuity contract (RAC) with a company that I will 
refer to as Firm A. ReAssure are now responsible for the activity relating to this product. It 
was set up to receive contributions of £25 per month until maturity. The contributions were 
placed into a with-profits fund. The policy had the benefit of guaranteed annuity rates 
(GARs) at maturity. 
In 2012 ReAssure bought the book of business from Firm A, that included Mr Gs RAC. This 
was a transfer of insurance business under Part VII of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Part VII transfer). Transfers like this one undergo regulatory oversight and require 
approval from the High Court. 
Following the transfer, Mr Gs RAC ceased to be a with-profits investment policy. Instead it 
provided a guaranteed final benefit of £26,525 at its maturity date providing the premiums 
continued to be paid. All other features, like the guaranteed annuity rates (GARs) remained 
unchanged.
Mr G complained to ReAssure in 2021 about: the sale of his policy; the way it had been 
administered since being transferred to ReAssure; and that the maturity date on the policy 
was wrong and should be the date he reached age 60. His complaint was brought by a 
representative, but I will simply refer to Mr G in this decision. He was concerned that his 
policy had not met the maturity projections he expected when it was taken out.
ReAssure investigated Mr Gs complaint in two parts. One department looking at the 
complaint about the sale and another looking at the service Mr G received when he 
requested information from ReAssure in 2020. 
In response to the complaint about the sale of the RAC and administration, ReAssure 
explained that it hadnt provided any financial advice regarding the sale of Mr Gs RAC, 
describing it as having been sold on an execution only basis. It explained that it no longer 
had copies of the original projections by Firm A in 1988. But explained that projections were 
only estimates of what the pension might return. ReAssure went on to explain that from 
2012, when it took over Mr Gs RAC, it was converted from a with-profits investment to 
instead provide a guaranteed final amount of £26,525. Which it explained were considered 
to be more in Mr Gs favour than the scheme in its previous form. ReAssure agreed that 
Mr Gs policy maturity date should be his 60th birthday, not the later anniversary date that 
ReAssures record showed. ReAssure confirmed that it would waive any exit penalty that 
might otherwise have applied for taking benefits at his 60th birthday. And confirmed that the 
maturity value would remain unchanged.
In response to Mr Gs complaint about the service hed received, ReAssure recognised that 
it had taken too long to answer Mr Gs request for information relating to the transfer of his 
pension in 2012. It no longer held that information but accepted it should have responded 
sooner to explain. It apologised and offered Mr G £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
that mistake caused him.
Mr G disagreed and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He explained why he didnt think that Mr G had 
been treated unfairly at the point that Mr G took out his RAC or when that RAC transferred 
from Firm A to ReAssure. Whilst the complaint was waiting for us to give our view on it, 
ReAssure increased its offer of compensation to £300 for the service failing it had 
acknowledged. Our investigator agreed that ReAssures latest offer of compensation was a 
fair way for it to put things right for the failing that had been identified.
Mr G didnt agree and asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr G is now in a position that he can take the benefits of his ReAssure 
RAC. And is concerned that this product may not have been suitable for him and that he 
may have been unfairly treated in the way the policy was moved during the Part VII transfer. 
So I know hell be disappointed that, for similar reasons as our investigator, Im not 
upholding these parts of his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G took out the policy in question in 1988. After such a passage of time it is 
understandable that documentation may not be available. Mr G for example, hasnt provided 
any documentation that hes retained from the time. And I have to consider that, after more 
than 30 years, any recollections of conversations had may not be totally reliable evidence.
ReAssure have provided the original application form along with a declaration signed by 
Mr G explaining that he declined to provide details for Firm As sales associates to be able to 
assess the suitability of the product. Which would seem to imply that no formal advice was 
given to Mr G prior to the sale of the RAC.
As our investigator explained though, its more likely than not that the RAC was sold was 
suitable for Mr G. He was aged 25 at the time. He was self-employed so unable to take 
advantage of any employer pension scheme. A RAC was a private pension available to 
anyone who was self-employed or not a member of an occupational pension scheme. He 
maintained payment of the premiums and hasnt suggested that they were unaffordable for 
him. So I cant conclude that the RAC was an unsuitable way for Mr G to save towards his 
retirement at that time.
Having considered Mr Gs complaint referral, his concern now seems to stem from what he 
considers to be a disappointing return on his pension. He refers to having received 
projections from Firm A of what his policy could be worth at maturity prior to 2012. 
ReAssure have been able to provide some of these. The earliest being the annual projection 
in 1994. It gave an illustration based on annual investment returns of 6% and 12%. The 
lower projected a fund value of £23,700 and the higher a fund value of £77,400. The 
correspondence made it clear that these were just illustrations and that they werent 
guaranteed.The illustrative values that Mr G received from Firm A changed over the time his policy was 
part of a with-profits fund. This is because, over time, the industry projected rates of return 
have changed as market conditions have changed. In the 1995 illustration, for example, 
industry standard projection rates were 6% for a lower rate and 12% for an upper rate. And 
because his RAC fund value was linked to the investment performance of the fund it was 
part of, its value fluctuated as actual investment returns were realised. 
By June 2012, in the last RAC illustration that Mr G was sent by Firm A, the projected fund 
value was shown as being £26,400. It was based on annual returns of 5%. Which by 2012 
was the lower rate industry standard projection rate. Over time, the industry has revised 
down expectation of how long term investments will perform. By 2014, for example, theyd 
dropped to 2% for a lower rate projection, 5% for a medium rate projection and 8% for a 
higher rate projection. Had Mr G still been receiving illustrative fund values based on these 
projections he would, most likely, have seen the illustrative values on his RAC drop.
Overall, I think that the information Mr G was receiving about his RAC should have made it 
clear that his fund was dependant on investment performance. His final fund value, prior to 
2012, wasnt guaranteed. And he could get more, or less, than the illustrative figures at the 
policy maturity date. This was simply a feature of the product he was provided and is not 
evidence that it was mis-sold to him. Or that he was treated unfairly.
The Part VII transfer in 2012 is another issue of complaint for Mr G. I understand that he 
feels that he had little say in the matter. Which I think was probably the case. The transfer 
would have been instigated by a business decision. Mr G has shared a copy of a document 
he received about his with-profits policy in 2006. It was Firm As guide for policyholders 
about how Firm A managed its with-profits business. On page 7 it explained how it managed 
the risk of the fund. It identified that it no longer offered with-profits policies to new 
customers, which it considered might increase the risks faced by the smaller number of 
remaining policy holders like Mr G. It indicated potential actions to mitigate the risk, which 
included transferring the with-profits business to another company that transacts that type of 
business. Which is what it subsequently went on to do.
The Part VII process was undertaken with regulatory oversight and agreed by the High 
Court. It ended up in changing the nature of the policies for customers  including Mr G. But 
theres no evidence that the process didnt comply with the legal requirement. 
ReAssure explain that one of the changes agreed by the court was that the new RAC 
wouldnt be a with-profits fund. That would be replaced by a guaranteed final value. Which, it 
says, its actuaries calculated. And ended up with a figure very similar to the last illustration 
that Mr G had, based on 5% returns. So I dont think it would have looked untoward to Mr G 
at the time. And he didnt complain about it when he was given this information by ReAssure 
in 2012. ReAssure complied with what the courts agreed was a fair way to treat this transfer. 
So, overall, I dont think ReAssure did anything wrong when transferring the RAC. Mr G may 
have had no specific say in the matter. But Ive seen evidence that he was informed about it. 
Including the change that it made to the nature of his RAC. So he had the option, like any 
customer, of staying with the new contract, or transferring to a new pension provider. Over 
the remaining 20 plus years he continued to pay his premiums and leave his pension where 
it was.
For the above reasons I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about the sale of the RAC; or the Part 
VII transfer.Mr G made a further complaint about the poor service he received from ReAssure when he 
asked it for information about the correspondence that hed been sent about the Part VII 
transfer. ReAssure didnt give a full response to this request for months, and when it did, 
informed Mr G that it didnt have the information hed been sent by Firm A. ReAssure have 
apologised and offered compensation  that now stands at £300  for the inconvenience that 
caused. I think this is fair. Mr G was caused trouble in having to chase for information that 
hed requested. But I cant see any further impact. For example, the mistake has caused no 
financial loss, or delay in his being able to take his benefits at the maturity date.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr G £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman