DRN-3686777
The complaint
Mr H complains that Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (Allianz) has unfairly declined 
a claim made under his housing warranty insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H purchased a new build property in March 2017. In 2020 he noticed damage to the 
windows where the paint was peeling and wood was rotting, apparently due to wet weather 
but also what Mr H believed to be poor workmanship and the use of inadequate materials. In 
2021 he made a claim for the damage, under his policy with Allianz.
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property and investigate. The claim was 
subsequently declined, with Allianz stating that following the site visit and investigations, the 
cause of the damage appeared to be natural wear and tear and/or inadequate maintenance. 
Mr H disagreed and made a complaint. Although he accepted there hadnt been any 
maintenance of the windows, he strongly believed the developer had used defective 
materials and the installation had been poor. He provided a quotation from a painter and 
decorator which supported his view that there must have been a defect with the structural 
work as the painter and decorator commented that poor quality products and lack of sealing 
were the main reason for the peeling paint and other issues.
Allianz maintained its position in response to the complaint, after appointing an expert to 
inspect the windows. Following receipt of the experts findings, Allianz set out its final 
response to Mr H, explaining why the policy did not respond in the circumstances.
Mr H remained unhappy with Allianzs responses, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld based 
on the available evidence. Because Mr H didnt agree with our investigators assessment, 
the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered the cover provided by Mr Hs policy. The policy provides cover for any 
Damage that has occurred as a result of a Defect in the Structural Works. This means not 
all damage or defects will be covered. The damage must be caused by a structural defect 
and Ive considered whether it was reasonable, based on the evidence that was available to 
Allianz, for it to conclude that the policy provided no cover in the circumstances.
The key pieces of evidence in this case include the original loss adjusters findings, the 
quotation provided by Mr H and the report by the expert appointed by Allianz after Mr H 
raised a complaint. I consider these key pieces of evidence because they each comment on 
the likely cause of the damage, which is the determining factor in whether or not the damage 
would be covered by the policy.
The original loss adjuster confirmed that while the paint was peeling off some windows, the 
windows themselves didnt appear to be damaged and had maintained their waterproofing 
integrity. The loss adjuster also commented that the developer had recommended that the 
windows be treated and/or repainted every 2-3 years. As Mr H bought the property in 2017 
and didnt notice the damage until 2020, I consider the damage to be consistent with the sort 
of issues that might be expected with normal wear and tear and a lack of maintenance. I 
note that Allianz also commented in its final response letter that the damage seems to have 
appeared some five years after the windows were likely to have been installed, as the date 
of installation is likely to have been around late 2015 or early 2016.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments that the developer didnt advise him of the need for 
maintenance every 2-3 years, and that the windows shouldnt have required such regular 
maintenance. However, Im persuaded by the care and maintenance booklet provided by the 
developer which confirms that windows should be inspected at least twice annually and that 
redecoration should take place when there are signs of wear and tear.
Ive also considered the quotation provided by Mr H which says that adhesion failure 
caused by poor-quality products are the main reasons for peeling paint. But Im not as 
persuaded by this as I am by other evidence, because it doesnt provide reasoning to 
support this conclusion, nor does it say what the poor quality products are. It does mention a 
lack of sealing between the windowsills but again it doesnt explain how this has led to or 
caused the paint to peel or the wood to rot. 
Im more persuaded by the report by the expert who was appointed by Allianz after Mr H 
raised a complaint. The expert comments that paint had flaked entirelyexposing the 
hardwood frame. This is supported by photographs of the damage. I cant fairly say a lack of 
sealant would have contributed to the paint flaking away in the way I can see in the 
photographs, so Ive considered the reasoning given by the expert. He says: we are 
confident that the cause of the delaminating paint is a combination of exposure to the 
prevailing weather and water entering through the construction joints in the window frames 
and that the windows to the rear of the property appear to be in good condition. He also 
goes on to say that the system used by the joiners is suitable for the windowsWe do not 
consider the choice of a three-coat microporous system to be unusual or flawed.
So, taking everything into account, I havent seen sufficiently persuasive evidence of poor 
workmanship or inadequate materials that would constitute a defect in the structural works, 
which would indicate that the claim shouldve been covered by Mr Hs policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but this means I dont consider Allianz to have declined the 
claim unfairly and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman