DRN-1374090
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to stop or question payments to 
gambling companies.
What happened
Mr B says he works abroad and discovered Mrs B had spent about £400,000 on gambling 
transactions. He says HSBC failed to tell him about the spending or had questioned the 
transactions. Mr B says HSBC failed in its duty of care to him and would like half of the 
spending refunded.
HSBC says it's not made a mistake and says there has been no suggestion of fraud . It says 
Mr and Mrs B are entitled to spend their money as they wish and says regular account 
statements were sent to them. It also says Mr B could have used online banking or 
telephone banking to mange the account and neither party raised any concern about the 
type of spending. HSBC says both Mr and Mrs B are jointly and severally liable for the 
account and that either party can access it.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The 
investigator thought we could only look at what had taken place for the six year period before 
the complaint was brought. And thought that there was no question of fraud here or that 
HSBC was under any duty to tell the parties what it should be spending money on. The 
investigator thought the payments were to legitimate companies and that Mr and Mrs B 
were  responsible for the account.
Mr and Mrs B accept that we can only look into the complaint for the six year period before 
the complaint was brought but do not accept the investigator's view that HSBC has dealt 
fairly with this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I'm satisfied that Mr and Mrs B have a joint account, that both parties are jointly and 
severally liable for. That means the money is not owned half each for example, and means 
that either party is entitled to use the account. There is no suggestion here that the 
transactions in question were fraudulent. And so I don't think HSBC made a mistake by not 
questioning why so much money was spent on gambling. I'm satisfied that it's up to Mr and 
Mrs B how they spend their money and how they manage their account.
I appreciate that Mr B says he was unaware of the spending as he works abroad. He has not 
told us if he returned to the United Kingdom in that period and if he did why he couldn't check his account or monitor it on his return. I'm satisfied regular account statements were 
sent to his home and that he could have monitored the account abroad in any event by 
online or telephone banking. I can see that Mr B appears to have used his account card 
whilst abroad on occasions and may have been able to carry out some account checks 
whilst abroad in any event.
Overall I'm satisfied here that HSBC hasn't acted unfairly or made a mistake. I don't think 
HSBC is obliged to monitor or interfere in a customers spending decisions and its up to the 
account holders to mange and take responsibility for the account. I can't see that HSBC was 
ever told there was a problem with the type spending. And had it been, then the position may 
have been different and could have taken steps for example to prevent this type of spending. 
In those circumstances and for the reasons I have explained, I can't fairly order HSBC to 
refund any of the spending.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman