DRN-4261918
The complaint
Mr J complains that when he made an overpayment to his mortgage with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, he was charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) which he wasnt expecting. Mr J 
wanted Barclays to pay this back.
What happened
Mr J told us that he made an overpayment on his mortgage on 26 October 2022. He said 
this was just under a year since his last overpayment. He told us hed understood that he 
could make overpayments up to a set amount every year without any cost, and he thought 
that year ran from 1 October to 30 September, the same as his statements. But when he 
made this payment, Barclays said hed gone over the amount he could pay in the year 
without paying a charge too, and he was charged an ERC.
Mr J said he tried to contact Barclays straight away, but it was so busy because of changes
to interest rates that it took him two days to speak to someone. When he did, he said he was
told that his overpayment year ran from 1 November to 31 October. Mr J asked why he
wasnt told this when he took out his new mortgage deal. He said there was nothing in his
offer document telling him when the year was, it just referred to payments of 5% per annum.
Mr J said Barclays told him this information isnt given directly to customers. It said he should 
have called Barclays to ask when his overpayment year ended. Mr J didnt think that was 
fair. He said if hed known about the dates, he could easily have waited a few days until 
1 November, when his overpayment wouldnt have incurred an ERC.
Mr J also said that as a good customer of Barclays, loyal to the bank over many years, he
would expect to be given the benefit of the doubt. Mr J wanted Barclays to pay back the 
ERC it had charged, of £139.48.
Mr J sent us the offer document he received, to confirm the new fixed interest rate mortgage
product he took out in 2019. That details an ERC which runs from 1 August 2019 to 31
October 2019. And it also contains the following 
Overpayments
A capital reduction of 5% per annum can be made without incurring an early
repayment charge. This will apply throughout the early repayment charge period.
Please refer to the early repayment section for details.
The early repayment section does not give details of what Barclays considers to be the
applicable year for overpayments to this mortgage, or how that would be worked out.
Barclays has confirmed that Mr Js overpayment year runs from 1 November to 31 October 
each year. It said hed overpaid in late November in 2021, then on 26 October 2022, so 
those payments both fell into the same year. Each of those payments individually was less 
than the annual allowance, but when they were added together, they were above this 
amount, so an ERC was charged.
Barclays has shown us internal documentation which makes its policy on this clear. The
annual period for overpayments is worked out from the end date of the product, so its the
twelve months before this date. But Barclays hasnt shown us anywhere where Mr J could
have seen this policy, or any way he could have been aware of it other than to contact
Barclays and ask.
Barclays said that if Mr J didnt know what his overpayment period was, he should have
contacted it to confirm the dates. And Barclays said this was what hed done in the past  it
said hed been told three times previously what his overpayment allowance period was for
his previous mortgage deal. So it didnt agree that Mr J could have thought this was from 1
October to 30 September, in line with his statements.
Barclays sent us contact notes which show that Mr Js overpayment year was discussed in
July 2018, December 2016 and August 2014, when the overpayment year on his previous
product ran from 1 July to 30 June.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr J had just assumed
when his overpayment year was, Barclays had never confirmed that. It had told him about
his previous overpayment period. So our investigator said Mr J could have called Barclays to
check what the period was on his new mortgage deal. Our investigator said Barclays had
correctly and fairly applied its own procedure. Mr J had exceeded the permitted payment
within the overpayment year, so it was fair for Barclays to charge an ERC. That wasnt a
mistake, and our investigator didnt think Barclays had to pay that back.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed sent us the documents Barclays had shared with him, and 
the overpayment year wasnt set out anywhere there. Barclays still hadnt put this in writing 
to him. He wasnt sure how it could be fair for Barclays to have told us its policy on this, but 
not told him. He said it couldnt be right that he always had to contact the bank if there was 
any doubt about things, otherwise no complaint would ever be upheld.
Our investigator set out that Mr Js new mortgage product ends on 31 October 2029, which
is the contract he read and agreed to. As his product ends at the end of October, the
overpayment period for each year would end in October.
Mr J didnt agree. He wrote to stress that there was no term covering the overpayment year
in his mortgage offer. He said he thought that annually in that document meant the same as
annually in his annual statement  so from October to September. Mr J said he thought the
investigation should be based on documents which had actually been sent to him by
Barclays, not things the bank had said later. He thought the year wed decided on was only
based on the experience and personal opinion of the investigator. Mr J said that as a
customer he should have clarity about the exact dates of the overpayment period, which
should be set out in the mortgage deal he had signed. He said that was the legal contract
both parties are supposed to follow.
Our investigator said he thought it was clear from the mortgage offer that Mr Js product term 
ended in October, and therefore any overpayment year cycle should end in October.
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision. I 
then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: Id like to start by saying that I have seen the internal policy that Barclays applies to set 
an overpayment year. Im satisfied that this policy was correctly applied in this case.
But I think that the arguments Mr J makes do have some merit. There is nothing in the 
documentation he signed which sets out the year Barclays would use for working out if 
an ERC should be paid. And his payments were almost a year apart.
Barclays has also accepted that Mr J couldnt have known, from the documents it sent 
him, what the overpayment year would be. It hasnt been able to show us that its policy 
on this is publicly available at all. It says Mr J should have asked, and used previous 
conversations that it had with him about overpayments to say that it would have 
expected him to contact it.
I note that the most recent of these conversations was several years ago. And I also 
note what Mr J has said, about the difficulties he had getting in touch with Barclays, 
because recent turmoil in the mortgage markets has made Barclays exceptionally busy.
Mr J, not unreasonably, says if hed known his overpayment year ran from 1 November 
to 31 October each year, he would have delayed this payment for a few days, so no 
ERC was due. And I can see that when he contacted Barclays, he asked it either to 
repay the ERC, or to return his overpayment  presumably so he could then make this 
payment again later. I can see from its internal notes that Barclays said it couldnt return 
the overpayment, because the overpayment had been applied to his mortgage.
I think its reasonable to assume, from what Barclays internal notes say about this, that 
if Barclays phone lines hadnt been so busy, and Mr J had been able to get through to 
the bank straight away, then it would have refunded this overpayment so Mr J could 
make it again, a few days later. And in that way, the payment of an ERC would have 
been avoided.
I have considered all the circumstances of this complaint carefully, not limited to the
documentation Mr J has signed and Barclays own policy on overpayments, but also 
taking account of the unfortunate short delay to his complaint, due to market turmoil at 
the time. 
I think that in this case, rather than ask Barclays to refund Mr Js ERC now, it would be a 
fair outcome to ask Barclays to treat Mr Js payment as having been made on 1 
November 2022, so no ERC was payable. So Ill ask Barclays to rework Mr Js 
mortgage now, to remove the overpayment he made on 26 October 2022, and the ERC 
he was charged on that date, and to reapply the full overpayment of £3,000 to his 
mortgage on 1 November 2022. Thats what I currently propose to do.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only Barclays replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said there was a problem with my proposed resolution. It said that, after his 
complaint came to our service, Mr J had made another overpayment in the 2022 to 2023 
overpayment year. So, unfortunately, if it reworked Mr Js mortgage in the way I had 
suggested, then he would end up paying an ERC anyway, but this time, for the period 
between 1 November 2022 to 31 October 2023, the current overpayment year.I understand that the further part redemption Barclays has now told us about, was made 
earlier this year by Mr J. That happened after our investigator had suggested the complaint 
wouldnt be upheld, and before the case reached me. So I appreciate that Mr J would not 
necessarily have been expecting my suggested resolution when he made that payment.
Barclays suggested, as an alternative, that it could make a payment of £139.48 onto Mr Js 
mortgage account now. This isnt a payment to him directly, its a reduction in his mortgage 
debt. That would, in effect, refund the ERC Mr J was charged by Barclays in the 1 November 
2021 to 31 October 2022 repayment year.
I thought this did provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, and I wrote to Mr J 
to say I proposed to amend my reward in this way. Mr J has contacted us, and hasnt 
indicated he has any objection to this. So, instead of the resolution I previously proposed, I 
will ask Barclays to make this payment onto Mr Js mortgage account now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must refund £139.48 onto Mr Js mortgage 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman