DRN-2089734
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that Nationwide Building Society refused to compensate 
them for fraud on their accounts
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M were the victims of fraud. A total of £69, 298 was taken from their accounts 
by a third party in online transfers and purchases and card transactions.  
Nationwide refunded all the transactions.
However, Mrs M and Mr M said they were greatly inconvenienced by the fraud and attempts 
to rectify it. They didnt think Nationwide had provided good customer care. They believe a 
staff member committed the fraud and were disappointed that Nationwide didnt co-operate 
fully with the police.
They asked for financial compensation. They said they were forced to return to the UK 
unexpectedly, with their sick daughter and grandson, at considerable expense.  When they 
were back in the UK, Nationwide asked them to go into their nearest branch with documents 
to confirm their identities and report the fraud. Over the following weeks, they had to make 
several visits to the nearest branch to set up access to online banking and to order new 
cards. 
Nationwide apologised to them but advised that it had to place blocks on the account when 
the fraud was detected, and this was done in line with the terms and conditions for the 
accounts. And it needed to ask them to attend the branch with their ID to protect them from 
further fraud and to safeguard their money, which is its priority. 
However, it agreed that the numerous phone calls and branch visits were an inconvenience 
and offered them compensation of £100.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt think the offer was a fair one, so they brought their complaint to this 
service. 
An investigator looked into their complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said there was no 
evidence that a staff member had committed the fraud. He also concluded that it was 
necessary for them to attend their nearest branch with their identity documents but agreed 
that Nationwide couldve resolved the outstanding problems sooner. He agreed that the offer 
of £100 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt accept the investigators view and so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Mrs M and Mr M were the victims of this nasty crime. It must have been a 
constant worry knowing that a stranger had access to their money and upsetting. 
Fortunately, Nationwide detected the fraud early on and placed a block on their accounts. 
Substantial sums did leave their accounts, mainly because online transfers and payments 
happen within seconds, but Nationwide refunded all the unauthorised transactions within two 
months. 
I understand Mrs M and Mr M suspect the fraud was an inside job, but now that Nationwide 
has refunded their money there is very little more that I can do as an ombudsman. I realise 
the investigator spent considerable time looking into this allegation but Im afraid its not my 
role to determine who did carry out the fraud. This is a matter for the police working with 
Nationwide.
But I can look Nationwides compensation offer and decide whether it was a fair and 
reasonable one in the circumstances. I think it was. 
Nationwide acted quickly when it detected the fraud by placing a block on the account. And it 
contacted the receiving banks to try to recover the money which had been transferred. 
Unfortunately, for Mrs M and Mr M the block on the account meant they couldnt use it while 
they were abroad. They had to return to the UK and attend their nearest branch with identity 
documents before the block could be removed and new cards ordered. I appreciate this was 
disruptive for them and their daughter and Im very sorry about that. However, I think this 
was a reasonable request from Nationwide. This service would expect a business to ask a 
customer to prove their identity following fraudulent activity on their account. Nationwides 
internal notes suggest this couldve been done over the phone, but Mrs M and Mr M didnt 
want to provide secure information verbally because they didnt feel safe doing so. And I 
understand why, after all that had happened. However, it did mean they had to visit to the 
local branch if they wanted to use their accounts.
Nationwide acknowledged that they shouldnt have needed as many visits and so it offered 
£100 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable. And as Mrs M and Mr M havent 
provided evidence of any other costs associated with the visits, I wont be asking Nationwide 
to pay more.
When Mr M last contacted this service, he confirmed that all the transactions had been 
refunded but he was waiting for Nationwide to reimburse him for the interest he lost on his 
savings account  which he said was an ISA account  which it had agreed to do. I assume 
this has been resolved as weve not heard anything more.
It might seem unfair to Mrs M and Mr M that theyve been put to great inconvenience even 
though theyve done nothing wrong. However, I dont consider Nationwide had done 
anything wrong either. It reacted swiftly to the fraud, took steps to protect their accounts and 
refunded all the transactions. There was nothing more that I couldve asked it to do.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mrs M and Mr M were waiting for, but I hope the reasons for 
my decision are clear. I also hope their daughter is making a good recovery.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman