DRN-1338564
 
The complaint
Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mrs L in 2001. The policy 
provided her with cover if she couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs Ls needs?
Did Lloyds give Mrs L the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
L is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs L say the PPI wasnt discussed when she took out her mortgage, and she didn't know it 
had been added to her account. I've noted everything Mrs L has said. 
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mrs L and Lloyds 
when the mortgage and PPI were arranged. I'm also mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Lloyds hasn't been able to provide much information from the time the mortgage and PPI 
were sold. That's not unreasonable or surprising, given the amount of time that's passed. It's 
also similar to some other cases I've seen.
Lloyds has provided a copy of Mrs L's PPI application form. Mrs L says she didn't complete 
the form, and she considers the bank completed it without her knowledge. She's also said 
she didn't meet with a mortgage adviser, and that her applications took place over the 
phone.
I accept that the PPI application form may have been completed by a Lloyds adviser, for Mrs 
L to sign. But without anything else to support what Mrs L has told me, I don't think I can 
safely say she didn't provide the direct debit mandate instructions that were included in the 
form, or sign the document. 
Overall, from what I've seen, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that 
Lloyds didn't make Mrs L aware of the PPI, or that she had a choice about buying it. 
The bank has accepted that it advised Mrs L to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
There is nothing to suggest that Mrs L wasn't eligible for the policy.
Mrs L says she was entitled to generous benefits from her employer if she was off 
work sick, and that she was in a secure job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs L's occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy in place would mean she could use her work related benefits to pay 
for other expenses. So I think Mrs L would have had some use for the policy despite 
her existing arrangements.
Mrs L wasn't affected by any of the conditions limiting the policy's main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policy's exclusions and 
limitations.
The cost of the PPI was set out in the PPI application form. So I think Mrs L would've 
known how much she would be paying for the policy and found it acceptable. The 
policy was reasonably priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or 
that the benefit wasnt enough to cover Mrs L's total monthly mortgage repayments.
 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as I've already said, Mrs L wasn't affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs L would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided - overall, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman