DRN-4372383
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited (trading as
Wills & Trusts Chartered Financial Planners) didnt manage his investments in accordance
with the strategy that had been agreed; the Advanced Investment Strategy (AIS). Mr B says
the growth on his investments has been low. And he didnt receive the service that hed been
charged for.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2023. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I didnt think it should be upheld 
were set out in that decision. Ive reproduced it below and it forms part of this final decision. 
Provisional decision
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the
complaint to both parties on 31 March 2023. The background and circumstances to the
complaint were set out in that assessment, so I wont repeat them all again here. However in
summary, in June 2015 Mr B attended a Wills & Trusts seminar on financial and estate
planning. He was impressed by Wills & Trusts, and arranged a follow up meeting where his
objectives were discussed. One of his main objectives was to develop an investment
strategy for his various investment holdings.
Mr B was sent a Wealth Management Plan (WMP) in October 2015. This contained an
overview of his financial position and objectives. Wills & Trusts Independent Financial
Planning Limited (I will refer to as Wills and Trusts) recommended that Mr B utilise its AIS for
his Individual Savings Account (ISA), General Investment Account (GIA) and Self Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP). The AIS had low, medium and high-risk categories, and clients
were invested into each of the risk categories in different proportions to make sure they were
invested at the correct overall level of risk.
Wills & Trusts made an initial recommendation that he invest a total of £250,000 that at the
time he was holding as cash. It would be invested 50% at low risk, 30% at medium risk and
20% at high risk. Mr B also transferred other pensions and ISAs across to the platform
provider. He signed a fee agreement which set out the charges and the level of service he
could expect.
The Wealth Management Plan said that investments should be reviewed regularly to ensure
they met with the Wills & Trusts criteria and the clients objectives. It said, amongst other
things:
Therefore the asset allocation model will be moved and amended as economic and political
pressures come to bear on your portfolio as well as changes to the risk portfolio as
required
Of course we will also look to make changes if there are changes in the economy that may
affect you, or if there are changes in your personal circumstances.
The asset allocation model which we use changes over time. These changes tend to be
slow and are considered long and hard before they are made. Asset allocation requirements
tend to change as economic and political circumstances change. Some of these can be
predicted and some cannot. As these changes take place the asset allocation model must
change to take these circumstances into account.
Alternatively, we may be expecting possible falls in the market, due to economic or
political reasons. In which case, we may recommend a reduction in risk into the low risk area
to help protect from these falls.
In 2018 Wills & Trusts established a separate Discretionary Fund Management Company.
This was called Wills & Trusts Discretionary Fund Management Ltd (I will refer to it as
WTDFM Ltd). Wills and Trusts recommended that WTDFM Ltd take over the management of
Mr Bs investments. Mr B signed to accept the recommendation on 2 August 2018.
Mr B subsequently complained to Wills and Trusts in November 2021. Wills and Trusts only
upheld part of Mr Bs complaint. It said the level of service that it had provided could have
been more proactive. And said it could have offered Mr B one to one reviews. It therefore
offered to refund the quarterly fees that Mr B had paid for the period of 2018 to 2020 - which
came to a total of £1,044.
Mr B didnt accept the firms offer, and referred the matter to us.
Our investigator noted that when Mr B initially setup the investment with Wills and Trusts any
changes to the funds invested into had to be agreed with Mr B. However, once the
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) had been engaged it no longer needed his agreement to
make changes. The investigator ultimately thought that Wills and Trusts had acted within the
investment remit it had been given, and with Mr Bs best interest in mind.
With respect to the charges, the investigator said there was no regulatory limit on the
amount that either a provider or an adviser could charge. He said he thought Wills and
Trusts had set out the charges very clearly to Mr B, and he thought Mr B had all of the
necessary information about charges before he decided to invest. He said the fee schedule
clearly split out the charges for the different services the firm offered.
The investigator said Mr B had opted to be a Review Client, which meant that he didnt get
a regular annual review but could request ad hoc meetings as and when he needed them.
He said the onus was on Mr B to contact Wills and Trusts if he wanted to set one up. The
investigator said hed reviewed the amount and types of interactions that Mr B had with Wills
and Trusts, and he thought the service it had provided matched what had been agreed to as
set out in the fee agreement.
However, he noted Wills and Trusts had extended their annual reviews to all their clients.
And although Mr B hadnt signed up for this service, Wills and Trusts thought it should have
offered it to Mr B. So Wills and Trusts had offered to refund two years worth of the quarterly
service fees paid between 2018 and 2020 (£1,044), as a gesture of goodwill. The
investigator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer.
The investigator said that in order to uphold the complaint he would need to find that Wills
and Trusts had done something wrong. But the investigator said he was satisfied it had
acted within the remit that had been agreed.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He provided further evidence and
arguments which I considered in making my provisional findings below.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to the investigators assessment Mr B said his complaint wasnt about
performance in itself, or that the fees were high  he acknowledged that hed agreed to
them. But said it was that Wills and Trusts didnt follow their AIS. He said the correct Issue
to determine was whether Wills and Trusts had followed the AIS. He said he was paying
fees for Wills and Trusts to follow the AIS, so if it hadnt, then those fees should be refunded.
As the investigator explained, in 2018 Wills & Trusts established a separate Discretionary
Fund Management Company. My understanding is this was a separate legal entity and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its own right. I accept that Mr B may have
been effectively dealing with the same people, and there was a fine line between the two
firms and eachs responsibilities. However it was WTDFM Ltds responsibility to manage Mr
Bs investments in accordance with the AIS after September 2018.
I can only consider the actions of Wills & Trusts (as in Wills & Trusts Independent Financial
Planning Limited), in this decision. But having said that, Wills & Trusts were still acting as Mr
Bs advisers after 1 September 2018. So I can still consider that period  albeit in the context
of Wills & Trusts obligations to Mr B from that date.
Wills and Trusts have provided copies of communications that were sent to clients asking for
approval to change the asset allocations. And copies of the history of changes to the asset
allocations as they were amended over time. The information provided is a Template
History. And for Wills & Trusts IFP Ltd. Ill ask the investigator to send Mr B copies following
this provisional decision.
Its not entirely clear to me whether these Templates reflect the exact make up of Mr Bs
investments and the amendments made over time, or act as a guide showing the model fund
make up which the actual fund would then be expected to largely mirror. We asked Wills and
Trusts for copies of Mr Bs annual statements, but it said it didnt retain copies and didnt
have access as Mr B had left Wills and Trusts. If Mr B considers the Template information
that has been provided is significantly different to how his investments were split, he can let
me know in response to this provisional decision.
The correspondence from prior to 1 September 2018 shows that the asset content was
considered and changed over time. The Template History is also consistent with regular
changes being made to the asset content. The AIS was described in the Wealth
Management Plan as set out above, and I note the particular focus placed on appropriate
asset allocation.
Like the investigator, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Wills and Trusts didnt manage
Mr Bs investments in accordance with the AIS up to 1 September 2018.
As Ive said, I can consider Wills & Trusts obligations in the context that it was still acting as
Mr Bs financial adviser from 1 September 2018. And from what Mr B has said, I understand
he is particularly concerned about the period whilst the investments had a greater amount
allocated to cash during the period that was affected by Covid. The Template Histories show
up to 10/11% in cash for each particular risk category at any one point.
The investments were split into three risk categories  Low, Medium and High risk (albeit
appear to be referred to by different names after the DFM became involved, but I understand
the underlying risks remained the same). And the proportion of Mr Bs investments in eachchanged over time and for each different product he held. However he had a significant
proportion invested in the low-risk category throughout, and for each product  ranging from
50% to 30%. So having significant amounts in cash for a period wouldnt be inconsistent with
these allocations. The Wealth Management Plan also said:
4. Tilting
When we set up your investments, a great deal of time is taken constructing the risk and
asset allocation models. However, sometimes we need to make temporary changes to these
different allocations to take account of what is happening in the real world.
The temporary changes tend be proactive changes that need to be put in place to take
advantage of or protect you from what we expect may happen in the investment world.
Changes which are made on a temporary basis to amplify gains or protect from losses are
known as tilting. By tilting we are looking to slightly move the asset allocation or risk
allocation temporarily, before coming back to the centrally agreed allocation models.
So irrespective of whether the Template Histories reflected the actual asset split, the DFM
had discretion to move away from the centrally agreed models for a temporary period. I think
its worth noting that during the Covid period there was a lot of uncertainty about how events
would unfold. It was unique, and the severity of the impact on the economy, how long for and
ultimately on asset prices were all unknown. Different professionals could have different
reasonable opinions, and I think the investment decisions made have to be considered in
that context.
There doesnt appear to have been an updated agreement between Mr B and Wills and
Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited at the time the DFM took over management
of the investments. But in continuing to act as his financial advisers, Im satisfied Wills and
Trusts was obliged to monitor and regularly review Mr Bs investments to ensure they met
with Mr Bs objectives, and ought to have identified if they werent being managed in
accordance with the strategy agreed  the AIS.
But having carefully considered the matter, given the evidence Ive set out above, Ive not
seen anything to suggest that the investments werent being managed in accordance with
the AIS. So I think it follows that Wills and Trusts didnt fail to alert Mr B of such a failure.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Wills and Trusts didnt manage the investments in
accordance with the AIS prior to 1 September 2018, or failed to identify it wasnt being
managed in accordance with the AIS post 1 September 2018.
As the investigator explained, Mr B was a Review Client, which meant that he didnt
automatically get a regular annual review, but he could request meetings as and when he
needed them. However Wills and Trusts said that it had subsequently extended offers of
annual reviews to all clients. My understanding is that Mr B had a review meeting in
November 2021. Wills and Trusts said it thought it could have been more proactive in
offering Mr B a formal one to one meeting. And it offered to refund the Quarterly Fee of £87
for the period 2018 to 2020. This totalled £1,044. Whilst I recognise that doesnt resolve or 
compensate Mr B for his concerns about the fees hes paid for Wills and Trusts not, in his 
view, managing the investments in line with the AIS, I think its a fair offer for it not been 
more proactive in offering annual reviews earlier.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limiteds offerto pay Mr B £1,044 is fair in the particular circumstances of the case. I therefore intend to
order that Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr B £1,044.
I asked Mr B and Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited to let me have any 
further evidence and arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final 
decision. 
Mr B said, in summary, that his fundamental complaint was that his investments werent 
reviewed/invested by Wills and Trusts in accordance with the AIS, irrespective of who
was actually taking the final investment decisions (WTDFM Ltd).
He said from 1 September 2018 the investigation didnt appear to establish whether the 
investments were managed in accordance with the AIS, just that there was no evidence that 
they werent. He said what was known in relation to the cash position illustrated that the AIS 
wasnt being followed. He said irrespective of Covid considerations, holding 10% in cash 
completely contravened the AIS, which clearly said:
that your AIS is successful because it works on the understanding that successful investing 
is 90% asset allocation and 10% investment choice, and this is illustrated by a pie chart 
showing that just 1.8% of a successful investment strategy is down to market timing.
Mr B said the letter about holding a high cash position was headed Taking advantage of a 
bad situation, and made a glib reference to having a cunning plan. He said these words 
werent indicative of a measured investment strategy, and he didnt invest with Wills and 
Trusts in the expectation that it would allow his funds to be managed by a Company who 
devised a cunning plan when faced with exceptional circumstances. He said he thought that 
they would invest in strict accordance with their AIS.
Mr B said the DFM advised that their strategy during COVID was to bounce back by more 
than the markets when the good news comes.. by holding a great deal of cash. He said this 
was clearly stating that Wills and Trusts were trying to time the market. So he said how could 
this square with the AIS advising that that just 1.8% of a successful investment strategy is 
down to market timing?
Mr B acknowledged that Covid was disruptive. But he said the market had experienced a 
number of shocks over the years, and the AIS was meant to have been formulated to 
address them - not to be changed once the market was turbulent. He said investment 
decisions should have been made in accordance with the AIS, not reacting to the uncertainty 
of Covid. Mr B said he didnt accept that refunding the quarterly fees adequately reflected 
Wills and Trusts deviating from the AIS.
Wills and Trusts said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision as set out 
above.
I appreciate that the main issue for Mr B is that his investments werent invested in 
accordance with the AIS, and that from his point of view thats irrespective of which Wills and 
Trusts entity was actually taking the investment decisions. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, there are separate legal entities here, and WTDFM Ltd was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its own right. A final decision is legally binding on both 
parties if accepted by the complainant in the time limits allowed. The complaint I am 
considering here is against Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited, and so I 
can only consider that firms actions and responsibilities in this particular final decision. 
So as I said, Wills & Trusts were still acting as Mr Bs advisers after 1 September 2018. So I 
can still consider Wills & Trusts obligations to Mr B from that date. The Template History is 
consistent with regular changes being made to the asset content. And as I set out above, 
AIS as described in the Wealth Management Plan put particular focus on appropriate asset 
allocation. And also provided for Tilting and temporary changes to the asset allocations to 
take account of what was happening in the real world. The DFM had discretion to move 
away from the centrally agreed models for a temporary period. Cash is an asset class, and I 
dont think there was a disproportionate amount in cash given the risk categories and that a 
significant percentage was in low risk. I also dont think having that proportion in cash was 
inconsistent with the AIS, or that the move to having more cash for a certain period was 
inconsistent either.
Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about market timing and in particular what was 
said about it in terms of that just 1.8% of a successful investment strategy is down to market 
timing. However that doesnt exclude some element of timing in all circumstances. And as 
Ive said above, it was provided for in in the Wealth Management Plan. I appreciate what Mr 
B has said about there being a number of shocks to the market over time. But I think the 
uncertainty surrounding Covid was quite unique. Decisions have to be made at the time and 
results of decisions are only seen with the benefit of hindsight. As Ive said, Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that the AIS wasnt followed or that Wills and Trusts failed in its 
obligations as they were over time.
As an aside, I do tend to agree with Mr B about the language used in the e-mails - I dont 
think they come across as particularly professional. But that doesnt necessarily mean that 
the underlying decisions themselves were unreasonable/inconsistent with the AIS. 
The refund of fees isnt to compensate Mr B for Wills and Trusts deviating from the AIS. It 
was an offer to refund fees by Wills and Trusts given it thought it should have been more 
proactive in offering Mr B annual reviews earlier. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limiteds offer
to pay Mr B £1,044 is fair in the particular circumstances of the case. I therefore order that 
Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr B £1,044.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman