DRN-2798252
The complaint
Mr H complains about the charge Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited asked him
to pay when his hire agreement with it came to an end.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr H entered into a hire agreement with MBFS for a new car. One of the 
conditions of the agreement concerned how the car should be serviced during the life of the 
hire agreement and how this needed to be documented.
When Mr H returned the car, at the end of his contract he was surprised to find that MBFS 
wanted to charge him £900 because of what it called an incomplete service history. It later 
explained its position further saying the reason for charging him £900, was because he had 
not met the servicing requirements set out in the agreement. 
Mr Hs position is that although one of the services was late (by five months) MBFS should 
not be permitted to charge him £900 for this. He points out that the servicing was ultimately 
done, albeit later than it should have been, by a reputable third party. He also points out that 
if he had had the car serviced by a Mercedes Benz dealership it would have cost half the 
price of the £900 it is now seeking to recover from him. Further, Mr H suggests he has had 
to do all the running and MBFS has not offered him the level of customer service that he is 
entitled to expect.
MBFS stance is that Mr H breached his agreement and it is entitled under the terms of that 
agreement to recover this charge to remedy the breach.
Dissatisfied Mr H came to our service.
I reviewed Mr Hs complaint. I issued a provisional decision in which I did not recommend 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. My reasons for coming to this conclusion were as follows:
Both Mr H and MBFS agree that Mr H did not service the car in line with the requirements 
of the agreement. Both parties entered freely into the agreement and agreed to be bound 
by its terms. As a starting point, therefore I think it is fair and reasonable to say that the 
parties should abide by the terms their own agreement. And Mr H did not, through no fault 
of MBFS. I also think that it is likely in the circumstances that the breach could cause 
MBFS to experience a loss of the kind it has told us about.
I dont agree that that potential loss should fairly be borne by MBFS, since it did not cause 
the breach. It is not really relevant that Mr H could have had the car serviced at a 
Mercedes Benz dealership for less. MBFS isnt suggesting the £900 relates to servicing the 
car. Rather, it saying that because Mr H did not stick to the terms of the agreement, it most 
likely, is going to make a loss when trying to sell the car. MBFS is in a good position to 
judge what impact this breach is likely to have on the resale value of the car. Further, I 
have no reason to doubt it when it says that because the servicing was done late that 
means the service history is incomplete.
I recognise this conclusion is likely going to disappoint Mr H. It seems clear that he thought 
he had kept to the agreement by getting the car serviced by a reputable business, I accept 
that is his perspective. But the fact remains, he breached the agreement, and this is the 
consequence of that breach. Therefore, I found I had no proper basis for saying that MBFS 
cannot seek to recover the £900 it says Mr H owes it.
I invited both Mr H and MBFS to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do 
so. They both sent in responses. MBFS responded to say it accepted my provisional 
decision, whereas Mr H let us know, he did not. In short, Mr H wanted to challenge my 
provisional decision on the basis that in his opinion, there were several points he had made 
that I had not taken into account and factored into my decision. In particular, he had a 
service plan which he says he was not told about until after he complained to MBFS about 
the end of contract charge of £900. Mr H thought MBFS should have reminded him about 
the service plan long before this. In his opinion he had given it the chance to remind him 
about the plan and it had a duty of care to remind him about it. He questioned whether really 
he ought to be reclaiming all the payments he had made towards this plan. Moreover, he 
recognised that MBFSs position is that the servicing of the car was done too late and about 
the consequences that flow from that. But he explained that at the time hed been having 
money troubles but nonetheless he got the car serviced. In any event the car had only done 
8,000 miles at the relevant point and he thought:
 Any car owner would know that you don't service a vehicle unless its [sic] done 10-15k 
miles, unless it's something like a Ferrari. 
Mr H finished by saying:
This whole situation has dragged out for a long time now and it is starting to cause me 
serious anxiety and it's affecting my mental health. I do hope that the ombudsman will 
rethink this decision and take into account ALL the factors at play here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr H and MBFS for their responses to my provisional decision. Ive reviewed the 
complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
It has been particularly helpful that Mr H took the time to set out his views on the redress 
which I proposed in my provisional decision, so that I have been able to gain a fuller 
understanding of his perspective and concerns about that redress.
Mr Hs sense of frustration about the service plan jumps off the page. He suggests that this 
plan, which it appears he had all along, would have paid for the servicing to be done on time, 
if only he knew he had it. I did not deal with this point in my provisional decision as we had 
already dealt with this point, at the earlier stage of this complaint. I had thought, Mr H was no 
longer raising this complaint point. We had explained we had no power to look at the service 
plan in this complaint. In this complaint I can only look at issues arising from the hire 
agreement between Mr H and MBFS. The service plan is not part of the hire agreement. I 
hope this explains to Mr H why I have taken this approach. And I will mention the service 
plan no further.
I recognise that Mr H seems to think that the servicing provisions in the agreement are over 
the top. But as I mentioned before, in my provisional decision, the servicing provisions, are in 
the contract. He agreed to contract on this basis and to stick to these terms. Its not disputed 
that he did not meet the servicing conditions in his contract. All MBFS is doing now is asking 
him to take responsibility for not sticking to those terms. And in the circumstances I find that 
fair and reasonable. 
That said, I can understand the point Mr H is making about he did his best in difficult 
financial circumstances. I have no reason to doubt that he was struggling to afford to service the car yet nonetheless did get the car serviced, albeit months late. The difficulty is because 
the servicing was done late this is likely going to cause MBFS to experience a loss. And 
MBFS wants him to shoulder that loss rather than itself. Under the terms of the contract it is 
entitled to do that.
Mr H is clearly a loyal customer who did what he could to meet his obligations. It is open to 
MBFS to make a goodwill gesture and write off this charge. But for all the reasons Ive gone 
through already, I have no proper basis for requiring MBFS to do this.
I regret to hear about Mr Hs anxiety and the impact this complaint is having on his mental 
health. I have no doubt this has been a very difficult time for Mr H. But I have to reach a 
decision based on the evidence, and not allow my natural feelings of sympathy towards Mr H 
to sway my judgment.
However, it sounds as if Mr H is going to struggle to pay this charge, which might then also 
impact on his anxiety and mental health. If Mr H is now in financial difficulties and as a result 
will struggle to pay MBFS especially all in one go, then he might want to contact MBFS and 
let it know. I remind MBFS of its obligations to act fairly, with due consideration and 
forbearance towards consumers who are in financial difficulties.  
I have not been persuaded by the information Mr H provided in response to my provisional 
decision. It follows that I have reached the same conclusions as I reached in that provisional 
decision, for all the reasons that I set out in that provisional decision and above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman