DRN-2932502
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly cancelled their building 
warranty policy.  
What happened
In around May 2013, Mrs S and Mr S took out a 10-year self-build warranty policy with 
Amtrust. This was to cover a property they were building themselves.
Up to August 2018, Amtrust were in regular contact with Mrs S and Mr S about the build. 
And in August 2018, they sent an email to Mrs S and Mr S which appeared to suggest that 
the 10-year warranty period would begin after the local authority had provided a building 
certificate and the property had been re-inspected.
In December 2018, Amtrust contacted Mrs S and Mr S to say they were cancelling the 
policy. They said this was because the build had not been completed within three years in 
line with the terms and conditions set out in the policy documents.
Mrs S and Mr S made a complaint to Amtrust about this. They said there had been no 
indication that Amtrust were considering cancelling the warranty after the three-year limit 
was passed (in 2016). And they thought Amtrust cancelling their policy was primarily 
motivated by their decision  in September 2018 - to stop providing self-build warranty 
policies.
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs S and Mr S brought it to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought Amtrust had acted unfairly.
He said Amtrust had given no indication that they would cancel the policy until December 
2018 (more than two and a half years after the three-year limit had been exceeded). He felt 
they should either honour the policy or pay for Mrs S and Mr S to get the same level of cover 
elsewhere and reimburse the premiums theyd paid to Amtrust (around £2,800). And he 
thought Amtrust should pay £500 in compensation for Mrs S and Mr Ss distress and 
inconvenience.
Amtrust disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but I disagreed about 
what Amtrust should do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision. This allowed 
both Amtrust and Mrs S and Mr S an opportunity to comment on my thinking and/or provide 
further evidence or information before I make my final decision, which is this Services final 
word on the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont believe theres any real dispute about the facts in this case. Mrs S and Mr S 
signed a contract with Amtrust for the provision of the warranty policy in May 2013.
In the Conditions section of that policy, it said:
3. Cancellation
The underwriter reserves the right to cancel the Policy without returning any 
premiums in the event of:
(i) The Building works period exceeding three years from the start 
date..
The build wasnt completed before May 2016. According to Mrs S and Mr S, the 
works were effectively completed in mid-2017, although the certificate of completion 
wasnt issued until August 2018.
So, Amtrust were within their rights to cancel the warranty, according to the terms of 
the policy. Mrs S and Mr S agreed to those terms when they bought the policy. And 
Amtrust were entitled to retain the premiums Mrs S and Mr S had paid  again, 
according to the terms set out before Mrs S and Mr S bought the policy.
I cant see that those terms were inherently unfair or unreasonable. Amtrust have 
pointed out why there is a greater risk with builds which go beyond three years. And 
theyve told us that if Mrs S and Mr S had told them at the outset that the build would 
take longer than three years, they wouldnt have sold them the warranty.
Its also clear that Amtrust will incur certain costs during that build period, so it 
wouldnt be fair to ask them to return the premiums if a build werent completed in 
time.
As the underwriter, Amtrust are entitled to determine what risks they will tolerate in 
providing a policy. And theyve been clear about that from the outset  the terms of 
the policy being offered to the market werent obscure, hidden or unclear. Mrs S and 
Mr S knew  or should have known  what they were buying.
All of that said, Amtrust didnt cancel the policy when the three year build period was 
up (in May 2016). In fact, they proceeded to communicate with Mrs S and Mr S as if 
the 10-year period of the warranty would start as and when the build finished.
This was clearly so right up until August 2018. Their email of that month to Mrs S and 
Mr S indicated that they accepted a recent delay in the local authority providing the 
building certificate and would re-inspect the property before starting the warranty 
period.
Initially, Amtrust told us that they had now taken the correct procedure to withdraw 
our offer of insurance. They didnt say so directly, but it could be argued that the 
implication was that there may have been some form of error in not applying the 
correct procedure in May 2016, when the three year build period was exceeded, or 
soon after that at least.More recently theyve told us that the net effect of their actions (or inaction) was that 
Mrs S and Mr S were given leeway  of about two years  to complete the build, but 
that eventually they had to come to the conclusion that the risk was now too great for 
them to be able to offer the warranty. They came to this conclusion, I assume, just 
before their communication with Mrs S and Mr S in December 2018.
If Amtrust made a conscious decision to allow an extra period for the build to be 
completed, as their most recent correspondence with us at least implies, I dont 
believe thats evidenced in the documents weve been given. It appears, from the 
information we have, that they simply carried on without necessarily picking up that 
the build period had been exceeded.
But in either case, I think its fair to say that Amtrust made some errors in the way 
they handled the situation. If they did very kindly intend to extend the period, but for a 
limited amount of extra time, they should certainly have told Mrs S and Mr S that.
Alternatively, if they simply missed the date due to an administrative oversight, 
theyve failed to provide good customer service to Mrs S and Mr S and failed to 
communicate effectively with them. In short, they failed to notify Mrs S and Mr S that 
the build period was exceeded and that the warranty wouldnt be provided. In fact, 
theyve gone on to communicate in such a way as to encourage Mrs S and Mr S to 
believe that all was well.
Because of that, Im minded to uphold Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint. I think Amtrust 
made a mistake and failed to provide a good service to Mrs S and Mr S. To that 
extent, I agree with our investigators view on this case.
Where I disagree is in terms of what should happen now and what Amtrust need to 
do to put things right.
Mrs S and Mr S have explained why their build took longer than originally expected  
and longer than the three years allowed under the terms of the policy. They had 
some problems to deal with that could not have been foreseen. What happened isnt 
Mrs S and Mr Ss fault  and they have my sympathy about the issues theyve faced.
However, as Ive mentioned above, Amtrust are entitled to determine what risks they 
wish to cover - and for what price. They made an offer to the market  which Mrs S 
and Mr S took up  based on the terms set out in the policy documents.
In my view, that means Amtrust were entitled to withdraw the warranty offer as and 
when Mrs S and Mr S failed to meet the conditions  albeit for reasons largely 
beyond their control.
In making decisions on cases where we believe that the business has made a 
mistake, we always have to ask ourselves what should have happened - if that 
mistake hadnt been made. And our aim is always to put the customer back in the 
position they should have been in had the error not occurred, in so far as thats 
possible.
In this case, if Amtrust hadnt made any errors, one of two things would have 
happened. Either Mrs S and Mr S would have been told in May 2016 (or soon after) 
that the warranty was cancelled. They wouldnt have got their premiums back. And, if 
they wanted their house to be covered, they would have had to get insurance or a 
warranty from elsewhere. All of this would have been in line with the policy terms and 
conditions Mrs S and Mr S agreed to.Or, if Amtrust had decided to offer some leeway, they would have communicated that 
to Mrs S and Mr S and, presumably, said that they would assess the risk  and 
whether they were willing to accept it  at the end of that additional period.
In that case, given the time it took to complete the build and the other relevant 
factors, Amtrust would have been within their rights  again, according to the terms 
and conditions  to cancel the warranty. And again, Mrs S and Mr S would not have 
got their premiums back. And would have had to seek cover elsewhere.
So, although I think Amtrust made errors in their customer service and their 
communications with Mrs S and Mr S, I dont think that means they would otherwise 
have offered the warranty. In fact, Im satisfied they wouldnt have offered it. So, I 
dont think it would be reasonable now for me to ask them to reinstate the warranty or 
to pay for alternative cover for Mrs S and Mr S.
In summary, Mrs S and Mr S breached the conditions of the policy. That may not 
have been their fault, but nor was it Amtrusts. And once the conditions were 
breached, Amtrust were entitled to cancel the warranty, because they were unwilling 
to cover that risk and they had been clear about that form the outset.
So, I think Mrs S and Mr S have been put to some inconvenience as a result of 
Amtrusts errors. I think they have likely been caused a degree of distress. And 
theyve certainly had their expectations raised and then disappointed due to the delay 
in Amtrust deciding to cancel the policy.
In my view, £500 in compensation for that amount of distress and inconvenience 
would be appropriate  and thats what Im minded to instruct Amtrust to pay to Mrs S 
and Mr S.
But Im not going to ask Amtrust to reinstate the warranty, or pay for alternative 
cover, or return the premiums Mrs S and Mr S paid.
The responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust have told us they are happy to accept my provisional decision and to pay the 
suggested £500 compensation to Mrs S and Mr S.
Mrs S and Mr S responded with further detailed comment and information. Ill summarise 
their position. This is a summary, not a word-for-word reiteration.
Mrs S and Mr S find it contradictory that I proposed to uphold their complaint, but not to 
require Amtrust to compensate them for: 
the cost of their new warranty (and the interest on the overdraft they used to pay for 
it); 
the time they spent researching alternative warranties; 
the £400 they paid to a mortgage broker who then terminated the relationship 
because Amtrust cancelled the warranty; 
the extra interest they had to pay on their mortgage from a specialist lender because 
they had to declare theyd been turned down for a mortgage previously (which only 
happened because Amtrust cancelled the warranty without notice);the brokers fee (£1,295) for that new mortgage.
They believe those financial burdens could have been avoided had Amtrust treated them 
fairly.
Mrs S and Mr S believe Amtrust acted unfairly and mis-led them by appearing to continue 
with the contract  including site visits  after the three-year period expired. This continued 
right up to the communication in 2018 which appeared to suggest Amtrust were simply 
waiting for the local authority building certificate before starting the 10-year warranty period.
They also think they should have been given notice or warning before the contract was 
terminated. And they think Amtrust deliberately didnt give them notice or inform them earlier 
because they wanted to cancel the warranty but still take the premiums.
Mrs S and Mr S think our process is flawed because the complaint only came to a final 
decision from an ombudsman  which reversed the earlier view of our investigator (which 
was more beneficial to them) - because Amtrust failed to engage in the process.
Mrs S and Mr S say they werent aware of the three-year build limit. And it wasnt brought to 
their attention at any point by Amtrust  who they were trusting as the experts  until they 
cancelled the warranty.
They also think the three-year limit is arbitrary and doesnt take into account the fact that 
many self-build projects experience similar delays.
Finally, they say they havent been treated with respect by Amtrust, who have ignored their 
communications, treated them as a nuisance and failed to engage with them to seek a 
mutually-satisfactory solution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at all the information we have on file. And Ive carefully considered the 
points made by Mrs S and Mr S in response to my provisional decision. I know Mrs S and 
Mr S will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind about the outcome of their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all, I dont agree with Mrs S and Mr S that theres inconsistency in saying Amtrust 
made errors  and asking them to compensate Mrs S and Mr S for those  but not asking 
them to pay for the second warranty and all the other costs Mrs S and Mr S have set out in 
their response to my provisional decision.
Fundamentally, Amtrust were entitled to cancel the warranty, according to the terms and 
conditions agreed by Mrs S and Mr S. The fact they made errors in the way they 
communicated with Mrs S and Mr S led to disappointed expectations for which I believe they 
should be compensated. But that doesnt, in my view, make Amtrust morally obliged to stick 
with the warranty agreement and/or pay to replace it.
I know Mrs S and Mr S say they were relying on Amtrust as the experts  and consulted with 
them at key points in the build  but the term on which Amtrust relied to cancel the warranty 
isnt obscure, isnt hidden in the small print and isnt difficult to understand. 
Mrs S and Mr S say they werent aware of that particular clause until the warranty was cancelled. But if that is the case, that wasnt Amtrusts fault. Given the type of product they 
were buying, I dont think its unreasonable to say that Mrs S and Mr S should have been 
aware of the terms, given that they were clearly set out in the policy documents. 
As for the fairness of the term itself (the three year limit), as I said in my provisional decision, 
its not for us to interfere with the risk calculations made by Amtrust or with the terms they 
choose to put to the market. 
They thought it presented a greater  and unacceptable - risk to them if a self-build project 
went over three years to completion. Thats their business, as long as it was clear what the 
customer was buying. And in this case, Im satisfied the terms on which the policy was 
offered were absolutely clear. 
Mrs S and Mr S have set out extra costs they incurred in buying a new warranty and getting 
a mortgage on their property. They have my sympathy for the situation they found 
themselves in, given that they experienced difficulties which delayed the build and which 
were not in any way their fault. 
But neither were they Amtrusts fault. And the key point for me here is that whether Amtrust 
had cancelled the warranty exactly three years from the start date or at any point later  and 
whether or not they communicated their intentions very well to Mrs S and Mr S  they were 
always entitled to cancel the warranty, if they chose to do so.
And if the warranty was cancelled, Mrs S and Mr S would always have had to buy a new 
one, if they wanted to mortgage their property. So, I cant fairly say Amtrust should pay for 
that new warranty now. The new warranty became necessary because the build wasnt 
completed within the time limits set out in the contract  and not because Amtrust failed to 
communicate properly with Mrs S and Mr S.
The same logic applies to the additional mortgage costs incurred by Mrs S and Mr S. They 
had to use a specialist broker and mortgage company  and pay higher interest rates - not 
fundamentally because Amtrust failed to communicate properly with them, but because the 
build took too long to complete  which caused Amtrust to quite legitimately cancel the 
warranty.
Amtrust arent responsible for Mrs S and Mr Ss decision to seek a mortgage initially knowing 
they had no warranty. And theyre not responsible for the risk calculations made by the 
company who eventually provided the mortgage. Those calculations will no doubt have been 
made on the basis of the facts, not on the basis of any misleading impression given by 
Amtrust.
I dont agree with Mrs S and Mr S that Amtrust intentionally carried on with the relationship 
after three years because they wanted to take the premiums. The premiums were paid up 
front in any case, but more importantly, the terms and conditions (as quoted above) state 
clearly that premiums will not be refunded if Amtrust cancel the warranty because the three-
year limit has been exceeded.
I do agree with Mrs S and Mr S that they werent treated with the appropriate level of respect 
and that Amtrust failed to deliver good customer service. And thats why Im upholding the 
complaint and requiring Amtrust to pay the £500 compensation.
Finally, I ought to also clarify at this point that this complaint didnt come to me for a final 
decision as a result of Amtrust failing to engage in our process. They did engage - and 
actively asked for a final decision when they didnt agree with our investigators view. And 
thats something they are entitled to do under the rules which govern the way our service operates.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, I think Mrs S and Mr S have been put to some 
inconvenience as a result of Amtrusts errors. I think theyve been caused a degree of 
distress. And theyve had their expectations raised and then disappointed due to the delay in 
Amtrust deciding to cancel the policy.
For those reasons, Amtrust should compensate Mrs S and Mr S by paying them £500 for 
their trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint.
Amtrust must pay Mrs S and Mr S £500 for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman