DRN-3206811
The complaint
Ms P complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms P was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date AmountTerm 
(months)Monthly repayment Total Amount Payable
5/2/2016 £5,000 60 £195.46 £11,727.60
Ms P said that TFS provided the loan to her without looking into her finances properly. She 
told us that this very high interest loan put her in a worse financial state.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ps complaint. He didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided the loan to Ms P and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take 
to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that:
Ms P had a negative credit history in terms of missed payments and defaults, but this 
was quite some time before this application and wasnt enough on its own to say the 
loan shouldnt have been approved
borrowers making this sort of application often had bad credit history, but it didnt 
mean their circumstances hadnt improved or that the loan was automatically 
unaffordable
Ms P had disposable income
TFS was entitled to rely on information provided by Ms P
TFS had an accurate understanding of her financial situation and the lending was 
affordable for her
TFS hasnt seen any evidence suggesting the loan was approved unfairly.
TFS asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh 
and independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When she applied for the loan, TFS asked Ms P about her income and monthly outgoings as 
well as carrying out credit checks. It sent this information to us so Ive been able to see 
information that TFS relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Ms P. 
The income and expenditure assessment done by TFS suggested that the loan potentially 
looked affordable for Ms P. When looking at what she could afford, it worked out that Ms P 
would be left with an amount of at least £1,000 after paying her TFS loan. So TFS felt this 
loan was affordable for Ms P.
But I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Ms P based on the 
information it had gathered. 
I say this because, despite recording information that appeared to show that Ms P had 
enough spare cash each month easily to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 
TFS shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information. TFS could see that what Ms P had declared about her financial situation overall was significantly at odds with 
what TFS saw on its credit checks showing Ms Ps credit history. 
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of multiple defaulted accounts that 
TFS could see on the credit checks it obtained. I appreciate that old defaults dating 
back some years might provide limited information to a lender about someones 
current financial situation. But, I think TFS should have been concerned to see that 
just 4 months before she applied for this loan, Ms P had two defaults registered 
against her with a combined balance outstanding of more than £2,500. So it looked 
like Ms Ps money problems not only dated back a number of years  they appeared to 
be ongoing. 
I can see that the credit checks TFS acquired also showed that Ms P was at or close 
to the £250 overdraft limits on her current accounts and she had maxed out credit 
cards.
On her loan application, Ms P had also mentioned having a county court judgement.
I think TFS wasnt able to say in these circumstances that Ms P was in a position where it 
could safely say it looked likely shed be able to sustainably afford the repayments on this 
loan over the five year term she had signed up to.
I think TFS should have realised that the information it had gathered overall painted a very 
different picture to the financial situation Ms P had described suggesting she had ample 
spare cash. Like our investigator, I think the credit history TFS saw strongly suggested Ms P 
was still having serious money problems and despite what she had told TFS her finances 
were, in reality, under significant stress. As she had struggled to repay her existing credit 
commitments its hard to understand why TFS thought this  loan would be affordable for 
Ms P. I think it ought fairly to have understood the significant risk that taking out this loan 
would be detrimental to Ms Ps financial situation overall. 
I've taken into account that the loan was taken out partly to consolidate some of Ms Ps debt 
 but this doesnt affect my view overall that TFS didnt make a fair lending decision.
TFS paid the loan to Ms Ps guarantor to pass on to her, so it didnt have control over 
whether it would in fact be used to pay off other credit. TFS was also aware that part of 
the loan was going to be spent on home improvements  so adding to her 
indebtedness at a time when Ms Ps recent track record suggested she was 
repeatedly borrowing. TFS could see that she had taken out three unsecured loans in 
the previous few months, a clear sign she was already facing financial difficulties as 
borne out by her recent defaults. Thinking about all of this information, I dont think 
TFS could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan to Ms P wouldnt put 
her in a worse position by increasing her overall debts. 
The fact that Ms P paid the loan satisfactorily for a time doesnt mean that she was able to 
do so in a way that was sustainable for her. In the event, she ran into payment problems and 
TFS had to set up a payment arrangement for her was reasonably foreseeable in my view. 
All in all, I havent seen enough to be able to say that TFS made a fair lending decision 
based on the information in front of it when it provided this loan. 
As Ms P has been further indebted with the costs of lending that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS did wrong. 
So, I think TFS needs to put things right.Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Ms P has 
indicated that she is happy with our investigators assessment and I havent seen anything 
which makes me think TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms P in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms P to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms P received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Ms P made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Ms P having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms P bearing in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions 
whilst its fair that Ms Ps credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So TFS should remove any adverse 
information it placed on Ms Ps credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman