DRN-1321927
The complaint
Miss S complains Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a term assurance policy.
What happened
Miss S took out this policy on the recommendation of a Lloyds adviser. She met the adviser 
in branch on 4 October 2003, and the Fact Find completed after that meeting said she 
wanted to ensure her mortgage was protected and that there were no debts in the event of 
her death. Lloyds also prepared a quotation for Miss S. It said This quotation shows how 
much youll pay for a reducing amount of cover over a fixed term and that Miss S would 
receive £55,100 of life and critical illness cover but The initial amount will reduce in line with 
the outstanding balance of a repayment mortgage.
Lloyds went on to prepare a range of documents for Miss S regarding this policy. These 
included a Summary & Recommendations, the Key Features and a policy Declaration. The 
Your agreement with us section of the Summary & Recommendations said Important - You 
should read the information recorded on this document very carefully, prior to signing it. 
Below that, it said:
I understand that the advice has been given on the information provided and that I 
am under no obligation to act upon any recommendation that has been made.
I understand and agree with your assessment of my financial needs.
I have had explained to me and understand the risks and characteristics of the 
products which are being proposed. 
I can confirm that my responses to your recommendations are accurately shown on 
this letter and I understand what you are proposing for me.
I have received and/or had explained to me, read and understood the following; 
oA Business Card
oTerms of Business Letter received on 25th Oct 2003
oYour Guide to Scottish Widows Funds (where appropriate)
oThe relevant Key Features Document(s)/Brochure(s)
oPersonal Illustration/Quotation
oSummary & Recommendations
oCancellation Rights'
 
Miss S signed the Summary & Recommendations on 25 October 2003. The same day, she 
also signed the Declaration which said In connection with each of the policies I am applying 
for, I have received a personal illustration, a key features document and an explanatory 
brochure. The policy then started on 28 October 2003. 
It seems that publicity about payment protection insurance (PPI) made Miss S think she 
might have been mis-sold this policy. So in February 2019 she complained to Lloyds. She 
said it hadnt told her the policy was optional and hadnt explained the policy exclusions. So 
she wasnt able to make an informed decision about whether the policy was suitable for her.
In its final response, Lloyds said its adviser had recorded the detailed discussions that had 
taken place in October 2003, and that on 25 October 2003 Miss S had signed a Declaration to say the risks and characteristics of the policy had been explained to her and that she 
understood them. It said it had given Miss S a Key Features document and a quotation 
setting out the cover provided. And that taking out life cover wasnt a condition of her 
mortgage, as set out in the mortgage application form shed signed  though her mortgage 
was with another lender, and not Lloyds. Lloyds said that after the policy started, the insurer 
underwriting it sent Miss S full policy details in the form of a policy schedule and policy 
provisions. Lloyds said it had given Miss S suitable advice.
Miss S still thought Lloyds hadnt told her the policy was optional and hadnt explained the 
policy to her. So she asked our service to investigate. She explained shed thought the policy 
was a level benefit but had recently found out her critical illness cover had decreased. And 
that she didnt need the policy when she took it out, as she was single and in her twenties.
After looking into things, our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. He said he hadnt 
seen anything in the documents from the start of the policy to suggest Miss S was required 
to take it out. He didnt think Lloyds had failed to provide Miss S with the information she 
needed to make an informed decision. And he didnt think the advice Lloyds gave Miss S 
was unsuitable or that the policy was unaffordable for her. 
Miss S disagreed. In summary, she said:
She shouldnt have been sold a life and critical illness policy as the Fact Find states 
no need identified for life protection, and need identified, but did not wish to 
investigate for income protection and critical illness. 
She didnt recall receiving the Key Features documents, and that she hadnt signed 
that particular document to say she received and understood it.
She didnt recall wanting to ensure her next of kin had no debts. She was more likely 
to have thought, as a single person, that her home would be sold to pay any debt.
The declaration pages of the Summary & Recommendations shed signed didnt 
specifically state shed received and understood a Key Features document  the Key 
Features was instead mentioned on the page before the declaration pages.
The policy schedule didnt say it was a decreasing benefit policy, and that wasnt 
made clear to her.
Meeting in person with the adviser meant she felt pressured to buy the policy.
 
Because Miss S disagreed, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it.
In this particular case, Miss S took out this policy after meeting with a Lloyds adviser in 
branch. I wasnt present at that meeting so I cant say for certain what each party said. 
Therefore I have to look at what evidence I have from that time  in this case, thats the Fact 
Find, Quotation, Summary & Recommendations, Key Features, the Declaration and the 
policy schedules and provisions.
 
was it clear this policy was optional?
Lloyds says that the mortgage application Miss S signed said taking this policy wasnt a 
condition of her mortgage. That mortgage application was produced by a different lender, and Ive not been provided with a copy of it. But I dont think I need to see a copy of it. Thats 
because Ive instead seen the Summary & Recommendations Miss S signed. This document 
explained what Lloyds was recommending and why.
The Your agreement with us section starts by saying Miss S should read the document 
carefully before signing it and goes on to say I understand that the advice has been given 
on the information provided and that I am under no obligation to act upon any 
recommendation that has been made. Based on this, Im satisfied Lloyds took reasonable 
steps to inform Miss S that she didnt have to take out this policy. And Ive seen nothing in 
any of the other documents Ive been provided with to suggest it told her she had to take out 
this policy.
did Lloyds explain the policy?
Miss S says Lloyds didnt explain the policy exclusions to her. As Ive said, I wasnt present 
when Miss S met the adviser. But Ive seen that the first page of the Key Features says the 
policy will pay a cash sum if Miss S died, or was diagnosed with either a terminal illness or 
one of a range of specified illnesses. Page four sets out the list of specified illnesses. And 
page five says full details of any exclusions or conditions are available on request. 
Its important to note this document only needed to highlight the key features -  it wasnt the 
full policy document. But I think it included enough information to make clear the policy only 
covered certain conditions and what these were. And I think it did this in the first few pages.
Im satisfied Lloyds either went through the Key Features with Miss S, or provided her with a 
copy of it. I say that because Miss S signed the Summary & Recommendations document 
which said I have received and/or had explained to me, read and understood the following 
The relevant Key Features Document(s)/Brochure(s).
Miss S says she doesnt recall receiving the Key Features and didnt sign it. And that the 
declaration section of the Summary & Recommendations which she did sign didnt 
specifically mention Key Features. I can see the Key Features wasnt a document that asked 
for a signature. Instead, Miss S was asked to sign the Summary & Recommendations 
document to say shes received the Key Features, amongst other documents. 
When someone is asked to sign a document, I think its reasonable to expect theyd read the 
whole document and not just the particular section where they put their signature. So Id 
expect Miss S to have read the whole Summary & Recommendations document. At five 
pages long, I dont think it was unreasonably lengthy. 
Miss S also says Lloyds didnt explain it was a decreasing benefit policy. Again, I cant be 
certain what was said when Miss S met the adviser. But the first page of the two page 
Quotation Lloyds produced the same day says the amount of cover will reduce. The first line 
says This quotation shows how much youll pay for a reducing amount of cover over a fixed 
term A little further down, the Your Plan Summary section says the initial amount of 
cover is £55,100 but The initial amount will reduce in line with the outstanding balance of a 
repayment mortgage. Miss S signed the Summary & Recommendations to say shed 
received the Quotation or had it explained to her. Based on this, I think Lloyds took 
reasonable steps to explain that the policy benefits would decrease over time. 
If Miss S was unsure about any aspect of the policy before she bought it, I would have 
expected her to ask Lloyds further questions before she signed the Summary & 
Recommendations document. But Ive seen nothing to suggest she did.
was the policy unsuitable?Miss S says she didnt need this policy when she took it out. She says she was single and in 
her twenties at the time, and more likely to think the sale of her property would cover any 
mortgage debt in the event of her death. But I dont think the policy was unsuitable for her. 
Thats because the evidence suggests Miss S was taking out a mortgage at around the start 
of this policy. And the policy wouldve paid off her mortgage in full - not just in the event of 
her death but also if she became terminally ill, or critically ill with one of the conditions 
specified in the policy. 
So the policy protected Miss S while she was alive, not just if she died. And I dont think the 
policy was unaffordable for her, as the Fact Find suggests the premiums were a small 
proportion of Miss Ss disposable income at that time.
Miss S says meeting the adviser in person means she would have felt pressured to buy the 
policy.  I've seen an appointment letter that suggests Miss S initially met the adviser on 4 
October 2003, but she signed the Declaration to say she wanted the policy about three 
weeks later. So Miss S didnt buy the policy on the spot. Therefore, Ive not seen enough 
evidence to be able to reasonably say she was pressured into buying it.
Miss S also says she shouldnt have been sold a life and critical illness policy as the Fact 
Find states no need identified for life protection, and need identified, but did not wish to 
investigate for income protection. I can see it does say this. But the Fact Find was carried 
out to understand the circumstances and initial wishes of Miss S, and it says she wanted to 
fully protect her mortgage and ensure there were no debts in the event of her death. 
The adviser later recommended, in the Summary & Recommendations, that she could do so 
by taking out this life and critical illness policy. As Ive said, I think Lloyds took reasonable 
steps to explain the policy to Miss S and she went on to accept its recommendation. So I 
think her initial wishes changed after Lloyds explained how she could protect her mortgage.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied this policy wasnt mis-sold to Miss S so Im 
not asking Lloyds to do anything further. Ultimately Miss S has had the benefit of this policys 
protection. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman