The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly lent him two loans that he couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
Mr T successfully applied for two loans with HSBC  one in 2016 and one in 2018. Towards 
the end of 2018 he fell into arrears as he could no longer meet the required payments. The 
loans defaulted.
Mr T said it was irresponsible for HSBC to have agreed the loans in the first place as he 
couldnt afford the repayments due to the amount of other debt. He also said HSBC had 
charged him excessive fees for going over his agreed overdraft. He made a complaint to 
HSBC.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said the loan applications were done online so 
decisions were based on the information provided by Mr T. Further it said it hadnt been 
aware Mr T was in financial difficulties until it was contacted by a debt charity on his behalf, 
so didnt think it was unreasonable that fees were charged for exceeding the overdraft.
Mr T didnt think this was fair, he said HSBC should have been aware that he couldnt afford 
the loans from the information available to it. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that as HSBC hadnt provided the information it relied upon while making the lending 
decisions he had instead considered what it would likely have seen. He said he considered 
Mr Ts disposable income after the loan repayments were taken into account were 
reasonable and didnt see a reason why HSBC would think it was unaffordable.
Mr T didnt agree. He said the amount he had left over after his essential expenditure, wasnt 
enough to live on. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC was required to lend responsibly. It needed to check that Mr T could afford to repay 
his loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks HSBC needed to do, but the checks 
should have been proportionate to the circumstances of each loan, which might include 
considerations about the amount borrowed, Mr Ts borrowing history and so on.
DRN-1629427HSBC hasnt provided evidence of the checks that it carried out at the point of the two loan 
applications, as it says this is commercially sensitive. It says both applications were made 
online and checks showed that Mr T was eligible for the loans. As HSBC hasnt provided 
evidence of the checks it carried out, I cant fairly say that it did enough checks. So I now 
need to consider whether any assessment failings resulted in HSBC agreeing to lend to Mr T 
irresponsibly. In order to do this I need to consider what I think proportionate checks would 
have most likely shown for each loan application.
The first loan application was made in 2016. This was for £10,000. I have looked at copies of 
Mr Ts bank statements from around that time. And I have conside red comments from Mr T 
about his income and expenditure. After taking into account all essential payments  
including the loan applied for - it seems Mr T would have had around £500 disposable 
income left available each month. HSBC has also commented that the reason given for the 
loan was to consolidate other debt. So it would be reasonable for it to believe this would be 
the minimum Mr T would have available. 
I have considered this alongside information from Mr Ts credit file. Although he had some 
borrowing at the time, he was keeping up with all payments. And he had no adverse data on 
his file, so it was unlikely that a credit check would have prompted HSBC to ask further 
questions about his circumstances here. 
When considering these two factors together, it seems HSBC made a responsible decision 
to lend. Although Mr T had some other credit, he was keeping up to date with payments and 
could afford these with money left over.
In 2018 Mr T applied for an additional loan of £3,000. At this stage Mr T had a higher amount 
of borrowing than previously. And I can see he had regularly gone over his available 
overdraft limit of his account with HSBC. However, his monthly income had also increased. 
And his credit file shows he was still managing his credit re-payments well. Further he had 
not had problems with the previous loan and had met the monthly payments. And from 
Mr Ts own calculations, he had a similar amount left over after meeting all required 
payments. So I think it again seems HSBC made a responsible lending decision.
Mr T has explained that he had a problem with gambling. And he was using the borrowed 
money to fund this habit. However I dont think HSBC could have reasonably been aware of 
this. As it was an online application (each time), HSBC relied on Mr Ts own assessment of 
income and expenditure. It also considered his track record of managing credit through a 
credit check and what it already knew about him. So I dont think it was required to ask 
further questions unless prompted to do so by some adverse information from those checks.
Further HSBC has shown that it sent a number of letters to Mr T when he fell behind with 
payments to the loans. These offered the opportunity for Mr T to contact HSBC to discuss 
any financial difficulties. Mr T didnt do this, and HSBC werent aware of the problems he 
faced until it was contacted by a debt management charity on his behalf after the loans 
defaulted. So I dont think HSBC could have been reasonably expected to have been aware 
of Mr Ts financial problems before this point.
So based on the information that would likely have been available for HSBC to view at the 
time, I think it lent responsibly to Mr T in both 2016 and 2018. So I wont ask it to do anything 
differently.
Mr T has also said he is unhappy with the amount he has been charged for exceeding his 
overdraft. After reviewing these charges, I dont think they are excessive and are in line with 
FCA guidance. Further the charges are laid out in the terms and conditions of the account. 
So I cant say HSBC has acted unfairly by imposing these charges and fees.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman