DRN-2361893
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt make him aware that he would be 
charged for transactions he made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card provided by Tesco. In June and July 2020 he used the card to 
purchase shares from a trading platform. He said he was surprised to find hed been 
charged a fee for each transaction. He said the fees totalled £500.
Hes unhappy that Tesco didnt make him aware he would be charged before hed 
completed each transaction. He said hes aware that fees and charges are explained in the 
terms and conditions document he was given. But he thinks he should have been alerted at 
the time, as he is by other providers.
He also complains that the fee of 3.75% was excessive.
He wanted Tesco to refund him the fees, and to improve how they communicate the charges 
to customers.
Tesco said these types of transactions have attracted a fee since May 2018, and they 
notified all customers of this in April 2018. They also said this information is on the reverse of 
every account statement, and on their website.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He believed Tesco applied all of the cash 
charges correctly and in line with terms and conditions of the account. He also thought 
theyd clearly explained what transactions were classed as cash transactions and theyd 
done enough to let Mr H know of the changes to his agreement.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. He felt that Tesco should be 
required to inform a customer at the point of transaction that a fee would be charged if they 
proceeded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint, for the same reasons as our investigator.
Ive seen a copy of the Notice of Variation Tesco sent to Mr H in May 2018. It sets out the 
changes to the terms and conditions. The notice sets out the changes section by section. In 
the fees and charges section it shows, in bold, that a handling fee of 3.99% will be applied 
to cash transactions. And it also states, again in bold, that cash transactions include, 
amongst other things, share trading.
Ive also seen a copy of the statements issued to Mr H. The statement includes a table that 
shows cash transactions attract a 3.99% handling fee.
So Im satisfied that Tesco took reasonable steps to inform Mr H that fees applied to share 
transactions, as it treated these as cash transactions. And on each statement it explained 
how they calculated the amount of fee that would be applied to each transaction of this type. 
And for the same reason as our investigator, Im not able to say whether or not the amount 
charged was excessive. But Im satisfied theyve applied the charge in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs account. And I dont think theyve acted unfairly.
I understand Mr H feels strongly that Tesco shouldve done more. And hes said Tesco 
should be more open about the charges, and should inform consumers a fee will be 
generated prior to the transaction being completed. 
Its for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to impose rules like this on credit card 
providers. Im satisfied that Tesco provided Mr H with sufficient information to make him 
aware that these charges are applied. Credit cards providers are required to set out the 
various terms that apply to their cards. And its normal for these terms to be set out in a 
terms and conditions leaflet. Tesco did this, and Mr H says hes aware of the terms and 
conditions document. 
So I cant say that Tesco have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to take any 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman