DRN-4158757
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided her with poor customer service 
regarding payments she tried to make to a third party account. 
What happened
Miss S says that she phoned Barclays on 10 March 2023 as her £5,000 payment to a third 
party account had not been successful. She says she was told there was a £2,000 limit on 
the mobile application (app), and then she was transferred through to the fraud department 
who did some checks and told her everything was ok. Miss S says she tried to transfer the 
funds on this call, but it wasnt working via their app, so the call handler asked if there was a 
text option she could try and after several attempts she saw there was a text option so she 
tried this and it worked. 
Miss S says she called Barclays and she wanted to log a complaint about the app not 
working when putting in funds. She says if she had received a notification about this, then 
she wouldnt have had to waste her time ringing Barclays to find out what was happening. 
Miss S says she asked to speak to the call handlers manager, and he told her he had no 
manager. Miss S spoke with other call handlers to log her complaint. 
Barclays said they apologise for any inconvenience and misinformation, so they would be 
supporting Miss S complaint, and they offered her £50 compensation. They said after 
listening to numerous calls, the payment had been picked up by their third party card 
providers verification system, so the call handler told her to attempt the payment again, but 
this had failed as Miss S had gone over her daily limit. Miss S brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator said she thought the £50 compensation offer was fair. She said Barclays 
have said that there wasnt any mobile app issues at the time, so Miss S had been 
misinformed, however this did not stop her from completing her payment on the same day.
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said the calls were an 
important factor and she wanted me to listen to them. She said Barclays should send 
customers notifications automatically if there were any errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss S complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make it clear to Miss S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
they should operate their procedures, such as whether to send a notification to their 
customers if there is an issue with their app. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive listened to the calls which Miss S had with Barclays on 10 March 2023. The first call is 
where Miss S tells the call handler she has been unable to transfer the £5,000. The call 
handler looks into this, and she says when she transfers from the app to somewhere else, 
there can be a limit of £2,000 on the app. Miss S explains what she did and the call handler 
says it could be because she is trying to authorise the transfer through the app, that is why 
the limit may be £2,000. Miss S replies ok, thats fine. The call handler says she will speak 
to one of her colleagues about the payment, and Miss S is transferred to another call 
handler, who works in the fraud department. 
Ive listened to this call also. The call handler confirmed that the payment had been picked 
up for some additional checks and that is why it hadnt gone through. The call handler 
confirms that she will confirm the payment is genuine, so the block can be removed, and 
then Miss S would need to start the payment again. Miss S loads up her third party app and 
clicks to deposit £5,000 with a debit card. She loads up the Barclays app, but the transaction 
fails. The call handler asks if it allows her to receive a One Time Passcode (OTP), but Miss 
S confirms it doesnt. Miss S then tries to deposit the £5,000 by a bank transfer, but she 
couldnt do this as it would take her over her daily limit. 
Miss S tries again for £2,000. There is an option to text a code. This was successful. The call 
handler tells Miss S that there is a problem confirming through the app at the moment and it 
might be a technical thing, so if she continues with the code that should work. Miss S tries a 
larger amount with the text code and that was successful. 
After listening to these calls, Barclays staff gave differing reasons for what happened. It had 
been suggested that the daily limit on the app was responsible for the payment not going 
through, but the fraud expert confirmed that the payment had been picked up for some 
additional checks and that is why the payment she made hadnt gone through. It appears 
there was a limit of £2,000 on the app, so Miss S was able to transfer via her debit card 
through a text code, and this rectified the issue as this didnt have the same limit. While the 
call handler said there was a problem with the app, Barclays have confirmed that there were 
no issues with the app that day. So it would be frustrating for Miss S to hear conflicting views 
about the app. 
It appears the issues with the app were due to the £2,000 app limit (and that is why she 
couldnt transfer the £5,000), and the security block. Although Im mindful that when the 
block was cleared and she tried the payment again this failed, this was only a matter of 
seconds after the block had cleared, so I cant rule it out that there was a slight time delay for 
this to filter through. 
Ive then listened to the call where Miss S rang to make a complaint. She tells the call 
handler that the previous call handler who she was speaking to ten minutes ago said there 
was an issue with the app, and if she had known and received a notification about this, then 
she wouldnt have had to ring them to get it sorted. The call handler appears to have 
difficulty understanding what Miss S is complaining about. He asks Miss S what she wants to 
resolve the complaint and she says £200. The call handler says he would only be offering 
£25 and if she wasnt satisfied he could give her the reference number for her to take her 
complaint to our service. The call handler says he will escalate the complaint to a senior 
manager and Miss S says she was told she could be given the reference number by him. Miss S said that the call handler had just said that he was going to refer the complaint to a 
manager, and the call handler said we do this and escalate it to a manager. Miss S asks to 
speak to a manager and the call handler says there is no-one (available) and he doesnt 
have a manager to speak to her. 
After listening to this call Im satisfied that it could have been handled better. There was 
miscommunication from the call handler which complicated matters. Im not persuaded that 
the call handler said he didnt have a manager, rather that there was no manager available 
to speak to Miss S. So I cant agree with her on this point. But I can understand why it would 
appear to her that this was said as the call handler wasnt clear throughout the call and at 
times he gave her conflicting information and he wasnt clear. 
On the next call Miss S had, the call handler did say he could pass her onto an expert team. 
Miss S asks why he can pass her to a manager and the previous call handler said he 
couldnt. But the call handler didnt say he was passing her to a manager. He explained his 
role and said he was a lower one, so if he got a complaint, he would need to pass it onto 
an expert. So it appears this was the reason why Miss S was transferred as the call handler 
could not deal with complaints.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Barclays have let Miss S 
down with conflicting information they gave her regarding the reason for her not being able 
to complete her transfer, and the call when she raised her complaint could have been 
handled much better. But in deciding what compensation is fair, I also need to be mindful 
that Miss S was able to make her payment on the day that she rang Barclays, and her 
complaint was raised on the call she had after this as she was given the reference number 
for it. It appears that there were extra security checks needed and she was able to complete 
this on the call. 
Miss S asked Barclays for £200 compensation on the call that I listened to. But this would be 
outside of our guidelines for what happened here. Our awards are not designed to punish a 
business. Miss S was able to complete her payment to her third party account within 30 
minutes of ringing Barclays. And her complaint was logged when she raised this as she was 
given a reference number for the complaint. But I am satisfied that she is due compensation 
for the conflicting/unclear information she was given across the calls on 10 March 2023 and 
the issues with the service regarding the complaint raised. 
Im satisfied that £50 is fair for what happened here for all of the service issues she had. It is 
in line with our guidelines and if Barclays had not offered her this amount then I would have 
awarded her this amount for what happened here. So it follows that Barclays should pay 
Miss S what they offered her, but I dont require them to do anything further.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss S £50 (less anything they 
have already paid her). But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman