DRN-2397627
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his accounts after he made other 
complaints. 
What happened
Mr T had two accounts with Nationwide. On 12 August 2020 Nationwide called Mr T and 
said that it had taken the decision to end its relationship with him and close his accounts. 
Nationwide said the level of complaints Mr T had made indicated that the service it was 
providing wasnt right for him. As a result, Nationwide advised Mr Ts accounts would close 
on 12 October 2020. 
Nationwide also wrote to Mr T on 12 August 2020 to confirm that his accounts would close 
on 12 October 2020. Nationwides letter said any funds that remained in Mr Ts account on 
the date it was closed would be sent to him by cheque. 
Mr T complained and Nationwide responded on 2 September 2020. Nationwide didnt agree 
to leave Mr Ts accounts open.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. On 12 
October 2020, while the investigator was reviewing Mr Ts complaint his account was closed 
with funds in it. The investigator arranged for Mr T to collect the remaining funds from a 
branch. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and said Nationwides terms and conditions 
allow it to close an account by giving 60 days notice. Mr T didnt agree and asked to appeal. 
As Mr T asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr T is upset and I appreciate he didnt want Nationwide to close his 
bank accounts. But businesses can choose to close accounts and end a relationship with a 
customer as long as it acts in line with the terms and conditions of their accounts. Ive looked 
at Mr Ts case and the relevant terms to see if Nationwide made an error or treated him 
unfairly. 
Nationwides current account terms give the following information: Closing the account:
74. You or we can close your account by ending the current account agreement. If we end 
this agreement we will give you not less than 2 months written notice. You can end this 
agreement at any time
Im satisfied that Nationwides terms allow it to take the decision to close a customers 
accounts. 
In response to the investigator, Mr T said he felt Nationwides decision was impacted by the 
number of complaints he made. Ive listened to Mr Ts calls with Nationwide in relation to this 
matter, including the call on 12 August 2020. During that conversation, Nationwide said that 
the number of complaints Mr T had made indicated it couldnt provide the service he was 
looking for. So, a decision to close his accounts had been taken. Nationwide has told Mr T 
that his complaint history was something it considered when deciding to close his accounts. 
As our investigator said, the account terms say both parties can choose to close an account. 
The terms say Nationwide has to provide two months written notice of its intention to close 
an account, but they dont say it has to give a reason. 
In this case, Nationwide called and wrote to Mr T on 12 August 2020 to give two months 
notice of its intention to close his accounts. The accounts were closed on 12 October 2020, 
in line with the information Nationwide sent Mr T. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but Im 
satisfied Nationwide acted in line with the terms when it closed his accounts. 
In response to the investigator, Mr T said Nationwide was asking him to follow rules that it 
has failed to follow itself. But I havent found any evidence that indicates Nationwide has 
failed to act in line with the account terms and conditions or industry guidelines. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. As Ive 
said above, Nationwides terms and conditions allowed it to take the decision to close Mr Ts 
accounts by giving 60 days notice of its intention. Im satisfied Nationwide acted in line with 
the terms and gave the required notice. Whilst I understand Mr Ts frustration at 
Nationwides decision, I havent found that it acted unfairly by ending its relationship with 
him. As I havent found that Nationwide made a mistake and Im satisfied it dealt with Mr T 
fairly, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman