DRN-4108245
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) consider her business 
current account (BCA) and Bounce Back Loan (BBL) to have been applied for and 
opened on a sole trader basis rather than on a limited company basis as Ms H contends 
should have been the case.
What happened
On 12 May 2020, Ms H successfully applied to NatWest for a BCA. Ms H then made a 
further successful application to NatWest on 10 June 2020, this time for a BBL.
In November 2022, Ms H raised a complaint with NatWest as she discovered that the BCA 
and BBL had been set up on a sole trader basis and not on a limited company basis as she 
believed should have been the case.
NatWest responded to Ms H and said that both accounts had been applied for by Ms H on a 
sole trader basis. NatWest also noted that the limited company Ms H believed the accounts 
should have been opened in the name of  which Ill refer to as O  was only incorporated 
in June 2020, meaning it wouldnt have been possible to have opened the BCA in May 2020, 
as Ms H did, on a limited company basis in relation to that not-yet-incorporated business.      
Ms H wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel NatWest had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed this situation and noted that O wouldnt have been eligible to receive 
a BBL, given that one of the eligibility criteria for the BBL scheme was that an applicant 
business had to have been trading before 1 March 2020  which O hadnt been. Ms H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I highlight this point because I note that Ms H has asked this service to investigate what she 
feels is the fabrication of evidence provided to this service by NatWest. But such an 
investigation into potential unlaw activity sits outside the remit of this service and isnt 
something this service possesses the authority to undertake.
I also note that Ms H has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding her 
complaint. Id like to thank Ms H for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Ms H notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Ms H and NatWest. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Under the rules of the BBL scheme, an applicant business had to have been trading prior to 
1 March 2020 and could borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover  up to a maximum 
amount of £50,000. Additionally, lenders such as NatWest were permitted by the BBL 
scheme to require BBL applicants to have an existing business relationship with them before 
BBL applications would be considered. And it was to satisfy this requirement for an existing 
business relationship with NatWest, to enable a later application for a BBL to be made, that 
Ms H applied for a BCA with NatWest in May 2020.
Ms Hs complaint is that she applied for the BCA and the BBL on a limited company basis  
in relation to O  rather than on a sole trader basis as NatWest maintain. But O hadnt been 
incorporated in May 2020, when Ms H made the BCA application with NatWest, and so it 
cant have been the case that Ms H applied for BCA in relation to O  because O didnt exist 
when she made the BCA application or when the BCA was subsequently opened.
Additionally, it wouldnt have been the case that Ms H would have been able to apply for a 
BBL on a limited company basis in relation to an existing business relationship  the BCA  
that existed on a sole trader basis. This is because NatWest required the business basis of 
the BCA and the BBL to be the same. So, because Ms H applied for the BCA on a sole 
trader basis and used the business relationship created by that BCA to apply for a BBL, the 
BBL also had to be on a sole trader basis.
I do note that when Ms H applied for the BBL, she did provide the details of O, which had 
been incorporated at that point. But I also note that when NatWest sent the BBL agreement 
for Ms H to review and electronically sign that the limited aspect of Os name had been 
removed and the loan was set up on a sole trader basis. And, as Ive explained above, given 
that Ms H applied for the BBL regarding her existing sole trader business relationship with 
NatWest, I dont feel that this was unreasonable or unfair. 
Ms H may ask why NatWest didnt contact her to discuss her BBL application upon noting 
that she had applied for it in the name of a limited company. In normal circumstances, I 
might agree with this point. But the BBL scheme was set up precisely because of abnormal 
circumstances  the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic  and many of the rules and 
regulations surrounding lending were suspended for this scheme. 
This includes that BBL applications were self-attested, and it wasnt expected that lenders 
such as NatWest would check the trading name of applicants  in much the same way as 
lenders werent expected to verify the business turnover information provided by the 
applicant at the point of application. And as mentioned, Ms H received the BBL agreement 
for her to review and electronically sign if she was happy with the information contained 
therein  which Ms H did.Ms H maintains that the documents provided to this service regarding the BCA and BBL 
account applications have been fabricated by NatWest. Conversely, NatWest stand by the 
documents that theyve provided. 
In instances such as this, where the testimonies of a complainant and a respondent 
business are in contradiction with one another, I must decide  if I feel its reasonably 
possible for me to do so  which of the two versions of events that have been put forwards I 
feel is the most plausible and most likely to have happened, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information and evidence available to me. 
In this instance, I find NatWests version of events to be more plausible and more likely to 
have taken place. And this is because I dont feel it is likely that NatWest have fabricated 
documents as Ms H suggests. Rather, given that Ms H cant have applied for a BCA on a 
limited company basis in relation to O  as Ive previously explained  I feel its more likely 
that Ms H did apply for both the BCA and the BBL on a sole trader basis. I also feel that this 
would or reasonably should have been apparent to Ms H from the information presented to 
her during the application process. 
Ms O has stated that she made her application with a NatWest agent on the telephone and 
so was dependent on that agent to give her information which she contends that agent didnt 
fully do. But I note a recorded telephone call between Ms H and NatWest where Ms O 
explains that she applied for the BBL online  which is in line with the information provided 
by NatWest.
A further important point that must be considered here is that because O was only 
incorporated in June 2020, it didnt meet the eligibility criteria to enable it to have 
successfully applied for a BBL  because it wasnt trading prior to 1 March 2020.
But Ms H did successfully apply for a BBL, and she did receive the loan funds and benefited 
from them. And given that Ms H couldnt have made a successful BCA or BBL application on 
a limited company basis  given what Ive explained above  it can only have been the case 
that her successful BBL application was made on a sole trader basis. 
And ultimately, given that Ms H has received and had the benefit of the BBL funds given to 
her by NatWest on a sole trader basis, I feel its fair that she should continue to be 
considered as a sole trader regarding that BBL  and that she should fairly be expected to 
repay, with the liability of a sole trader, any balance of the BBL that remains outstanding.  
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take 
any further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Ms H was wanting, but I trust 
shell understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman