The complaint
Mr H complains about the information Barclays Bank UK Plc asked him to provide for his 
companys business current account.
Mr H has brought the complaint in his capacity as a director and Ill refer to the company as 
F in this decision. 
What happened
In October 2018, Barclays sent F a Know Your Customer (KYC) refresh form for Fs current 
account which Mr H says was completed and sent back to Barclays. In June 2019, Mr H 
says Barclays got in touch to advise him that the form had been completed incorrectly and 
that it had to be completed again and sent back  Barclays said the error on the form was to 
do with the company status as it was noted as dormant. Barclays say as the account still 
has transactions on it, its not considered as dormant.
Mr H doesnt think its necessary to fill out the form just to correct this wording and wants 
Barclays to accept the form as originally completed  Mr H believes F is dormant as it isnt 
actively trading. Mr H is also unhappy Barclays got his name wrong in the voice messages 
that were left. 
Barclays say the reason they are asking their customers to complete the KYC form is to 
ensure the information they hold is accurate, complete, in line with current standards and to 
ensure they meet their regulatory obligations. Barclays say if F wish to keep the business 
account open, the forms would need to be completed again with the correct information. 
Barclays were unable to find the voice messages Mr H referred to but offered Mr H £25 
compensation for saying his name incorrectly. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. She said after looking at the forms, she could 
see a lot of the boxes had dormant written in them which indicated to Barclays that the 
business was no longer running. However, Barclays viewed Fs business account as active 
as it still had active transactions on it. Therefore, she didnt think Barclays were acting 
unfairly by asking Mr H to fill out the form in line with how they view an account when it still 
has active transactions. Our investigator also said she thought the £25 compensation offered 
by Barclays was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed. He said F isnt trading so therefore doesnt have an active industry in which 
it participates in  in particular F has no business turnover, it doesnt offer any services and 
has no customers. Mr H says completing a new form would involve simply replacing the 
word dormant to not trading company which he feels would be a waste of time. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1537326Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for Barclays review of Fs account. Anti-money 
laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on regulated financial 
businesses. Banks in the UK are also required by law to comply with know your customer 
(KYC) requirements. In order to do so, banks in the UK must have suitable systems in place 
for customer identification. Financial institutions must establish the purpose and intended 
nature of a business as well as the origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. 
This applies to both new and existing relationships regardless of how many years a 
customer may have banked with a particular bank.
I appreciate Mr H has told us that F is no longer trading and that he considers it to be a 
dormant company. However, as Barclays and Mr H have acknowledged there are still some 
transactions on Fs account  Mr H says the transactions are bank charges and legal fees. 
Barclays say they would consider an account to be dormant if there were no active 
transactions for at least 18 months. But as this is not the case for Fs business current 
account, F wouldnt be considered a dormant company by Barclays definition. 
I note Mr H thinks that filling out the form again with the information Barclays have asked for 
is an inconvenience. And that he thinks the KYC form is badly designed. But I cant ask 
Barclays to change their processes  its up to them to determine how they wish to obtain 
information from their customers to ensure they have the most up to date and correct 
information to be able to meet their regulatory obligations.
As Barclays have explained, if F wishes to keep its business account open with Barclays, the 
KYC form will need to be completed with the correct information. And Barclays have said 
they contacted the KYC refresh team to have the form resent to F. So, its up to Mr H if he 
wishes to fill out the form again to be able to keep Fs account open. I understand Barclays 
have also provided Mr H with details on how to close Fs account if he wishes to do so.
Mr H says when he received voice messages from Barclays, they pronounced his name 
incorrectly. I can understand the frustration this would have caused but I think Barclays offer 
of £25 compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc have already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint which I 
think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if they haven't already done so, Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay F 
the £25 they previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman