DRN-4009126
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his contents insurance 
policy after items of shopping were stolen from his car.
What happened
Mr S had a contents insurance policy that was underwritten by AXA. It included cover for 
personal belongings while he was away from home. 
In October 2022 he had some shopping worth over £1,000 stolen from his car while it was 
parked at his partners house. He made a claim on his policy but AXA declined it. AXA said 
the section of cover had an exclusion if there was no evidence of a forced and violent entry 
when the theft took place. And it said as there was no evidence of this, then the claim 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said there had been other thefts from cars on the road that 
night. And he said AXA had admitted that the theft could have been carried out by the 
thieves overcoming the electronic keyless entry to the vehicle to gain entry, but hadnt 
considered this when declining his claim. He made a complaint which wasnt upheld, 
although AXA offered £25 compensation for the delay in responding to the complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that she didnt think AXA 
had done enough to show that the exclusion applied so thought it should carry out a more 
thorough investigation to determine whether it fairly would. And she thought that due to the 
delay it had caused it should pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Mr S accepted our investigators outcome, however AXA didnt. It said there was no 
evidence there had been forcible and violent entry so the claim couldnt progress. It asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to show that theres an insured peril  
thats something thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the 
claim or prove that an exclusion would apply.
Here, AXA has relied on the following exclusion in the relevant policy cover section:
What they are not covered for
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from unattended motor vehicles unless in 
a locked covered boot or glove compartment and theres evidence that forcible and violent 
entry took place.
Its said that as there was no evidence of forcible and violent entry then the policy wouldnt 
respond. 
Ive considered this but I dont think AXAs done enough to prove the exclusion applies here. 
Mr S has confirmed that the shopping was stolen from the concealed boot of his car. And 
from what Ive seen, AXA hasnt carried out any investigation into how entry was gained to 
the boot. When its applying an exclusion it is AXAs responsibility to prove that it applies. 
Without further investigation, AXA is unable to know whether there is evidence of forcible 
and violent entry and therefore unable to fairly and reasonably apply the exclusion.
This service generally considers that the use of force doesnt have to lead to damage to the 
vehicle. So the lack of immediately obvious evidence, isnt enough to say force was not 
applied.  
Further, when considering whether the action was violent, wed consider whether the level of 
force used was over and above what would usually be necessary to gain entry to the vehicle. 
So should the theft have happened by electronic means, we may think this was enough to 
prove a forcible and violent entry. But AXA hasnt shown that it has considered this. 
As AXA has carried out no investigation into how access was gained to the vehicle, I dont 
agree its done enough to prove the exclusion would apply. For this reason I agree with our 
investigator that AXA should re-consider the claim, in order to determine whether there is 
evidence that there was a forcible and violent entry. And therefore whether the exclusion 
would fairly and reasonably apply. It should also assess the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
By not carrying out an investigation into the claim in the first instance, AXA has caused Mr S 
the need to complain to this service in order for his claim to be fairly considered. Which has 
unnecessarily delayed a resolution for him. This has caused some distress and 
inconvenience and I agree with our investigator that AXA should pay £100 compensation to 
apologise for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr S complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to: 
carry out an investigation into how entry was gained to Mr S vehicle to establish if 
the exclusion would apply, and assess the claim against the remaining policy terms 
and conditions.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman