DRN-3443365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc did not fairly compensate them for mis-
selling payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a chain of loans. 
I know that Mr and Mrs Fs loans were not directly with Clydesdale. However, Clydesdale is 
responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Clydesdale for 
the rest of this decision. 
What happened
I know Mr and Mrs F have another PPI complaint with this service about a separate chain of 
loans. To be clear, my decision is about the following loans: 
Loan 
numberDate 
openedDate 
closed 
1 14/02/86 8/12/86
2 08/12/86 21/08/87
3 21/8/87 16/11/87
Mr and Mrs F complained to Clydesdale about the PPI policies sold alongside those loans. 
Clydesdale agreed it had mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs F and it offered to compensate them 
for that mis-sale. 
Mr and Mrs F say it took a very long time for Clydesdale to respond to the complaint. They 
also said that Clydesdale initially told them by telephone that they would get significantly 
more compensation than they received. 
Clydesdale agreed that it had not handled Mr and Mrs Fs complaint well. It said it had taken 
too long to deal with the dispute and that Mr and Mrs F shouldnt have been given incorrect 
information about the compensation. Clydesdale offered to pay Mr and Mrs F £100 to 
compensate them for those errors. I understand that compensation has now been paid to Mr 
and Mrs F. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept what Clydesdale said about their complaint. They thought they 
would get a lot more than they received from Clydesdale and so they complained to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought Clydesdales offer was fair. Mr and Mrs F 
disagreed with that view and so the matter was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but I agree with our adjudicator that Clydesdales offer 
was fair. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I dont need to look at what happened at the 
point of sale. Im looking at whether Clydesdale fairly compensated Mr and Mrs F. 
As Ive set out above, Im looking at a chain of three loans. I say this was a chain because 
after the initial loan was taken out, Mr and Mrs F refinanced. They used some of loan 2 to 
repay loan 1. They also used loan 3 to repay some of loan 2. 
Mr and Mrs F were sold single premium PPI policies. That means they had to borrow extra 
on top of their original loans to pay for the PPI cover. But as none of the loans ran to the end 
of their planned term, Mr and Mrs F would have received partial PPI refunds when each loan 
was repaid. That refund wouldnt usually have been paid directly to Mr and Mrs F, but would 
have reduced the amount they needed to pay each loan off. 
To calculate fair compensation, I would expect Clydesdale to put Mr and Mrs F in the 
position they would be in if PPI had never been sold in the first place. 
To do this, Clydesdale would need to work out and pay Mr and Mrs F the difference between 
what they actually paid with each repayment on the loan and what they would have paid 
without PPI. Id also expect Clydesdale to add simple interest to each of those payments 
from when Mr and Mrs F made each PPI payment until they get their money back. As Mr 
and Mrs Fs loans were paid back early, Clydesdale would also need to work out and pay the 
difference between what it cost to pay the loan off and what it would have cost to pay the 
loan off without the PPI. 
I have seen a copy of the calculation Clydesdale undertook in working out the compensation 
for the PPI that was mis-sold alongside these loans. 
For each loan, I can see Clydesdale calculated and refunded the amount Mr and Mrs F paid 
for PPI with each loan repayment. Looking at the cost of the PPI policy and how long the 
loans ran for, Im satisfied that these figures have been fairly calculated by Clydesdale.  
For loans 1 and 2, I can see there was part of the PPI premium that rolled forward into loans 
2 and 3 respectively. Clydesdale identified this and refunded the extra paid by Mr and Mrs F 
in that regard. 
As I said above, Id expect Clydesdale to pay simple interest on all of this to compensate Mr 
and Mrs F for being out of pocket. I can see Clydesdale calculated and paid 15% simple 
interest up to April 1993 and 8% simple interest thereafter. I am satisfied that these 
calculations are in line with what this service would expect. 
I know that Mr and Mrs F are not happy with the amount offered to them by Clydesdale and 
they feel they should have been paid more. But the amount of compensation paid in a case 
like this reflects the amount of money that was paid for the PPI policy in the first place. In this 
case, the loans Mr and Mrs F took out were relatively modest, so they paid a relatively 
modest amount for the PPI to reflect that. 
I said above that Mr and Mrs F were not happy with the way Clydesdale had handled their 
complaint. I am issuing a separate decision about the other loans that are subject to a 
complaint by Mr and Mrs F. I have dealt with their concerns about Clydesdales service in 
that decision. 
With all of these things in mind, I am satisfied that Clydesdales offer for loans 1, 2 and 3 is 
fair. I dont require it to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman