DRN-2934960
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) wouldnt give him 
a wine offer.
What happened
Mr C applied for a new current account with Virgin in November 2020. On 11 November 
2020, Virgin launched an incentive for new online account applications  this was a case of 
wine. 
Mr C complained that he applied for a new account on 12 November and therefore qualified 
for the wine offer.
Virgin said that Mr C applied for a new account on 5 November 2020. The incentive was only 
available for new applications from 11 November 2020. Although his account was opened 
when the incentive was open, his application started before it. So  he didnt qualify. Virgin 
apologised for some errors theyd made in dealing with his complaint and for this they paid 
compensation of £50.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Virgin had acted fairly. Mr C 
had applied for his account on 5 November 2020, which was before the incentive was 
launched on 11 November 2020. So  he didnt qualify for the free wine.
Mr C didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. He said that 
in a previous decision, the service had said in another complaint  that the previous 
application had failed, and the account was later reopened under a new application.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Virgins new account incentive were clear  its terms and conditions say that it 
was for new Virgin Money customers who Apply online for our Virgin Money current 
Account(and) complete a full bank account switch using the Current Account Switch 
Service. So  to qualify for the wine offer, Mr C would have to start the application process 
while the incentive was running.
Virgin have show us proof that the incentive went live on 11 November 2020. Theyve also 
shown us that Mr C applied for his account on 5 November 2020  but it wasnt opened until 
12 November 2020. Mr C argues that this brought him within the offer period. But I dont 
agree with this  Virgins offer is clearly targeted at new customers and for new applications 
 and so the key point of qualification is the date of application  not when the account was 
opened  following all the checks needed.
Ive listened to all the calls between Virgin and Mr C. They confirm that he applied for an 
account before 11 November 2020. On 3 November 2020  Mr C was following up his online 
application and was asking for its progress. On 5 November 2020  Mr C said hed been 
rejected for an account and was asked to call Virgin. The call handler then completed a 
further application  but the questions werent all answered by Mr C and she sent out the 
application form for completion.  On 8 November 2020, there were two calls. The call 
handlers said that the account wasnt yet open. On 12 November 2020, there were two calls. 
In the first one, the call handler said there had been an application, but an account wasnt 
yet opened  there wasnt an account number, sort code or customer number in Virgins 
records. Mr C said, its taken me three months to open an account. In the second call on 
12 November 2020, Mr C said, I want to open an account and its so difficult. So  he was 
saying it was taking a long time, referring back to his earlier application. In the calls, Mr C 
referred to several other service and complaint issues  but these arent the subject of this 
complaint. So  it seems clear to me that Mr Cs application for a new current account pre-
dates Virgins offer.
Mr C has said to us that he was advised by Virgin staff to re-apply and so he then started a 
new on-line application for a current account on 12 November 2020  and therefore, this 
qualified for the wine offer. And he says that the Virgin told him he would qualify for the offer 
and that he would be sent a code. We asked Virgin about this. They said that the account 
opened on 12 November 2020 was the completion of the application started on 5 November 
2020. They showed us the audit trail to prove this.  They told us there werent any further 
calls on 12 November 2020 (other than the ones weve listened to). Nor were there any calls 
between then and 30 November 2020. So  I cant see that there was a new application on 
12 November 2020.
Mr C had referred to another case which this service had looked at. He says this supports 
his complaint. Ive considered this also. It wasnt an ombudsman decision  but a view from 
one of our investigators. In it, we said You were initially having issues with opening your 
bank account with Virgin Money. I can see on 12 November 2020, your application was 
successful, and you were able to open your bank account with Virgin Money.  I dont think 
this statement does support Mr Cs complaint here - as it is simply saying that the application 
process was drawn out  and the account was then opened on 12 November 2020. So 
again, this indicates that Mr Cs application was started before that time.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman