DRN-3059370
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the decision of Covea Insurance plc to decline the business 
interruption insurance claim she made for losses suffered by her business as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs C operates a hair and beauty business and held an industry specific commercial 
insurance underwritten by Covea. The policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, 
including business interruption. Mrs C has been represented on this complaint, but for the 
sake of simplicity, I have just referred to her and Covea  as they are the parties to the 
complaint.
In March 2020, Mrs C was forced to close her business as result of the government-imposed 
restrictions introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19. Mrs C contacted Covea, but it 
informed her a claim for losses in the circumstances would not be covered by her policy. 
Covea said that the core business interruption cover responded to situations where the 
interruption had been caused by damage to property and this wasnt the case here. Covea 
also said there was an extension to this cover that related to disease, but that this was 
limited to a specific list of diseases that did not include COVID-19 and so did not respond in 
the circumstances. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this, and brought her complaint about it to this service. However, 
our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Covea had acted 
in line with the policy when saying there was no cover. As Mrs C remained unhappy, her 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mrs C and her business, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
I understand that Mrs C closed her business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of her business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover shes looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mrs C took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Mrs Cs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Mrs Cs business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mrs Cs claim. And I think 
Covea acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mrs Cs claim under this area of cover.
Mrs Cs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides 
cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing 
cover in the event of certain diseases.
The compulsory closure extension covers, in part:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises

The words in bold carry a particular meaning within the policy, and notifiable human 
infectious or contagious disease is defined as:
those diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 
1988, namely
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Legionellosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough, Yellow fever.
No other disease will be added to the above list without [Coveas] prior written 
consent
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mrs C with cover for the circumstances of her claim. This is because COVID-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Covea to include it in the 
policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Covea intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. 
Covea deliberately chose to define notifiable human infectious or contagious disease by 
reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Mrs C has.
Mrs Cs wording does refer to the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations 1988. 
These regulations were revoked by the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010. 
And it is this latter set of regulations that, in part, contains the list of current notifiable 
diseases. The list in the 2010 regulations has been updated to include COVID-19. So, I have 
considered whether the reference to the 1988 regulations in the policy wording could be 
reasonably interpreted as referring to the updated list that includes COVID-19. However, I 
dont think it can. I think the policy is quite clear that it only covers the diseases specifically 
listed, unless Covea agrees otherwise. Covea has not agreed to include COVID-19 on this 
list, so I dont think the policy covers the impact of this disease.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mrs C has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of notifiable human infectious or contagious disease 
in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover 
including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). Whilst the inclusion of SARS on 
the list would not mean that a claim for COVID-19 ought to be met  as the two are separate 
diseases  SARS did exist at the time the policy was drafted. So, Coveas omission of this 
disease is indicative of it wanting to limit the risk it was willing to cover. And I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
I note Mrs Cs representative has referred to the findings of the High Court in The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the 
FCA test case). And has indicated that cover might not require the discovery of a covered 
disease to be at the premises. But I disagree. The policy is clear that it only responds where 
there is such a discovery at the premises, and this leads to compulsory closure by a relevant 
authority. Whilst it may be true that a policy might respond in situations where it was both the 
discovery of a covered disease both on the premises and elsewhere, there would need to be 
a discovery on the premises. 
Regardless, the primary issue in this case is whether this extension provides cover in 
relation to COVID-19 and I do not consider it does. So, where a disease needs to be 
discovered is not relevant, given the disease in question is not covered.
Mrs Cs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. 
As cover was not provided under this area of Mrs Cs policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the 
claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Mrs Cs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mrs C, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman