DRN-2844645
The complaint
Mr W complains about the sale of his property by Santander UK Plc which he says was at an 
undervalue.
What happened
Mr W owned a property - an apartment - with an interest only mortgage with Santander. The 
mortgage was taken out in 2007 for eight years and so the term expired in June 2015. 
Because the service charge levy continued to grow, and he hadnt the means to pay off the 
mortgage, Mr W went into arrears with the service charge which was added to the mortgage.  
In order to pay it all off, Mr W tried to sell the property for £245,000. In 2018, there was a 
potential sale, but it fell through because of a high service charge. 
Mr W tried to sell the property again at a reduced price and then agreed a voluntary 
surrender of the property in July 2018 to Santander. The lender marketed the property for 
£210,000 from September 2018. But the property wasnt sold until August 2019 for 
£165,000. There wasnt enough to pay off the mortgage and left a shortfall of £42,983.31. Mr 
W only became aware of the sale when the new buyers occupied the property. Mr W was 
told by Santander that it would sell the property for fair value. Mr W says that the lender sat 
on it for several months and then sold it at an undervalue. This, and the lack of information 
from Santander has taken a toll on his health.
Our investigator sympathised with Mr W, but she felt that Santander had acted as the 
regulator would expect and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr W 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W finds himself in the unfortunate situation that he has sold his home but finds that he 
still owes the lender a substantial sum of money. Mr W took out a loan with Santander, the 
security for which was this apartment. If the security is sold and there is still amount due by 
Mr W that is called a mortgage shortfall which would unfortunately be due by Mr W. But Mr 
W says that Santander didnt get a fair market price for the property.
Mr W tried to sell the property between 2016 and 2018 but was unable to do so. It was 
valued by Mr Ws agent at £245,000 in 2016. In 2017, he reduced the sale price from 
£225,000 to £215,000. This didnt produce a sale so in 2018, Mr W reduced the price to 
£199,000. Mr W signed a voluntary surrender declaration in July 2018 and in September 
2018 the lender marketed the property for £210,000. But the property didnt sell, and 
Santander had the property revalued in January 2019 when it was valued at £185,000 and 
again in April 2019 when it was valued at £165,000. It was eventually sold at that price in 
August.
I know that Mr W feels that this was not a fair market price. There were clearly attractive 
features to the property  an apartment in a listed building in an affluent area. But Mr W 
himself identified an issue that would have put off potential purchasers namely the service 
charges which continued to grow and which he was unable to pay. Mr Ws evidence is that 
the property was valued for £245,000 in 2016. But that clearly wasnt the market value as 
no-one was willing to pay that and Mr W couldnt sell it for that price or indeed substantially 
less than that when he tried to sell it. In fact, for over two years he was unable to sell it which 
suggests to me that whatever price he was trying to sell it at was above what a buyer was 
prepared to pay. It seems that Santander eventually got a buyer. It did not immediately sell it 
but seems to have tested the market over a period, with advices from qualified surveyors 
and got the best price it could. Although this was not the outcome that Mr W wanted, Ive no 
evidence to support his view that Santander could have got a better price for his property.
There are a couple of other matters. Im satisfied from the documentation Ive seen that Mr 
W would have been aware that he would be responsible for any shortfall following sale. 
There appears to have been a short delay between Mr W giving up possession and 
Santander marketing the property. Santander has provided reasonable reasons for the delay 
but there is no evidence that any delay resulted in missing a potential sale of the property. It 
seems that Mr W wasnt kept informed about the sale of the property, but I would have 
thought that if Mr W wanted any information about it, he could have contacted Santander for 
any updates. Mr W had to pay for some repairs. The property remained his and he would be 
responsible for repairs. Mr W also asks why the property wasnt let out. But any tenant would 
require some security of tenure and that might prevent a sale which was the object of 
Santanders possession. So I cant fault Santander for not letting t out.
I am sorry that Mr W finds himself in the position hes in. But I cant say fairly that Santander 
has done anything wrong. This was a hard property to sell as Mr W would have known. Mr 
W is left with a shortfall after sale. Like our investigator I believe that Mr W should take 
advice from a debt charity on his present position and of course Santander should act fairly 
and reasonably should it seek to recover this debt. But for the above reasons I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman