Complaint
Mr D complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Gain Credit 
LLC, trading at the time as Lending Stream. Mr D says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to LS.
Background
We now know that Mr D took out 3 loans from LS between March and May 2013. Ive 
enclosed a summary of Mr Ds borrowing with LS, based on the information it provided to us. 
It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
Following our involvement and discussions with LS, it has offered to pay back all the interest 
and charges in relation to loan numbers 2 and 3. 
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and told Mr D that they thought the offer in 
relation to loans 2 and 3 was fair. But Mr D doesnt agree with what they said. He asked for it 
to come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Ds 
complaint.
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship for example, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the 
fact that LS should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
DRN-1902181the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Ds complaint.
LS told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to Mr 
D. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history to him 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LS should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, LS should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
I think the financial checks which LS most likely carried out in this case would have been 
quite basic ones. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending 
relationship, they also appear to have been proportionate for loan number 1. I think the 
levels of likely checking, together with the income and expenditure details provided by Mr D 
himself, would have made this particular loan appear affordable for him. 
I accept that Mr D could have already been experiencing challenges in managing his money 
at that point, but I havent been shown anything that demonstrates he wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably pay for loan number 1. 
So I think it was reasonable in this case for LS to have relied on the information it most likely 
had at the time to decide whether to lend to Mr D and this was provided by Mr D himself. Im 
afraid that means Im not upholding the complaint about loan number 1. And for loans 2 and 
3, I think LSs offer is a reasonable one. 
I should stress that Mr D will still have to pay off any of the principle amounts (or 
outstanding parts thereof) of all the loans he had with LS. This is because the offer only 
covers all the charges and interest  for loans 2 and 3. Mr D has had the benefit of the actual 
loan amounts in the first place and so if some amounts remain outstanding on the loans, its 
right he pays that money back.
Putting things right  what LS needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 1 and 3* and treat any 
payments Mr D made towards these as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ds loans 1 and 3 account(s) as Ive directed results in him effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then LS should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
if reworking Mr Ds loans 1 and 3 account(s) leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then LS can use the total refund for other loans to offset this. And if there is still 
an outstanding capital balance then I would remind it that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D for 
the remaining capital
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3;
if the debts in relation to unpaid loans have been sold on then LS should buy these 
back or otherwise take action to ensure the above is complied with. HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
*I understand loans 1 and 3 havent been fully repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint about loan number 1. I dont 
direct Gain Credit LLC to pay Mr D any compensation in respect of this. I think the offer in 
respect of loans 2 and 3 is a reasonable one and Gain Credit LLC should take the action 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Appendix
Loan Date taken Date repaid AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 05/03/2013 outstanding* £315 £157.50
2 22/03/2013 28/03/2013 £265 £271.10
3 03/05/2013 outstanding* £435 £337.20
*Sold debt to another company
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman