DRN-1957500
The complaint
Mr D says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit 
card in 1998. The policy was sold to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) trading as 
Barclaycard.
What happened
The PPI was added to Mr Ds account at the same time as he took out his Barclaycard, at a 
meeting with the bank.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the grounds that Mr D wasnt 
properly advised of the PPIs exclusions and restrictions regarding claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMCs). If he had been, the adjudicator felt Mr D wouldnt have taken it 
because the terms meant hed have been unable to claim for his pre-existing asthma.
Barclays didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ds complaint in May 2020 saying that I was minded 
not to uphold it. Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr Ds representative pointed 
out, that whilst it was unlikely to make a difference, from the information it had seen the 
waiting period was 14 days rather than 30 before the policy would pay out. Further, Mr D 
couldnt recall this being a face to face sale of PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. My reasons are generally the same as set 
out in my provisional decision, which I will repeat here.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr D that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before it was added. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ds signed credit card application 
form and note that, under the section about PPI, theres a tick to indicate he wanted PPI.
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr D that he had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that he chose to take it. 
Mr D doesn't remember this being a face to face sale. I cant know if that was the case. But, 
looking at the paperwork used at the time of sale, it seems the type of application form used 
was one that Barclays used for branch sales. To be fair to Mr D I have proceeded on the 
basis that this was a branch sale and Barclays recommend the PPI to Mr D. That means it 
had the added responsibility to consider whether PPI was suitable for his needs. It also had 
to give him clear and fair information about the PPI, so that he could make an informed 
choice, and decide whether the policy was right for him and he wanted to buy it.On the information form Mr D completed and sent back to Barclays in August 2019, to 
complain about the mis-sale of this policy, Barclays asked Mr D this question:
At the time you took out the PPI policy, did you have any health problems, pre-existing 
medical conditions or were either of you registered as disabled?
Mr D selected the no box in response to this question. He also said hed not discussed his 
medical condition at the time of sale.
In October 2019, Mr D told this service that he had a PEMC at the time of sale; that was 
asthma. He said he couldnt recall exactly when it was diagnosed, but it was before he took 
out PPI. He said he hadnt taken time off work for his condition, but had an annual check up 
and an inhaler to use if needed.
Mr D also said he had no savings, or sick pay through work.
Based on what it seems Mr D told Barclays at the time of sale about his health, I cant see 
that Barclays wouldve been in a position to advise him that he likely he wouldnt have been 
covered under the policy for his PEMC.
But that said, Barclays still had to provide Mr D with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that she could decide for himself if it was right for him and he 
wanted to buy it. I cant say exactly what was discussed between Mr D and Barclays at the 
time. But, it seems that Mr D may not have mentioned his PEMC.
Even if I accept that Barclays didnt give Mr D clear information about the main exclusions 
and limitations of the policy, I then need to go on and consider whether he has lost out as 
result, because he wouldve done something different if given clearer information. Here, I 
think it likely that Mr D wouldve still taken out the policy if given clearer information. I say 
this because Mr D had no other way of making his repayments and could potentially have 
claimed if hed been off sick with any condition that wasnt related to his PEMC. Ive also 
taken into consideration that Mr D appears not to have mentioned he had asthma, so I think 
this gives an indication as to the way he viewed his condition.
Also, he said he hadnt taken time off because of his asthma, so I dont think he wouldve 
thought hed have to take time off and claim on the policy because of it. The PPI had a 
waiting period. Barclays no longer has a copy of the terms and conditions that applied at the 
time of sale. Looking at a later set of terms and conditions, I can see that the policy holders 
disability needed to lead to time off work for 14 consecutive days or more before any benefit 
was payable. So, Mr Ds representative could be right about the relevant waiting period. But, 
as his representative anticipated, whether it was 14 or 30 days this doesnt change my view. 
So, overall, it doesnt look to me as if Mr D had any reason to think his condition was likely to 
lead to such a prolonged period off work given his past history of managing his asthma.
I think the policy otherwise appeared suitable for him, given he had no other way of making 
his repayments if he was out of work. The policy appeared affordable, he was eligible to take 
it out and he seemed to want the cover. I dont know what Mr D was told about the costs and 
benefits of the policy. But, given his circumstances, I think it likely he wouldve thought the 
cost worth it to him and I cant see that this wouldve put him off.
Taking all of this into account, I cant see that Mr D has lost out because of what Barclays 
may have done wrong.
  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman