DRN-3541421
The complaint
Ms W complains that she received poor customer service from Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) when trying to locate a refund from a third party.
 
What happened
Ms W was told by a third-party company that she would receive a refund of 7 months 
membership fees as a gesture of goodwill. It sent the refund using her previous Halifax debit 
card number, which was no longer active. When the funds didnt appear in her account,     
Ms W contacted Halifax. The call handler took her details and started the process of trying to 
locate the missing refund, which Ms W thought was £63.92. Ms W was told to call back if 
she had heard nothing in a few days. 
Ms W received a text a few days later which asked her to call Halifax. She feels that the call 
handler was rude during the call and that she was put on trial. When she asked to complain, 
the call handler spoke to his manager and afterwards, offered to refund the £63.92 as a 
gesture of goodwill, which Ms W accepted. 
Ms W then called Halifax later that day and raised a complaint about the call handler and 
how he had dealt with the situation. The member of staff apologized to Ms W for how she 
had been treated and offered to refund her telephone costs totaling £11 and a further £40 for 
any distress and inconvenience the matter had caused her. Ms W accepted the offer and 
was told she would receive a final response letter in the post. 
Around two weeks later, Ms W hadnt received the final response letter so called our service 
to raise a complaint. She said that she wanted an apology, further compensation and said 
she was unhappy that a dispute has to be raised when a refund is sent to an expired debit 
card number. She feels Halifax is the only financial institution that does this and it has made 
this change without telling people, and she has concerns this will happen to her or other 
people she knows in the future. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that there had been some confusion on 
Halifaxs part during the call that Ms W was unhappy with. And he felt a complaint could 
have been avoided if Halifax had understood the nature of the transaction or if better notes 
had been kept on file. So, he thought Ms W should receive an additional £100 
compensation. Halifax agreed with this bringing the total paid to Ms W to £64 for the refund, 
£11 for the call costs and £140 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What followed was a misunderstanding between the investigator and Ms W. The investigator 
thought that Ms G was accepting the additional compensation, whilst at the same time 
raising additional complaint points about the way in which Halifax processes refunds that are 
sent to expired debit card numbers, which she was unhappy with. However Ms W did not 
want to accept the additional £100 as a way to resolve her complaint and instead wanted 
further compensation as well as an answer to why Halifax do not return refunds using the 
account number and sort code, not just the expired debit card number. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the additional compensation that Halifax has agreed to pay is a fair 
was to resolve the complaint, and I dont think it needs to do more. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Ms Ws complaint is two-fold, the customer service she received whilst trying to receive the 
refund from the third party, and the way in which Halifax processes its refunds.
Ive firstly focused on the customer service she received. Having listened to the telephone 
calls Ms W had with Halifax, I agree that during the phone call that she had with the card 
disputes team, there was confusion on Halifaxs part. Had better notes been kept from her 
initial telephone call about the issue on 27 September 2021, I think a lot of the confusion 
could have been avoided. It also should have been clear that Ms W had received a text 
asking her to call because Halifax could not locate the missing refund using just the 
information she had provided in the initial call. But this wasnt clearly communicated to her 
which led to increasing tension between both parties during the telephone call on 27 
September. 
I recognize that during the phone call with the card disputes team, despite not having 
enough information to locate the missing refund, they did reimburse her with the rounded up 
£64 as a gesture of goodwill. So Ms W therefore hasnt lost out financially as a result of any 
miscommunication with Halifax. And I can see that when Ms W complained later that day 
about the customer service she received, she promptly received an apology, a refund of call 
costs and £40 compensation. Which I think was reasonable in the circumstances. Our 
investigator has then recommended the total compensation be increased to £140, which the 
business has accepted. And I think this is more than reasonable in the circumstances to 
compensate Ms W for any upset she was caused by the poor customer service. 
Ms W is also unhappy about the way in which Halifax processes refunds that have been sent 
to expired debit card numbers, as she feels the only way to receive them is to arrange a call 
with the card disputes team and this could lead to a lot of refunds not being received by the 
rightful recipients. 
Firstly, Id like to clarify that it appears the only reason Ms W was asked to speak with the 
card disputes team is because they could not immediately locate her payment using the 
information she originally gave. Had Halifax received the information needed, its likely they 
could have located and forwarded the funds to her account without any further contact. 
Secondly, I am only able to consider each complaint on its individual merits. In this case, I 
think Halifax could have provided better customer service, but I think it has reimbursed Ms W 
with the missing funds and given compensation for her costs and any distress she was 
caused. While I understand Ms W may be worried that other people could face the same 
issue as her, my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
individual complaint. Its not for me to comment on how Halifax chooses to process its 
payments or about any wider implications of this.I understand Ms W has said she does not want the additional £100 compensation that has 
already been recommended by the investigator and paid into her account. We would not ask 
Halifax to take this back now it has already been paid, so Ms W may do with it as she 
pleases.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I agree with the investigators recommendation of an addition 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. And I dont think Bank of 
Scotland plc needs to do anything further to remedy the complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman