DRN-3232585
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
     
summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs P have said Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a mortgage in 1991.
Nationwide didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Mr and Mrs P had referred the complaint to us too late.
But Nationwide did offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mr and Mrs Ps PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr and Mrs P 
about the high level of commission and profit share theyd pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint about how this policy was sold. And they thought Nationwides payment was a fair 
way to resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. Mr and Mrs P asked for the case to be referred to the ombudsman. So the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Nationwide sent a final response letter to Mr and Mrs P in June 2015. It refers to the PPI 
policy, refers to Mr and Mrs P having raised issues about the policy and it says Nationwide 
doesnt agree the PPI policy was mis-sold. It gives Nationwides views on various matters, 
such as whether the cover was requested by Mr and Mrs P and the nature of the information 
given to them at the sale. So it appears the complaint Nationwide was responding to at the 
time was a complaint about the sale of the policy.
The six months Mr and Mrs P had to refer that complaint to us ran out in 2015  and they 
didnt refer it to us within that time period. Instead their representatives contacted us in 2019 
complaining about the sale of the policy again, having contacted Nationwide earlier in 2019.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives have said they cant verify that all matters they are now 
raising were addressed in the earlier complaint. But in my view Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
about the PPI sale is in substance the same complaint Nationwide responded to in 2015. So 
in my view it is a complaint Mr and Mrs P had six months from Nationwides 2015 letter to 
bring to us. As they came to us outside that time, the complaint was referred to us out of 
time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Ive considered all 
that has been said by and for Mr and Mrs P but Ive seen nothing to suggest exceptional 
circumstances apply here. For example, Ive seen nothing to suggest they couldnt have 
referred a complaint about the sale to us before the time to do so ran out in 2015 nor 
anything to suggest the delay between then and the approach to us in 2019 was due to an 
exceptional circumstance. So I dont think exceptional circumstances apply.
It follows that were unable to help Mr and Mrs P with their complaint about how the policy 
was sold  Im sorry that this may disappoint Mr and Mrs P.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs P about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr and Mrs P was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act, because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case; 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs P, 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipredress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified. Mr and Mrs Ps representatives have made a number of 
representations about this part of the complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs P should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr and Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive 
a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr and Mrs P in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not 
disclosing the high level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view, a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude they wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission, for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs P paid for their PPI policy - I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. I see that Nationwide sent a cheque for the redress to 
Mr and Mrs P in May 2019.So I consider Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. If 
Nationwide has already paid Mr and Mrs P compensation on this basis, I wouldnt consider it 
needs to do anything more.
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs P for their courtesy and patience throughout our consideration of 
their complaint.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about how their policy was sold, because it 
was referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits 
was because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs P an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman