DRN-2891832
The complaint
Miss B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined her claim against her travel 
insurance policy and didnt give her sufficient information about the start date of her policy at 
the outset. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss B was due to go on a trip with her mother and step father. 
The trip had intended departure and return dates of 2 April 2020 and 17 April 2020 
respectively. In January 2020, Miss B purchased an annual travel insurance policy from 
AXA via a comparison web site. The policy was to start on 1 April 2020. 
In February 2020, Miss Bs mother was injured and couldnt travel in April 2020. The trip 
was cancelled. Miss B made a claim against her policy for unrefunded trip costs. AXA 
declined the claim. It said that Miss Bs policy wasnt in force at the relevant time. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to provide Miss B 
with clear information about the policy at the point of sale and to handle claims promptly and 
fairly and not reject a claim unreasonably. I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for these reasons:
AXA has provided a screen shot of the information it says Miss B would have seen 
when she bought the policy via a comparison website. It says that during the sales 
process, Miss B would have been asked when she wanted cover to start and told that 
shed be covered for cancellation from the date she chose. Miss B says that the 
warning could have been added after she bought her policy and asked for proof that 
it was there at the relevant time. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the 
information about the start date of the policy was present when Miss B bought her 
policy. But thats not the only information Miss B had about this matter.  
In addition, AXA sent Miss B a validation certificate and the policy document. The 
certificate states the cover period is 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021. I think that was 
clear. And the policy defines Period of insurance as the period of 12 months for 
which we have accepted the premium as stated in the schedule[] Cancellation 
cover will be operative from the date stated in the schedule or the time of booking 
any trip (whichever is the later date) . 
I think that AXA gave Miss B clear information about the policy start date, so that she 
could make her own decision about whether the policy was right for her. 
The event which led to the cancellation of Miss Bs trip was her mothers injury. The 
injury and the subsequent cancellation of the trip occurred before the start date of 
Miss Bs policy. I dont think that AXA acted unfairly in declining Miss Bs claim as the 
policy wasnt in force when the cancellation of the trip occurred.
Miss B says that she wouldnt have been able to go on the trip in any event, due to 
covid-19. I dont think that alters the outcome here. Im looking at AXAs response to 
the claim Miss B made, not a claim she might have made in different circumstances. 
It remains the case that Miss Bs policy wasnt in force when the trip was cancelled. I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable in this case to direct AXA to deal with a 
claim arising from events that occurred before the start date of the policy.   
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman