DRN-2595350
The complaint
Miss B has complained to Only Pets Cover Limited (trading as Scratch & Patch) about the 
increase in premium for her pet insurance policy.    
What happened
In 2019 Miss B took out lifetime pet insurance through Scratch and Patch to cover her dog. 
At renewal last year she found there was a significant increase in her renewal premium and 
complained as she didnt think this was fair. 
Our investigator said Scratch and Patch werent the insurers of Miss Bs policy and any 
complaint about the amount charged for the policy would need to be directed to the insurers. 
However, Scratch and Patch were responsible for providing Miss B with information about 
the policy when she took it out. She didnt think it had made clear to her the extent to which 
her premium might increase in future years and recommended it pay Miss B £250 to reflect 
the distress she was caused when that did happen. 
Scratch and Patch said it had provided Miss B with an adequate explanation of how a 
lifetime pet insurance policy works and drew attention to the information it had provided her 
with. It thought shed have received similar information if shed approached an alternative 
provider. Miss B remained concerned about the ongoing affordability of her policy. So I need 
to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss B is concerned about the longer term affordability of her policy and what 
shes been charged for this. I understand why that is. But her premiums arent set by Scratch 
and Patch but by her insurer. So, as our investigator said, shell need to pursue those 
concerns with it. 
What Scratch and Patch are responsible for is providing information about the policy to 
Miss B. And the relevant rules (the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  ICOBS) 
say it needed to take reasonable steps to provide a customer with:
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that 
the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed. 
That information should be clear, fair and not misleading. And it would include drawing the 
customers attention to, and highlighting the main provisions of, the policy and the significant 
limitations and exclusions.
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a greater 
level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term cost and 
cover for customers with these policies, as the cost doesnt stay the same for the life of the 
policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and the cost of 
veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to claims, changes in 
insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high the 
cost could be.
And I think Scratch and Patch should have explained the potential long term cost 
implications of the policy to Miss B. I appreciate it wouldnt have been able to tell her exactly 
what the cost of her policy would be in future years. But its in the nature of these policies 
that someone would expect to keep it for the lifetime of their pet. So Miss B did need to 
understand that the cost of the policy might increase significantly over that period and to the 
extent it could become unaffordable for her. 
Scratch and Patch think the information it provided Miss B made this clear but I dont agree. I 
can see the policy document does say: 
each year we may change any details of your policy and premium or not offer renewal, in 
doing this will take into account the information we have about your policy, your pets 
medical history, claims made and expected future treatment and claims costs. In general 
premiums increase with the age of your pet and if claims have been made
But thats on page eight of a 25 page document. I think this is significant information that 
should have been drawn to her attention. And in any case I dont think that wording makes 
clear the extent to which the cost of the policy might increase in future years. 
Scratch and Patch has also drawn attention to information on its website in the section what 
is lifetime pet insurance. But that doesnt make any reference to the ongoing cost of the 
policy. Its also referenced what the renewal documentation says. However, this reflects the 
information contained in the policy terms. Ive already explained why I dont think that made 
the position on the ongoing cost of the policy clear (and it wouldnt in any case have been 
something available to Miss B when she took the policy out in 2019). 
I note what Scratch and Patch has said about the information provided by other insurers. But 
the question I need to consider is whether it did enough to provide Miss B with clear 
information about the potential for the cost of this policy to significantly increase. For the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think it did. 
Ive gone on to think about how thats affected Miss B and whether shed have acted 
differently if shed been given clear information. Miss B took out pet insurance, so she clearly 
wanted some type of cover for her pet. And, as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she 
had some interest in the greater level of cover it provided. In fact shes told us she chose to 
pay a premium for this as she wanted to know her dog would always be covered whatever 
happened to him. 
So I think its likely Miss B would still have gone ahead with a lifetime policy, even if shed 
known the premium could increase significantly in the future And while its possible better 
information about this might have led Miss B to look for cover with an alternative provider I 
think its unlikely that would have resulted in her paying a significantly lower amount as 
providers that offer this type of insurance tend to operate in a similar way.But I do think the premium increase would have come as a shock to Miss B when she 
received her renewal documentation, given it hadnt been made clear to her this might 
happen. She might reasonably have thought there would be some increase given shed 
made a claim on the policy but I think the extent of that increase would have been 
unexpected and would have caused her distress. I think the £250 our investigator 
recommended is the right amount to recognise the impact of that on her. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Only Pets Cover Limited will need to pay Miss B £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman