DRN-2262466
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has declined his terminal illness 
claim on his term assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out his term assurance policy in 2012 for a term of twenty years. 
Mr M was sadly diagnosed with multiple myeloma in November 2017. He was advised the 
cancer was incurable. So, he called Aviva to make a claim in February 2018. 
Aviva spoke with Mr M on the phone but said it was too early to reach a conclusion on his 
prognosis. It said as Mr M was due to receive stem cell treatment this meant his prognosis 
was likely to be more than twelve months, so he didnt meet the policy criteria. 
Mr M contacted Aviva again in March 2020 to complain that his claim hadnt been 
considered. He said he met the terminal illness definition when he was first diagnosed, and if 
it wasnt for the treatment, he wouldnt have lived longer than twelve months. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He accepted Mr M had 
received a terminal diagnosis. But he didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably or outside of 
its terms and conditions by saying Mr Ms prognosis wasnt less than twelve months because 
of the treatment he was receiving. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He felt his prognosis was less than 
twelve months without treatment when he was first diagnosed. So, he said he met the policy 
definition when he was diagnosed. He felt it wasnt fair for Aviva to say that the later 
treatment he received meant he no longer met the terminal illness definition because this 
isnt mentioned in the terms and conditions. He added that he was unhappy Aviva didnt 
send any letters to confirm its decision to reject his claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr M, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him and his family. 
While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say Aviva has treated him unfairly. Ill explain 
why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Avivas assessment of the claim 
Mr Ms policy says that for a terminal illness claim to be paid, the following definition must be 
met in full:
3. TERMINAL ILLNESS BENEFIT
(a) Terminal Illness Benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen months 
prior to the End Date, the Life Insured is diagnosed as suffering from an advanced or 
rapidly progressing and incurable condition (the "Terminal Illness") such that the life 
expectancy of the Life Insured is no greater than 12 months from the date the 
condition is notified to us by the Planholder. In determining that diagnosis, we will 
consider the views of the Life Insured's medical adviser; consult the views of our 
medical adviser; and take the typical life expectancy for someone diagnosed with the 
Terminal Illness into account.
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr M met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether Aviva 
assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was 
presented with. And whether  on balance  Mr Ms prognosis was more likely than not less 
than twelve months when he made the claim. Having carefully considered all the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that Aviva has considered the claim fairly. 
Mr M has said without treatment his life expectancy would be less than twelve months. His 
consultant has confirmed this, but his consultant has also confirmed that they aimed to treat 
him in September 2018. When he spoke to Aviva in February and June 2018, Mr M said he 
was due to receive treatment and hadnt received a prognosis of less than twelve months. 
But the policy definition above says he must have been told this by his medical adviser when 
he makes the claim.  
I think its worth mentioning here that the purpose of terminal illness benefit is to bring 
forward a life insurance benefit payable within the last twelve months of Mr Ms life. Aviva 
accepted that Mr M has been diagnosed with an incurable disease. But it said the fact he 
was due to receive treatment which could potentially prolong his life, meant he hadnt met 
the policy definition. 
I understand that Mr Ms prognosis without treatment was less than twelve months. But I 
dont believe its unreasonable for Aviva to consider whether there is any treatment available 
which can potentially increase that prognosis, even if this isnt explicitly stated in the policy. 
This is a common term in these types of policies, and Aviva must make sure it treats all its 
customers fairly when it considers terminal illness claims. And Im satisfied that taking into 
account potential treatments forms the basis of a prognosis by both Mr Ms and Avivas 
medical advisors. 
Ive noted that Aviva is happy to reassess the claim in the future if Mr Ms prognosis 
changes.  
How the claim was handledMr M has said he hasnt received any documentation from Aviva to explain its decision when 
he first made the claim. I note that when Mr M called Aviva, he said that he was already 
receiving treatment. Aviva says it told Mr M on this call that he didnt meet the policy 
definition, so no claim was investigated. 
When Mr M called Aviva back in June 2018 his claim was passed to a claims assessor. But 
Mr M was told he had claimed too early as he hadnt received a prognosis of less than 
twelve months from his consultant. Avivas call notes say Mr M agreed to go back and speak 
to his consultant. Mr M called back in July 2018 and he was again told Aviva would need to 
see a prognosis of less than twelve months from Mr Ms consultant. Because Aviva didnt 
hear back from Mr M it closed the claim in September 2018. 
After reviewing this information, Im satisfied Mr M was told by Aviva what information he 
needed to provide for a claim to be assessed further. And I note one of the consultant letters 
 dated September 2018  says Mr Ms prognosis might be less than twelve months without 
the treatment he was having or if it failed. But this information wasnt supplied to Aviva. And 
because Aviva didnt hear back from him, it closed the claim because it assumed the 
treatment was successful. So, I dont think it treated him unfairly here. 
So, while I have every sympathy for Mr Ms situation, I cant say Aviva unfairly declined the 
claim. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman