DRN-4224410
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his current account. He took a train from 
London to France. He then had a flight booked from France, back to London. He was then 
due to fly to South Africa.
His flight from France to London was delayed by just over 2 hours. However, as a result of 
this delay, he missed his connecting flight to South Africa. The flight itinerary shows that 
Mr R had been due to leave London at 2050 on 22 December 2022. However, due to 
missing the connecting flight he was booked onto a flight on 23 December 2022 at 1820. So, 
there was a delay of nearly 24 hours due to Mr R missing the connecting flight.
Mr R claimed on his travel insurance policy. The claim was declined because Mr Rs first 
flight, from France to London, was delayed by less than four hours. So, AWP said it wasnt 
covered by the policy terms. Mr R made a complaint but AWP maintained their decision to 
decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr R made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
AWP had declined the claim in line with the policy terms. Mr R didnt agree and highlighted 
the policy definition of the word trip. 
In June 2023 I issued my provisional decision. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy covers travel delay due to travel carrier delay. The policy terms and 
conditions say there is cover for:
1. Your lost pre-paid trip expenses and additional expenses you incur 
while and where you are delayed for meals, accommodation, 
communication and transportation, subject to a limit for the first 
complete 4 hours and a limit for each complete hour thereafter, as 
shown in the Benefits Summary, as follows
If you do not provide receipts or do not incur expenses, the No 
receipts daily limit applies.
The benefit summary sets out the daily limit. It says:
If you do not have receipts or have not incurred expenses - £350 per 
beneficiary (£70 limit for the first complete 4 hours and £70 limit for each 
complete hour after this).
Trip is defined as:
Your travel originally scheduled to begin from your primary residence on your 
departure date and ending on your return date to, within and/or from a 
location:
At least 100 kilometres away from your primary residence; or
Abroad; or
Outside your city/town of residence, provided that your travel includes 
an overnight stay.
Was it fair for AWP to decline the claim?
Im intending to uphold this complaint because:
I dont think the policy terms make it clear that the policy only covers delays at 
the point of initial departure. Thats not referred to in the policy term relating to 
travel delay. Its also not explained or specified within the policy definition of 
trip.
Mr R was delayed by nearly 24 hours as he missed his connecting flight from 
London. He was delayed, mid-journey, for over four hours. So, based on the 
policy terms, I dont think theres any reason why he cant benefit from the 
delay caused by missing his connecting flight.
Mr R has cover under the policy for travel delay and its accepted the delay 
was for a covered reason. So, in any event, I also think it would be fair and 
reasonable to cover the delay in the circumstances of this case.
If AWP wanted to exclude connecting flights from cover, Id expect to see an 
exclusion or policy term explaining this. Its common for policyholders to use 
connecting flights so any restrictions on cover should be clear and prominent 
in the policy terms. Thats because its a significant limitation on cover which 
ought to be highlighted. In the circumstances of this case I dont think the 
policy terms and conditions do make this limitation clear.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct AWP to put things right by paying Mr R:
£350 for the travel delay benefit
8% simple interest on that amount from the date the claim was declined until 
the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr R accepted my provisional decision. AWP said it had declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. They said the delay was in France and didnt meet the minimum 
required delay. They said they appreciated these facts were included in my initial decision and have no further comments to add.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think the policy terms do specifically exclude 
the circumstances of Mr Rs claim. And, in any event, I dont think the policy terms make it 
clear that the policy only covers delays at the point of initial departure. Taking into account 
all of the circumstances of this case I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
AWP needs to put things right by paying Mr R:
£350 for the travel delay benefit
8% simple interest on that amount from the date the claim was declined until 
the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about AWP P&C SA and direct them to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman