DRN-1755473
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont honour a payment it 
agreed to make in relation to a mortgage account. Halifax has said that this was offered in 
error.
What happened
Mrs F has an interest only mortgage account with Halifax. This account is held in joint names 
with her former partner, Mr S. Only Mrs F lives in the mortgaged property. This complaint is 
brought by Mrs F. But Mr S is aware of it having been made. 
The mortgage had a fixed rate of interest, which began in 2017. This was due to end in July 
2019 at which point the interest rate would revert to Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR).
In June 2019 Mrs F contacted Halifax to discuss securing a new fixed rate. During the initial 
discussion she was given incorrect information about the rates available  specifically she 
was quoted rates that the mortgage account did not qualify for based on the amount of 
borrowing compared to the value of the property - the loan to value (LTV) ratio.
Halifax then quoted the rates that the account did qualify for. Mrs F was unhappy with these 
rates as she felt the value of the property was higher than Halifax had said. A revaluation 
was instructed. At first Halifax said the value of the property was unchanged. Mrs F 
appealed and complained to Halifax about how things had been handled to that point. 
Halifax agreed to instruct another valuation, free of charge.
By this point the existing interest rate deal on the mortgage was close to expiring. When 
Mrs F spoke to Halifax about the valuation and her concerns it said that it would pay the 
difference between the repayments due under the existing fixed rate and those that would 
become due when that rate expired, and the account moved onto the SVR  which equated 
to £426.72 per month. It said it would do this while the complaint about the valuation was 
being looked into. Halifax paid this for one month.
Another valuation was carried out. After this Halifax agreed that the property value was 
higher than it had initially thought. This meant the LTV was lower and it could offer improved 
interest rates.
Mrs F applied for one of the interest rates that the mortgage account was now eligible for. 
The application was unsuccessful as Mr S initially didnt agree to the rate switch. As a result, 
the account remained on the SVR. This was in August 2019. I understand a new interest 
rate has since been agreed between all parties.
After the initial application was unsuccessful, Halifax responded to the complaint made by 
Mrs F. It agreed it had provided incorrect information about the rates available when Mrs F 
had first contacted it. It felt it had followed its correct procedure in terms of the valuation it 
had initially used but accepted the situation had changed after a further valuation had been 
agreed so apologised for the upset caused.
Turning to the valuation itself, Halifax said if it had carried out a similar re-valuation in 2017, 
when the previous interest rate had been agreed, it thought it was likely it wouldve been 
able to offer a better interest rate at that time. To address this, it offered to re-work the 
account and retrospectively apply this lower interest rate and refund any overpayments 
made as a result. 
It said however that it should not have offered to pay the difference between the repayments 
due under the expired fixed interest rate and the SVR  the £426.72 it had previously paid. 
Halifax said this was because, even without the valuation issue, there was no guarantee that 
the application wouldve succeeded and the SVR was the correct contractual rate. As it had 
already paid this amount in error, Halifax said it intended to deduct this amount from the 
refund of overpayments it intended to make.
Halifax accepted that Mrs F had been given incorrect information on a number of occasions 
and had been made to wait on the phone for extended periods. To address the upset and 
inconvenience caused by everything that had happened, it offered to pay her a further £550.
Mrs F asked our service to consider her complaint. She said she was largely satisfied with 
how things had been dealt with, but she didnt think it was fair that Halifax intended to go 
back on paying an amount that was previously agreed.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Having done so she thought Halifax had 
dealt with the complaint reasonably. She felt it wasnt unfair of Halifax to take back the 
payment made to help Mrs F with the difference in interest rates because this had been 
done in error. And it wouldnt be reasonable to require Halifax to honour a payment that 
shouldnt have happened. She did think itd be reasonable for Halifax to make a payment in 
respect of the upset caused by this. But she noted that some of the £550 already offered 
was intended to address this  and she felt overall that offer was reasonable.
Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators opinion as she felt Halifax should honour what it 
had promised to do. As Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my summary of the complaint, Mrs F has indicated previously that she feels 
her complaint has been largely addressed and resolved. I understand she remains unhappy 
with the decision by Halifax to deduct an amount it previously paid to her from the amount it 
has now offered to pay to resolve matters. For completeness Ive looked at everything again 
to decide if I think what Halifax has proposed to resolve the complaint is fair.
When Mrs F contacted Halifax to ask about the interest rates available, she was unhappy 
with the valuation of the property as she felt this was incorrect. Halifax has explained that 
this initial valuation was not based on a physical inspection but rather on its analysis of 
market data. In the circumstances I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably by relying on this 
initially.
When Mrs F indicated she was unhappy with this, Halifax arranged for a physical valuation 
to take place, free of charge. It instructed an independent valuer to carry this out. As I 
understand the valuer didnt enter the property during this first review and instead carried out 
a drive-by valuation. When they did so they didnt think the initial market price used by 
Halifax was wrong. Mrs F again disagreed with this. But I dont think Halifax was wrong to 
have relied on the opinion of the valuer  who was the suitably qualified expert in the situation. So again, I dont think Halifax had made an error at that stage.
As Mrs F was still dissatisfied, Halifax arranged for a further valuation, including an internal 
inspection. I can see from the notes Ive been provided of the conversations around this that 
there was initially some debate over which party would pay for this. In the end, Halifax 
covered the cost of this further inspection. 
This further valuation then indicated that Mrs F was correct and that the value of the property 
was higher than Halifax had initially assumed. When this new information - provided by the 
independent valuer - was received, Halifax agreed that the mortgage account was eligible for 
improved interest rates. Which I think was reasonable. It acted on the updated information 
appropriately when it became available.
I know Mrs F felt strongly about this from the outset that the figure being used was incorrect. 
But I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably. It based its decision on the information 
available to it at the time  which I think it was fairly entitled to. It instructed, and covered the 
cost of, two further valuations due to Mrs Fs objections  which I think was more than fair. 
And it appointed a suitably qualified independent party to carry these out. It relied on the 
information provided by the independent third-party valuer  which again I think it was 
reasonably entitled to. And then updated its position when the third-party advice was 
revised. So overall, I think Halifax acted reasonably in respect of the valuation of the 
property.
As part of its response to the complaint, after the increased valuation was received, Halifax 
reviewed whether the rate applied to the mortgage in 2017 would likely have been different 
based on this information. It concluded it would have been. It is difficult to be certain what 
the valuation in 2017 wouldve been after the fact as there are a number of variables that 
affect market values. But overall, I think it was fair of Halifax to conclude this and give the 
benefit of the doubt.
To address this, Halifax offered to retrospectively apply a better interest rate  which it 
thought would likely have been applied if a re-valuation had happened in 2017  recalculate 
what wouldve been paid had this been in place and refund any overpayments made. And I 
think this was fair and reasonable as it put the account back in the position it otherwise 
would likely have been in.
So, taking everything into account I think what Halifax has done to address Mrs Fs concerns 
about the valuation is fair.
Once the issue with the valuations was resolved, an application was made to transfer the 
mortgage to a new rate of interest. But Halifax declined the application as Mr S didnt initially 
agree to the change to the mortgage. Ive thought about whether Halifax acted reasonably in 
doing so.
The mortgage is held jointly between Mrs F and Mr S  so they are jointly responsible for it. 
Where there is a dispute between the parties to an account, I dont think it is unreasonable 
for Halifax to require them to agree on any significant changes to it.The new fixed interest rate wouldve meant that the repayments to the mortgage, which as I 
understand it Mrs F is responsible for, wouldve been lower than when the SVR was applied. 
So, I can understand why she wanted the new rate to be applied. But a common feature of a 
fixed interest rate is that, for the period the interest is fixed, charges apply in the event that 
the mortgage is repaid in full early  known as early repayment charges (ERC). So, in the 
event that the mortgage needed to be repaid  possibly as a result of any dispute between 
the parties  the cost of doing so would be higher. And again, both parties are jointly liable to 
repay the borrowing, so would be jointly liable for this increased cost. So as one of the 
parties to the mortgage didnt agree to the change which couldve impacted them too, 
suggesting a dispute, I dont think Halifax acted incorrectly by declining to apply the new 
rate.
Ive thought about whether Halifax couldve done anything more  whether for example there 
was an alternate interest rate it couldve offered, that wouldnt have come with a potential 
penalty. But having reviewed independent information around the rates it was offering to 
customers at the time, it appears that all of the rates better than the SVR offered at that time 
included the requirement to pay an ERC if repaid early. And the majority also included 
substantial upfront application fees. So, it doesnt seem there were any suitable alternatives 
that couldve been proposed.
Taking all of this into account I dont think Halifax acted unfairly by declining the application 
for a new rate in August 2019.
Turning to the service provided by Halifax during this application, it has acknowledged that 
there were mistakes made. When Mrs F first contacted it in 2019 to discuss applying for a 
new interest rate deal in relation to the mortgage Halifax initially quoted incorrect interest 
rates that the account wasnt eligible for. It has agreed that this wouldve been upsetting for 
Mrs F. It also acknowledges that Mrs F had to call it on a number of occasions about the 
valuation  which wouldve been inconvenient. And it says it raised Mrs Fs expectations 
about the likely success of the application, which it again acknowledges wouldve caused 
upset as it was eventually unsuccessful. 
The main issue regarding the service provided that remains in dispute  and as I previously 
mentioned I understand is in fact the main outstanding issue in the complaint as a whole  is 
about Halifaxs initial offer to contribute towards the mortgage repayments while the 
complaint about the valuation was being dealt with.
It isnt in dispute that Halifax did say to Mrs F that it would meet the difference in cost of the 
mortgage repayments between those due under the fixed rate that was expiring in July 2019 
and those due under the SVR, while the complaint about the valuation was being resolved. 
And it paid her £426.72  the repayment difference for one month.
Halifax now says it shouldnt have offered this, so has deducted it from the redress offered, 
in order to reclaim it, which Mrs F thinks is unfair.
The fixed interest rate on the mortgage was expiring in July 2019. After that, with no new 
rate in place, the contractual interest rate wouldve been the SVR. And the monthly 
repayments increased to reflect this. Halifax was not wrong to apply the SVR or change the 
level of repayment to reflect this. This increased amount was the new contractual monthly 
repayment required under the mortgage which Mrs F, and Mr S, were always liable to pay. 
So, Im satisfied that Mrs F, and Mr S, would not have been contractually entitled to only pay 
the amount due under the previous fixed rate  even with a complaint ongoing. Halifax has said its offer to meet the difference was made in error. It says this is because 
there was no guarantee the application for a new rate wouldve been successful  so the 
account could always have ended up on the SVR. I agree there was no guarantee, even 
without the complaint about valuations, that an application for a new interest rate deal 
wouldve been successful as there were other factors involved. This has been proven by the 
application not proceeding even when the valuation issue was resolved. And Im satisfied 
that the offer Halifax made was likely done in error. I dont think there is any situation under 
which Halifax would be required to make this concession  particularly bearing in mind what 
Ive said about the increased contractual repayments always being what Mrs F, and Mr S, 
were liable to pay. And I think it is unlikely that this is a concession it would usually make as 
a gesture of goodwill.
So, as Im satisfied it did make an error in offering to meet the difference, and paying an 
amount to reflect this, what I have to decide is whether it is fair that it ask for this back.
Mrs F doesnt think it is fair that it be claimed back. But I equally dont think it would be fair to 
Halifax for it to have to honour something it has done in error. Where an error has been 
made and something has happened that shouldnt have, I dont think it would be fair to 
require a business to honour that  as it isnt something that Mrs F was entitled to. And I 
have to be fair to all parties. So, in the circumstances, as I think this amount was paid in 
error, I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably by claiming this back.
I do think though this is another example of this matter being handled poorly. And this error 
has raised Mrs Fs expectations that she was entitled to this amount. So, when she found 
out she wasnt I dont doubt that this was upsetting. And I think Halifax should pay some 
compensation for the upset this error caused.
Halifax has previously offered £550 for the upset caused by its handling of this matter as a 
whole  including incorrectly crediting an amount to Mrs F and later claiming it back. As Ive 
mentioned there have been a number of errors by Halifax relating to the service provided  
incorrect information being provided and Mrs F needing to spend a significant amount of 
time contacting it. I think the service provided overall, could in my view have been a lot 
better. And I think how this was handled is likely to have caused Mrs F a lot of unnecessary 
trouble and upset. But taking everything into account, I think the £550 already offered by 
Halifax is a fair way to address these errors. So, I dont think it needs to do more.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint as I think Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax has already made a fair offer. 
To resolve things, if it hasnt already done so, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should 
refund the overpayment it has calculated. I think it can deduct the £426.72 it paid in error 
from this amount. And it should pay £550 for the upset caused  as it has previously agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman