DRN-3272875
The complaint
Mr C complains about a decision by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclaycard) to suspend his card for being in persistent debt.
What happened
Mr C has an account with Barclaycard that, before suspension, was maintained close its the 
credit limit. Barclaycard identified Mr Cs credit card account as being in a state of persistent 
debt, and so issued letters to him advising of the steps he needed to take to ensure that the 
account was brought out of persistent debt. In summary:
In October 2019 Barclaycard wrote to Mr C to inform him hed paid more in interest 
charges and fees over the previous 18 months which meant he was in persistent 
debt. It told him he would be required to keep up with a new recommended 
repayment amount for the account. And that it would review the account over the 
next 18 months and if he remained in persistent debt his account would be 
suspended.
In August 2020 it sent a further letter explaining he remained in persistent debt and 
again advised Mr C his monthly repayments would need to increase.
Finally, in May 2021 a letter was issued giving Mr C three options on the account as 
it had been in persistent debt for at least 36 months. Following this letter Mr Cs 
account was suspended on 24 May 2021 in accordance with persistent debt rules 
and Barclaycard procedures. 
Mr C complained to Barclaycard. Essentially, he didnt think his account met the definition of 
persistent debt and thought hed been paying down the card at a rate and speed faster than 
Barclaycard had requested in the post suspension payment plan.
Barclaycard told Mr C in the final response letter on 27 July 2021 it was unable to agree the 
account wasnt in persistent debt and the account had been suspended in line with internal 
policy and that it had to follow the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) regulations on this 
point. Barclaycard told Mr C it was unable to remove the suspension. And as it hadnt made 
any errors it was unable to uphold his complaint. 
Mr C brought the matter to us and told us in the year before the suspension hed paid 
substantially more than the total of interest, fees and charges. He thought he didnt meet the 
specific definition of persistent debt set out in the credit agreement which allowed 
Barclaycard to suspend the account. He said hed calculated the amount needed to pay off 
the account, taking into account interest, over five years and was paying that amount each 
month resulting in a consistent drop in his balance. And this was supported by the difference 
between the higher monthly amount hed been paying and the lesser amount Barclaycard 
offered him in the payment plan following the suspension of the card. He wanted 
Barclaycard to remove the suspension and acknowledge he didnt meet the definition of 
persistent debt as he thought under the contract, they had no right to either suspend the 
card or declare him in persistent debt.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Barclaycard had acted in line with 
both the account terms and conditions and the FCA rules on persistent debt set out in their 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). She thought the correspondence issued by 
Barclaycard made Mr C aware of the potential for the account to being suspended. So, she 
was satisfied Barclaycard had to place the persistent debt block on Mr Cs account in order 
to fulfil their duties set out by the FCA.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He thought 
Barclaycards approach in justifying the suspension of the card when hed been consistently 
paying it down based on a minor shortfall - which he said he wasnt informed of - was 
manifestly unfair. Mr C asked for the suspension to be lifted and removed from his records 
as he thought it never should have happened .He said Barclaycard had never provided him 
with a clear explanation that persistent debt meant what it was now saying it did. He told us 
he was disappointed that although the FCAs Banking Code of conduct clearly said  
evaluations relating to persistent debt are to be made on the basis of fairness and in the 
interests of the customer this hadnt happened in his case.
Mr C also thought the investigator had based her decision on a purely technical calculation, 
justifying the suspension of his card based on a small shortfall hed never been told about. 
And despite the clear evidence that the balance on his card was being paid down on a 
monthly basis. He thought the investigators assessment wasnt consistent with the standards 
laid out in CONC. Or with this services approach to a case namely to determine whether the 
business treated you fairly or not. Mr C hoped that more than a purely mathematical 
calculation would be made and instead take into account the standards this service said it 
applied and that which CONC says should be applied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C feels our investigator hasnt properly applied either the standards in 
CONC or taken our usual approach to his complaint. Ive looked at everything afresh before 
reaching an independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Mr C feels strongly about this. He was making regular payments to the 
account. So, I can appreciate why hed feel as though he was maintaining the account 
reasonably. But the FCA set rules (CONC 6.7.27) about persistent debt that companies 
such as Barclaycard have to follow. 
They define persistent debt as when a consumer has paid more in interest, fees and charges 
than theyve repaid towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 months. The FCA 
require businesses to assess whether a customer falls within this definition and when they 
identify thats the case the rules require a business to send letters to the consumer 18, 27 
and 36 months after the account falls into persistent debt. Here Barclaycard identified that 
Mr Cs account met, and continued to meet, the FCAs definition of persistent debt and I can 
see that they sent the letters they were obligated to send to Mr C after 18, 27 and 36 
months. Those letters explained, amongst other things, why they thought Mr C was in 
persistent debt and why increasing payments would reduce the cost of the borrowing. They 
also encouraged Mr C to get in touch so they could provide advice. 
The letters explained that the rules meant the account would eventually need to be 
suspended if insufficient action was taken. That was to enable Mr C to get on top of the debt. 
I think the letters Barclaycard sent complied with the FCA rules and that their assessment the account was in persistent debt was correct. 
Moreover Barclaycards contact records also show regular emails were sent to Mr C after the 
18 month point - at the same email address weve been using to correspond with him - 
reminding him that the account was in persistent debt and whether the payments he made 
were on or off track. All but one of those emails advised, although the minimum payment 
was made, it wasnt enough to remain on track to get the account out of persistent debt. So it 
was off track and a personalised payment amount was suggested. Barclaycard told us it had 
no response to those emails. In addition, in the ten months before the card was suspended, 
Barclaycards records show several emails were sent to Mr C advising his account was 
operating near to its credit limit. So, I dont agree Mr C wasnt informed of the shortfalls or 
that Barclaycard have acted unfairly here.
Overall, as the action was taken by Mr C wasnt enough, Barclaycard had to eventually 
suspend the account and offer repayment options. So, I dont think Barclaycard have done 
anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman