DRN-3661328
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Wise Pension Group Limited to 
switch his personal pension plans (PPPs) to a self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
Wise Pension Group is now InterestMe Financial Planning Limited (InterestMe). For ease, 
Ive referred to InterestMe throughout. 
What happened
Mr H sought advice from InterestMe about his two PPPs held with the same provider. At the 
time Mr H was 43. He was self employed and owned his own home subject to a mortgage. 
InterestMe sent Mr H a suitability report in September 2016 recommending that he switch his 
PPPs to a SIPP. The report said Mr Hs pension would be invested in the Growth Portfolio 
fund, managed by the Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) named, although not referred to 
as a DFM. A factsheet for the Growth Portfolio was attached. Mr H accepted the advice. The 
combined amount transferred from his PPPs and invested in the DFMs Growth Portfolio was 
£36,579.13. The DFM went into administration in 2017. 
In early 2019 Mr H, through his representative, complained to InterestMe. It didnt uphold the 
complaint and it was referred to us. Initially our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. But 
he revised his view following comments from Mr Hs representative. In summary the 
investigator said:
A SIPP wouldnt be the right choice for all pension investors. The investigator set out 
some examples of where a SIPP might be required. But Mr H wasnt an experienced 
investor, he had a very small pension pot and, although performance was the driving 
force behind his decision to switch, there was nothing to suggest he was comfortable 
with higher risk investments necessary to justify they higher charges of the new 
arrangement. 
Mr H had access to a DFM but that was costly and other lower cost alternatives 
couldve been recommended. 
Mr H did want to access his pension via drawdown but he was still over twenty years 
away from retirement. 
Mr Hs attitude to risk was noted in the suitability report as medium to higher. 
Although it was unclear how that had been arrived at, Mr H didnt question it at the 
time. But he didnt have prior investment experience and he was relying on his PPPs 
and his state pension in retirement. 
Higher projected returns, although not guaranteed, had been used to justify the costs 
of the more expensive solution. Mr H was given a comparison of his PPPs with 
InterestMes recommendation. The PPPs had projected values of £24,900 and 
£32,700 at age 65. And that, on a like-for-like basis, the switch to the recommended 
SIPP would result in lower projected values - £21,600 and £32,100 respectively and 
which reflected the higher charges. But InterestMe still recommended the switch, for 
increased performance and better product flexibility.
InterestMe provided a further projection of £124,000 in the suitability report for the 
new arrangement. It seems that was based on a five year annualised performance of 
11.44% a year for the recommended portfolio. That wouldve looked very attractive to 
Mr H. But the investigator didnt think that was a fair projection and when the DFM 
had had only been running the portfolio for a year. 
The investigator also noted the charge for the recommended arrangement:
Initial Advice & Implementation 3% (around £1,097)
Ongoing Servicing 0.75% pa (around £266 pa) 
Pension wrapper charge £114 pa
Investment management charge 0.84% pa
Dealing charge 0.42%
Mr Hs fund was small and the impact of charges was significant. Mr Hs objectives 
included looking at switching to a contract with lower costs. But the new arrangement 
was more expensive.
The suitability report identified that Mr H hadnt ever had a review and wanted to see 
how his pension was performing. Mr H wouldnt have switched to a SIPP but for 
InterestMes recommendation. That recommendation was unsuitable. Had InterestMe 
provided suitable advice, the investment with the DFM wouldnt have been possible. 
And Mr H didnt need the services of a DFM and the charges that were incurred. 
The investigator set out what InterestMe needed to do to put things right for Mr H. 
InterestMe asked for further time to respond to the investigators view. We extended the time 
more than once but we didnt get any further substantive comments although InterestMe said 
it didnt accept the investigators view and so the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman. InterestMe also referred to the bonds which I understand were included in the 
Growth Portfolio. InterestMe said it would set out its position on that aspect. But we havent 
received anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my conclusions and in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint, Ive taken into account, as Im required to do, relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms. PRIN 2 (A firm 
must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence); PRIN 6 (A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly); and PRIN 9 (A firm must take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any 
customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment) are in my view particularly relevant. 
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules also apply. COBS 2.1.1R requires a 
firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
clients and applies in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client. 
COBS 9 deals with suitability and sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability 
of investments and the information the firm must obtain about the clients knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; their financial situation; and their 
investment objectives. A firm must have a reasonable basis for believing that whats 
recommended meets the clients investment objectives; that the client is able financially to 
bear any related investment risks consistent with their  investment objectives; and that they 
have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in 
the transaction or in the management of their portfolio. 
Ive also considered the report published in 2009 (which is still relevant today) by the then 
regulator about pension switching. It identified four main areas where consumers may have lost out: switching to a more expensive pension without good reason; losing benefits in the 
switch without good reason; switching to a pension that didnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk and personal circumstances; switching into a pension where there was a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this wasnt explained, offered or put in place.
And, in 2013 and 2014, the regulator published alerts reminding advisers, when advising on 
pension switches, that the provision of suitable advice generally required consideration of 
the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments. The earlier alert was aimed at where investments in unregulated schemes were 
intended. But the further alert clarified that consideration of the overall transaction, that is, 
the vehicle or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such 
investments are regulated products) was required. 
Ive also borne in mind the general legal position including the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses. 
I agree with the investigator that the advice to switch to a SIPP wasnt suitable for Mr H. In 
reaching that conclusion on Ive borne in mind the 2009 report Ive mentioned above. I dont 
think the switch meant that Mr H lost benefits  such as guaranteed annuity rates. But he did 
incur a penalty of £1,392 on switching one of his PPPs. InterestMe said that wouldnt affect 
Mr H longer term, given the projected performance of the recommended investment solution. 
As Ive explained below, I dont agree with that. 
The new arrangement was more expensive than Mr Hs existing PPPs. The switch involved 
an initial advice and implementation fee and annual servicing, wrapper and investment 
management and dealing charges. Mr Hs fund was modest and the charges would have a 
significant impact. The suitability letter did say it was important for Mr H to be aware the 
recommended solution was more expensive than his current PPPs and alternatives such as 
stakeholder pensions but the returns justified the costs. As Ive said, I dont agree. 
The projected value at age 65 for the new arrangement  the DFMs Growth Portfolio  was 
£124,000 as opposed to £57,600 for the two PPPs. The suitability letter said, in bold, that the 
figure of £124,000 was based on the projected performance of the DFMs Balanced 
Portfolio, using a back-tested five year annualised performance of 11.4% pa. It was noted 
that the DFMs Growth Portfolio had a five year annualised performance of 12.28%. And 
that, as the DFM had been running the Portfolios for one year, the five year performance had 
been back-tested on a simulated basis. 
I think those figures were questionable to say the least. It was in my view inappropriate to 
use a projection based on extrapolated returns from very short term (one year) historical 
performance figures. Particularly when performance appeared to be the main driver for the 
switch. The report did say the estimated values werent guaranteed and the like-for-like 
comparisons showed the SIPP would return a lower value. But I think the projection was 
likely to mislead Mr H. He was an inexperienced investor. I think hed have found the 
estimated values for the new arrangement very attractive. I dont think he was given a 
realistic picture of how the SIPP would likely perform and the returns which would likely be 
achieved. The switch was recommended on the basis that performance would be improved. 
But I dont see that was based on reasonable expectations.  
The new arrangement offered more flexibility  for example, flexi access drawdown. But, 
even if that might be useful in the future, at the time Mr H was more than twenty years away 
from his intended retirement date. So, in the interim, hed be paying for a feature he didnt 
need and couldnt use. The suitability report recorded that Mr Hs attitude to risk was medium to high. Im not sure 
that assessment was credible. Some of Mr Hs recorded objectives werent consistent with 
that. For example, the suitability letter recorded that Mr H had said hed prefer his pension 
savings returns to be guaranteed. But, in any event, I dont see Mr H had any real capacity 
for loss. The fact find recorded that he wasnt a member of a workplace pension (he was self 
employed) and that, aside from the two PPPs InterestMe was advising about, he had no 
other pension arrangements. So the two PPPs represented his entire pension provision, 
aside from his state entitlement, and hed be reliant on them in retirement. Taking that into 
account and his financial circumstances generally, I think InterestMes recommendations 
exposed Mr H to more risk than he shouldve been advised to take. 
I dont think the recommendation to switch to a SIPP was suitable. Nor do I see there was 
any good reason for Mr H to engage the services of a DFM and incur those additional costs. 
As Ive said, his fund was modest and the DFMs fees added an additional layer of costs. 
Any potential improved performance couldve been outweighed by the extra charges. Even if 
investment choices with his existing provider were limited, Im not persuaded that access to 
specialist and sophisticated investment funds and/or services (for which hed be paying) was 
necessary for Mr H and when he wasnt a knowledgeable or experienced investor.  
All in all I think with suitable advice Mr H wouldve retained his existing PPPs. The suitability 
letter records that Mr H had never had a review and hed like to speak to an adviser. I think if 
Mr H had been advised not to switch he wouldve accepted that advice. 
As Ive noted above, InterestMe said it would make further representations about the bonds 
which were included in the DFMs Growth portfolio. We havent received anything. But Ive 
seen submissions made on other cases. I think InterestMes point is that it shouldnt be held 
responsible for some of the investments in the DFMs Growth Portfolio and for any losses 
suffered in connection with those investments. I think there may be arguments around the 
high risk nature of some of the bonds and if the DFM complied with its due diligence, 
disclosure and other requirements. 
My starting point is that the recommendation to switch to the SIPP was unsuitable. But for 
InterestMes unsuitable advice, I think Mr H wouldve remained with his existing provider. 
Further InterestMe also recommended that Mr H use the services of the DFM and invest in 
its Growth Portfolio. As Ive said above, in recommending a switch to a SIPP, InterestMe had 
to take into account the proposed underlying investment. Mr Hs pension money was held by 
the DFM and invested by the DFM in its Growth Portfolio as a direct result of InterestMes 
recommendation and when, as Ive said, the advice to switch to a SIPP and use a DFM 
wasnt suitable. 
I recognise it wasnt InterestMes fault the DFM went into administration. But Mr H is in the 
position hes in because of InterestMes unsuitable advice  but for that he wouldnt have a 
SIPP or a DFM and so the DFMs failure wouldnt have impacted on him. I think the root 
cause of any losses Mr H has suffered in consequence of the DFMs failure goes back to 
InterestMes unsuitable advice. The DFM was regulated and might have some responsibility 
for some of Mr Hs losses. But although the DFM was responsible for managing Mr Hs 
pension fund following the switches, that arrangement only existed by virtue of InterestMes 
unsuitable recommendation. Im only considering a complaint against InterestMe. I think its 
fair and reasonable to hold InterestMe fully responsible for any losses Mr H has suffered in 
consequence of InterestMes unsuitable advice to switch to a SIPP and invest via the DFM.  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close as possibleto the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr H 
wouldve remained with his previous provider. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested. What Ive said follows what the investigator suggested. As the investigator noted, 
we dont know if it will be possible for the previous provider to provide notional values for the 
PPPs had Mr H retained them. So an alternative method of ascertaining a notional value for 
the PPPs is included.  
To compensate Mr H fairly InterestMe Financial Planning Limited must: 
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with the notional value if the PPPs 
had remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, theres a loss and compensation is payable. 
If theres a loss, it should be paid into Mr H's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Hs pension plan, it should be paid direct to Mr H. 
But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. If Mr H wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should also pay Mr H £250 for the distress hes 
experienced. His pension was important to him and the prospect of losing money will have 
been worrying and stressful. 
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Wise 
SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of 
settlementNot 
applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the portfolio or some assets in it are illiquid (meaning they cant be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio or asset. 
So, the actual value of the portfolio or asset should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should take ownership of the illiquid 
portfolio or asset by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount paid should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If InterestMe Financial Planning Limited is unable to purchase the portfolio or all assets the 
actual value(s) should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of the calculation. InterestMe 
Financial Planning Limited may wish to require that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the portfolio or asset(s) in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
notional value
This is the value of Mr H's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the
end date. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should request that the previous provider 
calculates this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Wise SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the Wise 
SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid 
so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If theres a large 
number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, all those payments can be totalled 
and that figure deducted at end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, InterestMe Financial Planning 
Limited should determine a fair value for Mr H's investment using a benchmark  the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return index). The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a 
fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value to calculate 
redress. 
Ive selected that benchmark as I think Mr H was in a position to accept some investment 
risk. The benchmark is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK 
equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return. Although its called an income index, the mix and 
diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a 
reasonable measure of comparison given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further fees avoided, the illiquid investments need to 
be removed. Ive set out above how that might be achieved. But, if InterestMe Financial 
Planning Limited is unable to take ownership of any illiquid investments (and they cant 
otherwise be removed from the SIPP) theyll remain in the SIPP. I dont think it would be fair 
for Mr H to have to pay ongoing SIPP fees when the SIPP was only established following 
unsuitable advice. So, if the SIPP cant be closed, InterestMe Financial Planning Limited 
should pay Mr H a lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). That gives a reasonable period to arrange for the 
SIPP to be closed. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
InterestMe Financial Planning Limited must calculate and pay compensation to Mr H as Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Lesley SteadOmbudsman