DRN-3053033
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has unfairly handled a claim 
made under her buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Tesco includes that of its agents or contractors unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ive summarised events. For reference, this claim is not yet 
resolved and so this complaint only concerns events up until June 2020.
In February 2016 Mrs D raised a claim with Tesco related to drains. Following this 
the property was monitored for ground movement and drain repairs were carried out.
Around October 2017, based on its monitoring, Tesco determined the property was 
stable so it would begin repairs.
In August 2018 Tesco arranged a meeting to discuss necessary repairs. A schedule 
was agreed in September 2019. Alternative accommodation was arranged for Mrs D 
and works began in December 2019.
A leak from Mrs Ds water tank was discovered during these repairs. Tesco initially 
said the damage was caused by wear and tear and wouldnt be covered. But after 
some back and forth, it agreed to cover the tank and related damage.
Around this time, an issue occurred leading to a power outage which led to the food 
within Mrs Ds freezer being spoiled. Tesco agreed to reimburse a reasonable cost of 
this which it placed at £100. It also agreed to pay £60 related to electric costs.
A built-in wardrobe was also damaged by Tesco during the repairs as it was 
reassembled. It agreed to rebuild or replace this. However this sat on tiles that 
contained asbestos  which Mrs D had concerns about. Tesco said it would either 
rebuild the wardrobe without disturbing these tiles, or remove them if necessary if this 
wasnt possible. It said it wouldnt provide alternative accommodation for this issue.
Mrs D raised concerns about a padlock being attached to the door during works while 
she was in alternative accommodation. Tesco said this was prevent any risk of 
entering the property while it was a building site.
Mrs D also raised concerns about doors and windows which she said were still 
leaning, and that there were cracks to walls. And about the condition of the property 
after she moved back in. As well as delays and overall handling.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. Tesco agreed it had made mistakes and 
caused unnecessary delays. So, it offered £750 in compensation for what happened.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He agreed there were a number of 
significant, unexplained delays during the life of the claim. He said the damage to the 
water tank caused particular distress to Mrs D. He said Tescos offer for the frozen 
items was fair in light of the available evidence. And he said he wouldnt ask Tesco to 
offer any alternative accommodation in relation to the tiles beneath the wardrobe as 
the relevant tests showed minimal risk to health.
The investigator recognised the padlock on the door wouldve been distressing to 
Mrs D due to the lack of communication around it, and he said hed expect Tesco to 
put the door back into a pre-loss condition.
The investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to show the property was still 
moving or that there was still ongoing subsidence. And that any cracks would need to 
be discussed within a later snagging meeting. And that while the works werent 
completed when Mrs D and her family returned, the home was habitable and not a 
safety concern so he was satisfied further alternative accommodation wasnt 
necessary. He also said Tesco wouldnt need to pay any additional petrol costs 
incurred by Mrs Ds family member.
The investigator concluded Tescos poor handling of the claim had led to multiple 
delays, as well as unnecessary distress and inconvenience for Mrs D. So, he said 
Tesco should increase its award to Mrs D to £1,000 in total compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, and £100 for her spoiled frozen goods.
Tesco responded to say it agreed to the increased compensation. But Mrs D didnt. 
Mrs D reiterated the contents of her freezer were worth £150. And she said the 
investigator hadnt detailed mistakes that Tesco had made and already agreed to, 
including workmanship around her curtains and curtain tracks.
Our investigator said the matter of the curtains was still in contention and would form 
part of the snagging list considered in a later meeting. And the mistakes Tesco had 
already acknowledged formed part of his reasoning for increasing the compensation.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays 
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide appropriate 
information on a claims progress. In this case, its clear to me that Tesco has not met these 
obligations, and that there are prolonged periods of delay. 
Tesco has also acknowledged these delays and apologised for the service it provided. So, I 
see no benefit in detailing these delays any further beyond saying I think this was 
unacceptable and Im very sympathetic to the impact this has had on Mrs D across the life of 
this claim.
Financial losses and alternative accommodation
Mrs D has said shes unhappy with the £100 Tesco has offered for her loss of goods within 
her freezer. Ive taken on board her comments, but in light of the lack of available evidence 
to support this, Im satisfied Tescos offer was reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not 
going to direct it to increase this sum.
Mrs D has detailed the increased petrol costs a family member has incurred. But as these 
are not Mrs Ds losses, these arent something Id expect Tesco to cover.Mrs D has raised concerns around exposure to asbestos within the home. I understand both 
Tesco and Mrs D arranged for tests to be carried out and these showed negative results with 
the exception of the tiles beneath the fitted wardrobe. So, in light of these results, I see no 
reason Tesco wouldve needed to provide additional alternative accommodation. Should any 
of Tescos proposed repairs lead to the disturbance of the affected tiles Id expect it to 
consider this risk again. 
Outstanding issues and alleged further subsidence
Mrs D has raised concerns about various snagging issues with the property. Including the 
conditions of her curtains and curtain rails. As our investigator has said  these snagging 
issues were proposed to be discussed in a meeting in August 2020. From which a scope of 
works would be decided. 
For this reason, I have not made a determination on what Tesco should do on these matters 
within the scope of this decision. I have considered the overall impact of delays leading to 
this point however in reaching my decision. I would also expect Tesco to have considered 
the comments made by our investigator previously around this  such as putting Mrs Ds 
door back into a pre-loss condition.
When Tesco carried out its subsidence repairs and works, it had a duty to ensure these were 
lasting and effective. That means the repair should resolve the subsidence problem for a 
reasonable period of time. Mrs D has raised concerns about further cracks. But based on the 
information available to me, Im not persuaded theres evidence of a continuing subsidence 
problem as this isnt supported by expert opinion or evidence. However, I would expect 
Tesco to reconsider this matter in line with the principles Ive described within its review of 
the snagging issues within the property.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
As Ive outlined above, Im very sympathetic to Mrs Ds experience across the life of this 
claim. And its clear to me Tesco has fell below the standards Id expect to see.
Im in agreement with our investigator that Tescos offer of £750 wasnt sufficient 
compensation in light of the experience shes been through and mistakes it has made. 
Taking everything into account, Im directing it to increase its compensation figure to £1,000.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited must do 
the following.
Pay Mrs D £1,000 in compensation. This is inclusive of the £750 offer it has 
previously made, and it may deduct this sum from the total if this was already paid.
Pay Mrs D £100 for the damaged freezer items if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman