DRN-4367101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Lloyds Bank PLC returned a cheque unpaid theyd issued from their 
current account. 
As it was Mr L who issued the cheque and made the complaint, Ive referred mostly to him. 
What happened
Mr L wrote a cheque for £12,000 and paid it into his Individual Savings Account (ISA) at 
another bank, which Ill call S. When Lloyds came to verify the payment of the cheque they 
found they didnt hold a signature for Mr L  so they couldnt verify it. So they returned it 
unpaid. 
Because the cheque was returned unpaid, Mr L tried to transfer the money into the ISA by 
faster payment twice, but both these attempts were rejected. So Mr L complained to Lloyds 
as he felt they were responsible for the fact that he couldnt move the money into his ISA to 
benefit from the full allowance for the year. 
Lloyds responded to say they were sorry that Mr Ls signature mandate wasnt on file. They 
said this was likely because their systems had changed over the years. They credited the 
account with £25 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  including a visit to the 
branch. They also said theyd looked into the two attempted transfers Mr L had made and 
found these had been returned by S. So they suggested Mr L follow this up with them if he 
remained unhappy. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered the complaint. She said, in summary, she agreed Lloyds had 
caused the unpaid cheque by not having Mr Ls signature on file. But didnt think they were 
responsible for the ISA allowance not being taken up. 
Mr L didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said Lloyds had already admitted theyd 
made a mistake so they should be responsible for the lost interest. 
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that Lloyds did not hold Mr Ls signature on file and they 
shouldve done. So Im satisfied that this caused Mr Ls cheque to be returned unpaid, when 
it otherwise likely wouldnt have. To rectify this, Mr L had to visit a branch and I can see 
Lloyds do now hold his signature and this is dated 5 April 2023  so this all seems to have 
been resolved promptly within a couple of days of the cheque being returned unpaid on 
3 April 2023. So I think £25 is fair in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Turning to the transfers, Mr L is adamant Lloyds is also responsible for the fact that he 
wasnt able to get the money into his ISA with S before the end of the tax year and so wants 
them to pay the interest hes lost. He says this because he says Lloyds should have told S 
why the unpaid cheque had been returned  due to their error in relation to the signature 
mandate. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests that these payments were returned by S. And Mr L told us 
and Lloyds, that S said this was because they had counted the cheque towards his ISA 
allowance for the year despite it being returned unpaid. So in these circumstances, I dont 
think I can fairly conclude Lloyds are responsible for the failure of the transfers. Nor do I 
think they were obliged to contact S about the specific reason for the unpaid cheque. Which 
means Im not going to require Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs L the interest they say theyve lost 
out on. 
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds have treated Mr and Mrs L fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman