DRN-3972930
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) incorrectly led him to believe 
hed be approved for a mortgage and that he incurred costs as a result.
What happened
Mr M sought to obtain a mortgage in relation to purchasing a property. In March 2022, Mr M 
obtained an application in principle (AIP) through MAB, a mortgage broker. 
Mr M then approached a different broker in relation to obtaining a mortgage for a different 
property and was informed he wouldnt qualify.
Mr M returned to MAB and applied for a mortgage with a high street bank. This application 
was declined on the basis of Mr Ms income and adverse credit information. Mr M then 
applied for a mortgage with a second lender via MAB but withdrew from this application in 
May 2022. This second application cost Mr M £150.
Mr M complained to MAB and said that it ought to have informed him that he would be 
unlikely to get a mortgage at the beginning. He said if it had done so, he wouldnt have 
proceeded with a purchase and incurred preliminary costs. Mr M also raised customer 
service concerns in relation to incorrect and conflicting information being provided.
MAB said that it wasnt aware of a default on Mr Ms credit file when it made the first 
application and that it was Mr Ms choice not to proceed with the second lender. MAB said 
that lenders can ask in depth financial questions to assess an application against their own 
internal criteria. MAB offered Mr M £150 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M didnt think this was enough, he said hed paid £800 in solicitors fees, application fees, 
and a deposit which he wouldnt have done if hed known he wouldnt have been able to get 
a mortgage. He said he had informed the mortgage adviser at MAB of his default history 
over the telephone.
When Mr M complained to our service, the investigator thought MABs offer of £150 was a 
fair way to put matters right. They said they couldnt know if Mr Ms second application would 
have been successful and it was Mr Ms decision not to proceed. The investigator didnt think 
MAB was responsible for the costs Mr M had described.
Mr M asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer MAB has made to pay Mr M £150 is fair in the 
circumstances. This is for the following reasons:
Whilst MAB provided Mr M with an AIB, this is a preliminary stage and they are not a 
guarantee that a mortgage application will be successful. Many different issues can 
come up in the purchase of a property, and its not unusual for a lender to ask for 
further information where this is needed to progress a mortgage application. It was 
Mr Ms decision to incur costs in relation to the prospective purchase before hed 
received a formal mortgage offer and so I dont think it would be fair to expect MAB to 
reimburse Mr M for these.
Mr M was aware there was an application fee of £150 for the second mortgage 
application when this application was made. So, I dont think it was incorrect for him 
to have paid this fee at the time. Based on the evidence available, Mr M didnt incur 
any other costs as part of either mortgage application  as there was no fee for his 
first application and the valuation had not yet taken place for his second application.
Theres some discrepancy around whether MAB ought to have known that Mr M had 
a default on his credit file before the first application was made, and therefore 
whether it ought to have known this application was likely to be unsuccessful. 
However, if it was the case that MAB did know about the default, taking this and the 
other customer service issues Mr M has described into account, I think MABs offer to 
pay Mr M £150 compensation is enough in the circumstances. This is because this 
would be sufficient to reflect what Mr M has described  i.e. being given poor service 
in the form of conflicting information and the disappointment of an application being 
unsuccessful.
On the information available, I cant see that Mr M would not have been able to 
obtain any mortgage, nor can we now know if his second application would have 
been successful. It was Mr Ms choice not to proceed with that application.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained, I think MAB should pay Mr M £150 if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited should pay Mr M £150 
compensation if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman