DRN-2421579
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 4 November 2020 and said I didnt find 
that the PPI had been mis-sold. Ive summarised my provisional findings below.
Mr H applied for his credit card online, and the credit agreement was then produced 
for him to sign. The credit agreement showed that Mr H agreed to take the PPI. I 
thought it was unlikely that this wording wouldve been added to the agreement if Mr 
H hadnt selected the PPI as part of the online application process. So I thought 
Barclaycard made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it.
Mr H said he didnt need the PPI because he was entitled to sick pay from his
employer. But Barclaycard didnt recommend the policy to Mr H so it didnt have to
check if he needed it or whether it was suitable for him.
It was possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. Our adjudicator initially thought that the combination of Mr Hs 
sick pay and savings meant that if hed had better information about the policys cost 
and benefit, it was unlikely hed have thought it was good value for him.
The adjudicator then decided Mr Hs profession meant he was unlikely to be made
redundant. So it was unlikely he wouldve made a claim on the policy for
unemployment benefit. In light of this, the adjudicator thought Mr H wouldve been
unlikely to buy the policy if hed had better information about its cost and benefit.
Mr H was entitled to employer sick pay of 6 months full pay, followed
by 6 months half pay. But if Mr H was off work sick through a work-related incident, 
he would receive sick pay indefinitely. So I could see that the PPI may not have been 
as useful to Mr H if he was off work sick due to a work-related incident.
But the PPI wouldve covered Mr H in connection with accidents or illness that 
werent work related. And in those circumstances the PPI wouldve paid out for 
longer than his employer sick-pay.
So even if Barclaycard had provided better information about the policys cost and
benefit, on balance I wasnt persuaded Mr Hs employer benefits wouldve changed 
his decision to buy the PPI.
In addition, Id seen nothing to suggest that Mr Hs continued employment was
guaranteed, or that he could never be made redundant. His employer
offered some sort of redundancy pay, which suggested to me that even if the chance 
of redundancy was remote, it was a possibility.
So I wasnt persuaded that Mr Hs employment meant he wouldve made a different
decision about buying the policy if hed had better information about its cost and
benefit.
The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So overall I didnt
think better information about the policy wouldve stopped Mr H buying it.
Which meant Barclaycard didnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But 
Barclaycard had paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
 
- Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclaycard 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Barclaycard had paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I thought that was fair in this 
case.
The parties didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
In the absence of any further representations by the parties, I see no reason to depart from 
the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decisionMy decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC
(trading as Barclaycard) does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mr H any
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand
it has already done this, so my decision is that I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman