The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how Allay Claims Ltd dealt with her claims for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs C instructed Allay in March 2019 to do a Free PPI Check. This confirmed she had PPI 
with Lender N and Lender S. PPI claims were successfully made against both lenders and 
Allay invoiced Mrs C for their fees.
Mrs C has complained that Allay arent justified in charging any fees for the claim with 
Lender S, because she did the work on this claim herself. Shes also complained that she 
didnt ask Allay to make the claim against Lender N, so she doesnt think they should be 
charging any fees for this claim either.
Our investigator found that Allay hadnt acted reasonably. She found theyd prepared and 
submitted Mrs Cs claims, as instructed, and they dealt with any queries they received. She 
didnt think Allay could be held responsible for Lender S contacting Mrs C direct, or for Mrs C 
choosing to deal with them instead of asking them to contact Allay. So she felt that Allays 
fees for this claim were rightfully due.
But she felt that Mrs C had told Allay that she didnt want them to deal with the claim for 
Lender N on her behalf. Because of this she didnt think that Allay should charge any fees for 
this claim. She also felt that Allay should pay Mrs C £100 to reflect the upset caused to her 
by Allay continuing to deal with this claim.
Allay didnt agree with the investigator. They say that Mrs C completed a Claim 
Questionnaire for the claim with Lender N and, as per their Terms of Engagement; this is 
authority to proceed with a claim. So they believe that their fee for Lender N is due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mrs C signed a Letter of Authority with Allay on 10 March 2019. This authority 
allowed Allay to pursue PPI claims on Mrs Cs behalf, and it wasnt specific to any lender. 
The Terms of Engagement Mrs C agreed to when signing the Letter of Authority also said 
you give us permission to investigate all accounts with your lenders. So Im happy that Mrs 
C signed an authority that applied to both Lender N and Lender S.
But the Terms of Engagement also said we will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify 
you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender following your 
instruction. Your instruction can be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, 
DRN-1318996submitting the Claim Questionnaire online or over the telephone with Allay. This means that, 
despite having already completed the Letter of Authority, Mrs C would need to give Allay 
some form of additional instructions before they could actually make any claims for her.
Its not disputed that Mrs C instructed Allay to make a claim against Lender S. She 
completed the Claim Questionnaire and Allay submitted the claim for her. Lender S 
acknowledged the claim on 25 April 2019. Mrs C has said that Lender S phoned her on a 
number of occasions about her claim, asking her to complete and supply more paperwork, 
before her claim was successful. While Ive not seen any evidence of this, I dont doubt that 
this was the case.
But Allay were acting as Mrs Cs representative in her claim against Lender S. Because of 
this she shouldnt have been contacted by Lender S directly  where its clear a 
representative is acting, Lender S shouldve dealt with the representative. I cant hold Allay 
responsible for Lender Ss actions, and for contacting Mrs C when they shouldnt have.
When contacted by Lender S, Mrs C had the choice to deal with them, or ask them to 
contact Allay. She chose to deal with the Lender S direct, knowing that Allay were charging 
for their services. Mrs Cs choice doesnt alter this fact, and I dont agree that Allays fee 
should be reduced or waived as a result. 
Ive also seen that Allay sent Mrs C an email on 28 May 2019, letting her known that theyd 
found PPI with Lender N. This email had a link where Mrs C could answer a few quick 
questions so her claim could be submitted. The link was for the Claim Questionnaire. 
Allays contact notes also show they sent Mrs C a text on 29 May 2019, telling her theyd 
found PPI with Lender N. This text said Allay needed to clarify a few points before we 
submit this today! Please follow this link  the link was also for the Claim Questionnaire. 
The Contact Notes show that Mrs C completed the Claim Questionnaire on 29 May 2019 
and Allay submitted the claim for her. Lender N acknowledged the claim in writing on 4 June 
2019 to both Allay and Mrs C. On 25 June 2019 Allay sent Mrs C another text, telling her 
that Lender N had acknowledged her claim, and were investigating this. Mrs S has said she 
received an email from Allay, also dated 25 June 2019, which also told her that Lender N 
were investigating her claim. The claim was successful in July 2019.
Mrs S says she didnt respond to Allays emails about the claim with Lender N, because she 
didnt want them to act for her. Ive also seen that, in her email of 11 June 2019 complaining 
about Allays fees for the claim with Lender S, Mrs C said she did not complete your 
paperwork and I did not sign to instruct you to act on my behalf. Instead I contacted [Lender 
N] privately myself and started a claim personally.
Although Mrs S had completed the Claim Questionnaire for Lender N on 29 May 2019, she 
was clearly telling Allay on 11 June 2019 that she hadnt done this and didnt want them to 
act for her. I wouldve expected Allay to query this with her. If theyd done so, given that Mrs 
C was already unhappy with how Allay dealt with the claim for Lender S, I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs C wouldve told Allay to stop any work on the Lender N claim. And as 
this conversation shouldve taken place within 14 days of Mrs C completing the Claims 
Questionnaire, the cancellation wouldve been within the cooling off period  so there 
wouldnt have been any cancellation charges.
But instead Allay did nothing, choosing to ignore this part of Mrs Cs complaint email. So I 
agree with the investigator that Allay shouldnt be able to charge any fees on the claim 
against Lender N. I also agree that Allay should pay Mrs C £100 to reflect the stress and 
upset caused by them continuing to deal with a claim when she didnt want them to. But I also think its fair that Allay can offset this payment from the outstanding fees Mrs C owes for 
the claim against Lender S.
Putting things right
Allay Claims Ltd should:
Cancel their invoice for the claim against Lender N, confirming in writing to Mrs C that
this has been done.
Pay Mrs C £100 to reflect the stress and upset caused by them continuing with the
claim against Lender N, despite Mrs Cs clear indication that she didnt want them to
do so. This amount may be offset against any outstanding fees for the Claim against
Lender S.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Allay Claims Ltd must follow 
the directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman