DRN-4255158
The complaint
Mr P complains Salary Finance Limited (SFL) continued to report negative information to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) regarding his loan after itd been paid off.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr P repaid his debt with SFL, but despite that saw them continuing to 
report negative information on his credit file with the CRAs. Mr P said this caused him 
immense stress.
SFL said the correct process wasnt followed from their side to close the loan down. They 
said they would arrange to update the CRAs and this could take six to eight weeks. And, to 
say sorry, they offered Mr P £100 in compensation. 
Mr P has told us he initially accepted this amount. But then the money wasnt paid to him 
and he said SFL had started to ignore him, so he asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators did so, and felt £200 compensation was a fairer reflection of the 
distress SFL had caused Mr P.
SFL accepted this, but Mr P didnt. He said he thought a further £500 compensation, in 
addition to the £100 thatd now been paid to him, was fairer. Our Investigator put that to SFL, 
but they didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute SFL havent handled things fairly. They accepted they didnt update Mr Ps 
credit file when they should have done  and it doesnt appear to be in dispute either theyve 
provided him with poor service when he was raising these issues. So, the only thing I need 
to decide is fair compensation to put these matters right.
Mr P has said this event has had a significant detrimental impact on his emotional and 
financial wellbeing  and that its been the most stressful thing in his life.
Im genuinely sorry to hear of the impact Mr P has experienced as a result of SFLs errors. I 
agree with our Investigator £100 isnt enough to recognise the impact to Mr P. But, I do think 
the £200 recommended is a fair amount.
I say that because when raised to SFL they accepted theyd make a mistake and arranged 
to fix it. I do think their communication following this needed to be better  as they seemingly 
started ignoring Mr P. But, overall, they recognised theyd made a mistake once it was 
flagged to them and took steps to resolve the issue. So, Im satisfied £200 compensation in 
total is fair and in line with our guidelines.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Salary Finance Limited to pay Mr P a total of £200 
compensation for this complaint. They can deduct any payments already made from the final 
amount they send to Mr P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman