DRN-2854824
The complaint
Mr D complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) failed to provide him with 
appropriate advice about the transfer, and investment, of his pension savings.   
What happened
Mr D has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company. But, for 
ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Mr D himself.
Mr D held deferred pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). Mr D says 
that, in 2015, Portal got in touch with him and explained he might be able to take a lump sum 
from his pension savings. He discussed transferring his pension benefits from the OPS to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Since he was older than 55 years at that time 
transferring his pension savings would allow him to immediately access a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash.) Portal advised him 
against making that transfer but agreed to treat Mr D as an insistent client, and facilitate the 
transfer for him. It provided him with advice about the investment of his pension savings in 
the SIPP. 
The transfer completed the following month and the PCLS was paid to Mr D. His remaining 
pension savings were invested in line with the advice he received from Portal.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think it had been 
reasonable for Portal to treat Mr D as an insistent client. So he didnt think Mr D should have 
been assisted in transferring his pension savings from the OPS to the SIPP. Our investigator 
asked Portal to put things right for Mr D.
Portal didnt agree with our investigators assessment. In brief it said that it had carefully 
followed the regulators requirements for dealing with insistent clients. It thought that Mr D 
had been given clear information about the risks of the transfer, and that he had decided to 
proceed regardless. It said it had assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk and so, given it had treated 
him as an insistent client, it had implemented an appropriate investment approach. 
Since the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr D accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there are three matters that I need to consider here. Firstly, whether the advice Portal 
gave to Mr D about potentially transferring his pension savings from the OPS was suitable. 
I then need to think about whether it was right for Portal to treat Mr D as an insistent client, 
and facilitate the transfer of his pension benefits despite it being contrary to its advice. And 
finally, should I think Portal acted reasonably in the first two aspects, then to consider the 
advice it gave to Mr D about the investment of his pension savings.
It would first be helpful to consider the relevant regulations from the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr D were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Portal 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ds 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to   
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;  
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
In looking at the suitability of a transfer of Mr Ds pension savings I think Portal gathered the 
necessary information from Mr D and the administrator of his OPS. It used that information 
to calculate what is known as the critical yield. In simple terms, that is the rate at which 
Mr Ds pension investments would need to grow after any transfer in order to replicate the 
benefits that he was giving up from the OPS. Portal estimated that for Mr D the critical yield 
would be 9.9%. Portal rightly concluded that achieving that critical yield would be unlikely, 
and so it couldnt recommend that Mr D transfer his pension savings from the OPS.
I think that was the correct recommendation in Mr Ds circumstances. He held valuable 
guaranteed benefits with the OPS. And the suitability report indicated that he had little else, 
such as alternative pensions or savings, that he could use to support his living costs once he 
had retired. So I dont think it would have been appropriate to recommend that Mr D give up 
his guaranteed benefits and transfer his pension savings to a SIPP.
Portal says that, once it had delivered its advice to Mr D, to not transfer his pension savings, 
he asked to be treated as an insistent client. That would mean that Mr D was effectively 
disregarding Portals advice and asking that the transfer progress regardless. Treating a 
consumer as being insistent does however place a number of obligations on Portal to ensure 
that it provides Mr D with sufficient information about the risks he is taking. And it is 
important for Portal to ensure that it hasnt acted in such a way that Mr D was persuaded to 
follow an insistent approach.
I have a number of concerns about whether it was reasonable for Portal to treat Mr D as an 
insistent client. And in particular whether Portals actions encouraged Mr D to follow that 
approach.I think it would be helpful for me to set out my understanding of how the relationship between 
Mr D and Portal developed over time.
Mr D says that he was cold called by Portal and was told that he might be able to access a 
lump sum from his pension savings. At that time he gave Portal the necessary authorities 
and information for it to gather details of the pension savings that he held. Once Portal had 
analysed the information it gathered it wrote to Mr D asking him to arrange a telephone 
conversation and discuss its findings. In that letter it told Mr D that there were three options 
open to him following the call, but give any indications of the suitability of each option. It said 
he could either;
Do nothing
Transfer his pension savings, take a cash lump sum, and leave the remaining 
amount invested until he needed to take a regular income from his pension
Transfer his pension savings, take a cash lump sum, and use the remaining savings 
to generate an immediate income.
Portal told Mr D that he would receive its formal recommendation after the telephone call. 
That call took place towards the end of April 2015. Portal says that on that call it told Mr D 
that its recommendation was to leave his pension savings with the OPS. But it says he was 
unhappy with that recommendation and asked to be treated as an insistent client. So Portal 
says that request was reflected in the formal report it issued to Mr D a few days later. And at 
that time Mr D was also asked to complete some documentation to confirm he wished to be 
treated as an insistent client.
It seems to me that, throughout the initial stages of the process, Portal very much gave the 
impression to Mr D that its processes would simply facilitate his wish to take his PCLS. 
I dont think that early engagement is likely to have sufficiently set out the contrary argument 
 and in particular explained the regulators assumption that generally transfers of this nature 
would not be considered to be in the best interests of a consumer. I think that Portal s 
actions raised an expectation for Mr D that he should take his PCLS.
It is my understanding that the insistent client process is in place to provide a route for 
experienced and fully informed consumers to be allowed to make their own investment 
decisions. At times consumers might wish to take approaches that are not always in their 
best financial interests. But it would be wrong for regulators to prevent those decisions if the 
consumer is fully aware of the risks they are taking.
I dont think that sentiment applies in this case. Mr D has provided testimony that he didnt 
understand what was happening with his pension savings. And he says that he was unaware 
of what was meant by being an insistent client until he made his complaint. I havent seen 
anything to cast doubt on what he says.
I have considered the use that Mr D intended to make of the PCLS. He told Portal that he 
had two daughters, and that he wanted to use the PCLS to purchase a car for one, and to 
take the other on holiday. It doesnt seem to me that either of those were of such importance 
that Mr D would be persuaded he should put his potential retirement income at risk. And 
I have also noted that ultimately Mr D says the PCLS was insufficient to afford both 
purchases. I think that a more considered decision, such as would be taken by an insistent 
client, would have ensured the PCLS was sufficient to meet the planned expenditure.Portal says that Mr D elected to be treated as an insistent client during the phone call he had 
with the firm. So it seems to me that decision would have been taken without the opportunity 
to consider any written recommendation that Portal was making. I think it difficult to justify 
allowing Mr D to proceed in that way before he had the opportunity to consider the complex 
information Portal presented to him in an unpressured environment. And then, since Portal 
says Mr D had already made the decision to proceed regardless, the actual report that Mr D 
was sent followed a recommendation to not move the pension funds with the following;
My recommendation is therefore that you transfer the pensions summarised in the 
next section to a [Provider Name] Personal Pension
It seems very likely to me that the combination of the two recommendations  to not transfer, 
and to transfer  would have caused significant confusion to Mr D when reading Portals 
advice for the first time. If he had failed to understand the insistent client process (as I have 
already said I accept is likely) Mr D would very easily have considered that Portal was 
recommending a decision to transfer his pension savings.
As part of its advice report, Portal asked Mr D to sign a pre-prepared document 
acknowledging the risks of transferring his pension savings and that it was against its advice. 
But Mr D says, and I think it is likely, that he simply signed that document as part of a series 
of documents that were provided. I dont think I can take his signature of that document as 
providing any reassurance that Mr D was genuinely insistent in this transfer.
So, on balance, I dont think it is reasonable, for Portal to say that it only effected the transfer 
because Mr D requested it to do so as an insistent client. I dont think that Portal could 
reasonably conclude that Mr D was fully aware of its advice that he should take no action at 
all  instead I think that, from the very outset of its relationship with Mr D, Portal led him to 
understand that transferring his pension benefits and taking a PCLS would be an appropriate 
course of action, and one taken by the majority of consumers in his circumstances.
Given that I have concluded that Mr D shouldnt have been treated as an insistent client, it 
follows that I dont think Portal should have assisted him with the transfer of his pension 
benefits from the OPS. I will therefore direct Portal to put things right for Mr D by applying 
the regulators guidance on redress of this nature. And by doing that any problems with the 
subsequent advice given to Mr D about the investment of his pension savings will also be 
corrected. So I dont need to consider that part of the complaint any further.
So, in summary, I dont think Portal should have assisted Mr D with the transfer of his 
pension savings from the OPS to a SIPP. Portal needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in if he had remained a member of the OPS. Portal must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to 
put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman