DRN-3653455
The complaint
A company, that Ill call G, complains that AXA Insurance Plc (AXA) has declined a claim 
made under its commercial and residential landlords insurance policy.
What happened
G made a claim to AXA for damage caused to a property they own. AXA appointed a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. The claim was subsequently declined on the basis the 
damage wasnt caused by a one-off insured event.
G disputed AXAs decision and AXA asked another surveyor to review the damage. But the 
decision was ultimately maintained. Although the damage claim was declined, AXA agreed 
that it took too long to reach that decision and offered G £200 compensation. As G was 
unhappy with the claim decision it approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt recommend AXA do anything further. She 
said the policy covered one-off insured events, but based on the reports of the damage, she 
didnt think this is what had happened. Instead she thought the damage had been ongoing 
gradually for a period of time. So, she didnt think AXA had acted unfairly by declining the 
claim.
G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gs policy covers a number of specific one-off insured events, such as storm, flood and 
escape of water. It also covers wider accidental damage. But with the policy cover, there are 
also exclusions that apply. 
There was some initial confusion as to when the claim and damage first occurred and when 
this was reported to AXA. But it was later advised that the damage happened in 
October 2020. G said that there had been an ingress of water due to a broken gutter.
When AXA were notified, they appointed their surveyor to inspect the damage. They looked 
at the various areas of damage. They concluded that the damage had happened over a 
period of time, and was a longstanding issue, rather than as a result of a one-off insured 
event. So, the claim was declined.
The second review of the damage AXA completed also concluded the same and that claim 
decision was maintained.
As I say, the policy does cover one-off events such as storm or flood, but based on what Ive 
seen, which includes the surveyor report and images of the damage, I dont think these 
demonstrate the damage was caused by a one-off insured event. Instead it appears the 
damage is longstanding, has been ongoing and historic, rather than due to a single one-off 
insured event. 
For example, the report concludes rainwater has been overflowing the hopper and running 
down the elevation causing ingress over time, the rear lower level roof is suffering from a 
lack of maintenance and showing signs of historic wear and tear, and there is long term 
water ingress to the basement which has also caused damp and rot to occur. And having 
considered the report and images, I find the conclusions reached in it persuasive.
G says a broken gutter allowed the water to enter the property in one single event. But the 
gutter has been fixed and its unclear how the level of damage that has been caused, in so 
many different areas, and the deterioration thats present, wouldve been cause by a single 
one-off event. And as I say, on balance, I find the surveyors report and images and 
conclusions persuasive.
Along with specific one-off insured events  which I dont think has been shown caused the 
damage here, Gs policy also covers wider accidental damage. However, this also excludes 
wear and tear, defects, rot, gradual deterioration and routine maintenance and repair, which 
on balance I think has caused the damage here.
Ive also considered the roof report which G submitted from around a year prior to when the 
loss was said to have happened. And whilst I note the report comments on the condition of 
the roof at that time, I dont think it demonstrates the later damage claimed for was solely 
due to a one-off insured event, rather than as a result of the conclusions reached by the 
surveyor report and images - which I find persuasive.
AXA recognise the claim handling could have been better and offered £200 compensation to 
G in their December final response letter. I dont think thats unreasonable, so Im not going 
to ask AXA to do any more.
My final decision
AXA Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that AXA Insurance Plc should pay £200, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman