DRN-3285146
The complaint
Mr H complains that Newline Insurance Company Limited (Newline) refused a claim on his 
car hire insurance.
What happened
Mr H hired a van. He took out collision damage waiver and supplemental liability plus excess 
insurance, also known as car hire excess insurance, underwritten by Newline. This sort of 
policy is designed to cover accidental damage to a hire vehicle or any excess that needs to 
be paid by the hirer. The van was damaged, but Newline refused to pay the claim, saying the 
policy didnt cover vans.
Mr H wasnt happy with this, so he complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint, saying that the policy didnt cover vans.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr H wants 
Newline to pay the claim in full.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H says Newline should pay his claim. He says the information he was given about the 
policy was inaccurate or misleading, in that it indicated that the insurance would be valid 
except a vehicle with more than 7 seats or more than 3.5 tonnes or is more than 10 years 
old or valued at more than GBP70,000 (or equivalent in local currency). Mr H said he hired 
a van for non-commercial purposes so it should have been covered.
There is no dispute that the vehicle Mr H hired was a van, and this is also clear from the 
rental documents. 
The Insurance Product Information Document for the policy states:
What is not insured
Motor homes, camper vans, trailers, caravans, vans, commercial vehicles, trucks, 
two or three wheeled vehicles, off-road vehicles, recreational vehicles, prestige or 
exotic vehicles, 
Vehicles valued at over GBP 70,000 or over 10 years old..
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
What is not covered
We will not reimburse your excess or any loss or expense in the following circumstances
If the vehicle being hired is a motor home, camper van, trailer or caravan, van, commercial 
vehicle or truck, two or three wheeled vehicle, off-road vehicle, recreational vehicle, high 
performance vehicle, prestige or exotic vehicle, passenger van or other vehicle with more 
than 7 seats or over 3.5 tonnes or is more than10 years old valued at more than GBP 70,000 
(or equivalent in local currency).
So I think its clear from the policy documents that Mr Hs policy didnt cover vans. So I think 
it was fair and reasonable of Newline to refuse his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. So I wont be asking Newline 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman