DRN-3733651
The complaint
Miss P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly decided 
to start charging her for a package bank account she had previously held with no fee.
What happened
As a NatWest staff pensioner Miss P received a package bank account free of charge from 
NatWest. From May 2022 NatWest introduced a fee for the account. 
Miss P says her account was offered to her as a free account, there were no terms and 
conditions with the account and NatWest should not be allowed to introduce a fee now.
One of our adjudicators considered Miss Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
As Miss P disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Employer/employee relationships are not within the jurisdiction of this service. But from 
everything Ive seen within the scope of our service I dont think NatWest has done anything 
wrong.
NatWest has explained that it previously offered an inconsistent approach to the discounts it 
was offering colleagues and pensioners based in the UK. Some were receiving a discount 
on package bank account fees and others had the accounts completely free of charge. To 
offer a more consistent approach NatWest decided to change its offering to all staff 
pensioners and a 50% discount was introduced for those that held a package bank account.
Its not unusual for a bank to review the accounts it offers, including any discounts or free 
bank accounts. Its also not unusual for a bank to decide to no longer offer an account free of 
charge, or for it to increase the fees it charges. This type of decision is a commercial 
decision and considered fair.
However, when a decision like this is made, we expect the bank to provide reasonable 
notice of the changes, and to explain the available options.
NatWest wrote to Miss P in March 2022. The letter explained that Miss Ps monthly discount 
was changing to 50% from the 19 May 2022. The Letter also explained the fee for the 
account would be £9 and that other fee-free account options were available.
I think this letter clearly explained the change and the options that were available to Miss P. 
It also gave Miss P time to decide if she wanted to continue with the account including the 
fee or look at other free banking options. So, I think NatWest met the obligations it had to 
Miss P.
Miss P says she was told by staff at NatWest that her package bank account was free for life 
and that the offer she accepted had no expiry date so legally NatWest cannot introduce a 
charge for her account.
Miss P has provided evidence to show her package bank account was offered to her on a 
fee-free basis and tells us no terms and conditions came with the account so it should 
continue to be offered to her on a fee-free basis, as per the original agreement which she 
hasnt agreed to change. But as Ive explained above, I think NatWest has made the change 
to Miss Ps account fairly and I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong.
Miss P has further said that in contract law NatWest are not able to make the change they 
have. This does not change my decision and if Miss P would like to pursue her complaint via 
another method this option may remain open to her if she doesnt accept this decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman