DRN-3927979
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy Caxton Payments Limited wont refund money she lost as a result of a 
payment she didnt authorise.
What happened
It is undisputed that, in June 2021, Ms Ks email account was accessed by a third party. That 
third party was able to reset her Caxton account password and instruct a number of 
payments from her account. Only one of those payments has not been returned to Ms K  a 
payment of £9,850. 
The following day Ms K noticed an email from Caxton relating to the fraudulent instruction. 
She contacted Caxton and the matter came to light. 
It said that it wasnt responsible for her loss because it had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions and its security systems had not been compromised. 
Ms K argued that Caxton didnt provide adequate protection to its clients as there was no 
additional security check on the payments. She also pointed out that the fraudulent 
instructions ran contrary to her stated intentions for the money, something Caxton was fully 
aware of.
Ms K referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. They thought 
that under the relevant regulations Caxton, rather than Ms K, was responsible for the 
payment. So, they recommended that it refunded Ms K in full.
Caxton didnt agree. It maintained that its terms and conditions meant it wasnt responsible 
for the loss. Ms K said that shed like a final decision to be clear that Caxton had a 
responsibility to keep her funds safe and it failed to do this by not listening to her intentions, 
not having the correct protocols in place and not noticing that the fraudulent instruction did 
not match her normal way of making a payment. She was also disappointed with the way in 
which Caxton handled her claim and felt it was very dismissive.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Ms K is only 
responsible for transactions shes authorised.
Theres no dispute that Ms K didnt ask Caxton to make the transaction. But Caxton seeks to 
rely on clause 5.4 of its terms and conditions to argue that any instruction it receives from a 
users account can be treated as authorised. That clause demands that:
"The Client shall keep all passwords and authorisations issued to it by CFX confidential and 
secure and CFX shall be entitled to rely on all instructions or Orders received by it using 
those passwords and authorisations as if they were received from the Client, without 
conducting any further checks as to the identity of the person making the instruction or 
Order."
A transaction can still be considered authorised if an account holder has given authority to 
another person (intentionally or otherwise) to act on their behalf. But a business cannot treat 
any instruction as authorised merely because it has been authenticated using the account 
holders personalised security information. It also needs to demonstrate that the person 
instructing the payment either was, or had the authority of, the payment service user 
(whether that authority was apparent or actual).
In this case, Ms K didnt give any authority to another person (intentionally or otherwise). Her 
email account was accessed fraudulently and her Caxton password was reset.
 
So, Im satisfied the transaction in dispute wasnt authorised by Ms K and that means, as a 
starting point, Caxton is responsible for the loss.
Under the PSR 2017, an account holder can be held responsible for an unauthorised 
payment if theyve failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with Regulation 72 or the 
terms of their account. Theres no definitive definition of gross negligence but it suggests a 
very significant degree of carelessness and a serious disregard to an obvious risk.
 
Reg. 72 PSR 2017 sets out that:
(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its 
issue and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) Paragraph (1)(a) applies only in relation to terms and conditions that are objective, non-
discriminatory and proportionate.
(3) The payment service user must take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised 
security credentials relating to a payment instrument or an account information service.
In addition to the clause Ive already set out, Caxton also rely on clause 11.3 of their terms. 
That clause explains that:
"You must maintain up to date anti-virus protection on the device from which You access 
Your Caxton account. You must also remain vigilant and check that You are accessing only 
the proper Caxton website at all times."
Ive already explained that Ms K did not intentionally share any sensitive account 
information. Its clear that the fraudster was able to access her account by resetting her 
password. So, Im satisfied that her loss was not as a result of an intentional disregard of the 
terms or her obligations in Reg. 72. Ive gone onto consider whether Ms K failed with gross 
negligence. 
It isnt enough for Caxton to show that either clause was breached, it needs to show that any 
breach was grossly negligent. But, in any case, theres no evidence that Ms K didnt have up 
to date anti-virus protection and, as far as I know, such software wouldnt necessarily 
prevent a third-party gaining access to an email account. So, Caxton cannot rely on clause 
11.3 to decline her claim.In relation to clause 5.4, its undisputed that the third party obtained access to Ms Ks 
account by resetting her Caxton password. There is nothing to suggest Ms K failed to keep 
her password secure. Whether Ms Ks email account password was also kept secure is 
unknown to me, but also not relevant. It wasnt issued to her by Caxton and, in these 
circumstances, would not constitute a payment instrument under the PSR 2017 (as it was 
not used, and seemingly could not be used, to instruct the payment).
So, Caxton havent satisfied me that its terms were breached and I certainly havent seen 
anything to suggest they were breached with intent or gross negligence. It follows that 
Caxton are responsible for Ms Ks loss. 
Turning to Ms Ks points, I understand why shes unhappy that the transaction was ever 
allowed to proceed. It isnt my role to instruct Caxton as to what security procedures it ought 
to have in place. But I can consider whether a financial business ought to have identified that 
an instruction it received was fraudulent. I agree that the fraudulent instruction which 
seemed to be contrary to Ms Ks intention for the money and the fact the payment was 
instructed in a way that wasnt typical for her account, might have caused some concern but 
Im also sympathetic to the arguments raised by Caxton  that it is a large business dealing 
with many clients and instructions. In any case, such a finding makes no difference to the 
outcome of this case.
Finally, turning to interest, Ms Ks intention was to invest the money in stocks and shares. 
Understandably, shes not able to demonstrate how her investment would have performed 
over the period since her loss. Taking that into account, our investigator recommended 
interest at the Bank of Englands published rate for one year fixed-rate bonds for the month 
of June 2021. That rate is 0.24%. As Ms K has accepted this and its not possible for me to 
accurately calculate how any investments might have performed, I think this award of 
interest is fair. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Caxton Payments Limited to pay Ms K:
- £9,850
- Simple interest per annum on that amount at the rate of 0.24% from the date of loss 
to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman