DRN-1651946
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs T in 1996 in connection with a 
mortgage they arranged with Santander. The policy provided Mr T with cover if he couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts needs?
-           Did Santander give Mr and Mrs T the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs T are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt ask for the PPI and didnt agree to take it. They say they didnt 
buy PPI with any other financial products, so they wouldnt have bought it in connection with 
their mortgage either. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs T have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs T and 
Santander when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over 
twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from when the policy was sold, 
which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed.
But the bank has provided a sample of the application form that had to be completed at the 
time, to apply for the PPI. Customers had to decide the level of cover they wanted, before 
signing the form.
On balance I think its unlikely Santander wouldve added the PPI to Mr and Mrs Ts account 
if they hadnt agreed to buy the cover by completing the application form. 
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs T have told me, I dont think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Santander didnt make them aware the PPI was optional.
Santander accepts that it probably advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy and it doesnt 
look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
-           theres nothing to suggest that Mr T wasnt eligible for the cover.
-           Mr T says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and that he and Mrs T had some savings. Mr T has also told me that 
he was in a very secure job, and that  family wouldve helped if he couldnt work. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ts employer sick pay and would do so, it seems, 
for longer. Having the policy in place wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs T to use Mr Ts employer 
benefits and their savings to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant they didnt have to 
rely on their family. So I think Mr and Mrs T would have had some use for the policy, despite 
their existing arrangements.
-           Mr T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs T 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs T 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs T took out the policy knowing they would have 
to pay something for it, and it seems the policy was apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs T 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman