DRN-1946801
The complaint
 Mr. L is unhappy that Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) ,a trading name of Clydesdale 
Financial Services (CFS,) changed its policy so he could not pay off his pay later loan 
(BNPL) by credit card. He would like the balance repaid, a further 18 months for the full 
amount to be repaid without interest added. And would like compensation for the 
inconvenience.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: -
The contract Mr. L signed with BPF and the accompanying paperwork makes no 
mention of how the balance of the BNPL loan can be repaid, only that if the full 
balance of the loan isnt repaid after 12 months interest will be applied. I have no 
evidence to show there was any agreement between Mr. L and BPF that he would 
repay the loan by credit card. Its unfortunate that BPF changed its policy but that is a 
business decision it was entitled to take.
BPF offered to extend the interest option period for several months. And paid Mr. L 
£25 compensation. I thought that was reasonable redress in the circumstances. I 
understand Mr. L chose to repay the loan in full and repaid the £25 to BPF.
Mr. L has told us he was disadvantaged as he had to cancel a holiday in order to pay 
off the loan. He hasnt given us any evidence of this. He could perhaps have used 
the credit card for the holiday instead of paying off the BNPL as he intended.
I dont know why Mr. L didnt get the final response letter that BPF sent. BPF has 
accepted Mr. L didnt get this. For that, and for delays in responding to his complaint, 
BPF has offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience.  I think that is a 
reasonable response.
 My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Barclays Partner Finance should pay Mr L £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman