DRN-4369443
The complaint
Mr G complains about contact from Lowell Financial Ltd in relation to a debt that was 
included in his bankruptcy. Mr G also complains that Lowell declined a request to delete his 
personal information.
 
What happened
Mr G had a credit card that was closed at default and sold to a business Ill refer to as H in 
October 2015. Mr Gs explained that in 2016 he was made bankrupt and that the credit card 
debt H owned was included. Mr G says he was discharged from his bankruptcy in 2017 
which shouldve meant he was no longer liable for further repayments. 
In October 2022 H was purchased by Lowell. On 16 May 2023 both H and Lowell wrote to 
Mr G to advise his account had been transferred following the restructure. A third party 
business was appointed by Lowell to try and contact Mr G about the outstanding balance. 
Mr G contacted Lowell to complain and explained that the debt was included in his 
bankruptcy. Mr G also said it was statute barred and asked Lowell to delete all his personal 
data. 
Lowell issued an initial final response on 27 July 2023 and said that as the account remained 
open on its systems it needed to retain Mr Gs data. As a result, Lowell didnt agree to delete 
Mr Gs information from its systems. Lowell issued a follow up final response on 6 
September 2023 and said that whilst the debt was included in Mr Gs bankruptcy it hadnt 
received notice to confirm it had ended from the bankruptcy administrator. As a result, Mr 
Gs account remained open on Hs systems and was transferred to Lowell last year when the 
company was purchased. Lowell confirmed the account had been returned by its agents and 
closed. But Lowell said it was still obliged to retain information about Mr G to meet its legal 
and regulatory obligations. Lowell didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They thought Lowell had taken 
reasonable steps to investigate Mr Gs concerns and were satisfied it wasnt aware he had 
been discharged from his bankruptcy in 2017. The investigator thought the decision to close 
the account after Mr Gs contact was fair in the circumstances. The investigator added that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt consider complaints about the way businesses 
process and retain personal information. 
Mr G asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs case falls broadly into two parts. I understand Mr G was discharged from bankruptcy 
in 2017 which meant he was no longer liable for debts that were included. Lowells confirmed 
that the credit card debt was included in the bankruptcy whilst the account was still held by 
H. But no contact to notify H that Mr G had been discharged from his bankruptcy was 
received in 2017. As a result, the account remained open on Hs systems. So whilst I dont 
doubt that Mr G was discharged from bankruptcy in 2017 as he says, I havent seen any 
evidence that shows H was notified.
When Lowell acquired H, Mr Gs account was transferred to it. Lowell went on to attempt 
contact with Mr G and both it and H sent Notices of Assignment to confirm the new 
arrangement. A short time later, Mr G raised concerns with how his data he been used and 
transferred between different businesses. And I can see Lowell sent a response to those 
concerns to Mr G on 27 July 2023. 
Further contact with Mr G took place and Lowell investigated his claim that the bankruptcy 
had been discharged meaning hes no longer liable for the credit card debt. Im pleased 
Lowell accepted that was the case and took steps to close Mr Gs account on its systems. 
Lowells final response dated 6 September 2023 confirmed Mr G is not liable for further 
payments and that his account has been closed. As Ive said above, I havent seen anything 
that shows H was notified in 2017. In my view, Lowell took reasonable steps to investigate 
what Mr G told it and ultimately agreed he isnt liable for further repayments. I havent seen 
any evidence of unreasonable delays or that Lowell failed to treat Mr G fairly after he 
contacted it to complain about the debt it was seeking to collect. 
Mr Gs explained that he doesnt think Lowell has a legitimate reason to retain his data. 
Lowells explained that when it first responded to Mr G on 27 July 2023 the account 
remained open on its systems. So, its response was made on that basis. But Lowells final 
response dated 6 September 2023 confirmed the account has now been closed. And Lowell 
says that despite the account being closed its still obliged to retain Mr Gs data due to 
regulatory and legal obligations. 
I understand Mr G has already referred a complaint about how Lowell has handled and 
retained his data to the Information Commissioners Office. Id like to explain that whilst we 
can look at whether a business has dealt with a customer fairly or not, complaints about the 
specific way information has been processed or stored arent something we can deal with in 
its own right. Whilst I note Mr Gs comments, Lowell has explained why it is retaining 
information about him despite his account being closed. I havent seen anything that shows 
Lowell treated Mr G unfairly. Mr G has the option of taking his concerns about the way his 
information has been processed and retained forward with the Information Commissioners 
Office. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as Im satisfied Lowell dealt with his complaint fairly and 
took action to close the account in question, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman