DRN-4519845
The complaint
Mr W complains that when he bought his annuity from Legal and General Assurance Society
Limited (L&G), L&G failed to advise him about reviewing the whole of the market to ensure
he was being offered the best annuity rate and amount available. Mr W says thats caused
him financial loss.
Mr W is represented in bringing his complaint. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December 2023. 
Ive recapped here what I said about what had the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings. 
Mr W had a pension fund with Alliance Trust Savings (ATS). In August 2012 Mr W bought a
lifetime annuity from L&G using his accumulated pension fund with ATS. Mr Ws annuity with
L&G pays him £238 pm.
Mr Ws representative says that L&G when selling the annuity to Mr W failed to advise him to
review the whole of the market to ensure that the annuity L&G was offering was the best
available. The annuity Mr W took out with L&G in 2012 may not have been the best annuity
he couldve got  he has medical and lifestyle conditions which may have meant that he
couldve got an enhanced annuity which wouldve paid a higher income.
Mr Ws representative says L&G failed to comply with the requirements of COBS (Conduct
of Business Sourcebook) 19.9.6AR and 19.9.7R. Given what I go on to say below Im not
going to set out those provisions here.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Essentially he said that Mr Ws pension was
held with ATS and the obligations Mr Ws representative had pointed to fell to ATS, not L&G
who had no prior relationship with Mr W prior to him buying his annuity with L&G in 2012.
The investigator didnt think L&G had mis sold the annuity in consequence of not complying
with COBS 19.9.7R and COBS 19.9.6A.
Mr Ws representative didnt agree and said that the provisions referred to applied when
providing a guaranteed annuity quotation which L&G had done.
There were further exchanges. The investigators view remained that COBS 19.9.7R and
19.9.6AR didnt apply to L&G but Mr Ws representative maintained they did.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr Ws complaint is to do with the Open Market Option (OMO). It was introduced in
1975 to allow someone approaching retirement the freedom to shop around and compare
annuities offered by other companies to see if any offered a better annuity rate or income
option than the investors pension provider was prepared to offer. The investor can choose
and doesnt have to accept the annuity offered by their pension provider. As an annuity is
usually an irreversible decision its important to get the best deal.
Mr Ws complaint is that the annuity hes got with L&G which he purchased in 2012 may not
have been the best annuity he couldve got, taking into account that he has medical and
lifestyle conditions.
Mr Ws pension fund wasnt held with L&G but with ATS. So ATS was the pension provider.
Im not sure if ATS offered annuities themselves  not every pension provider does. But I
think the obligations as to making Mr W aware, as his retirement date approached, what his
options were, including the right to shop around for the best annuity, fell to ATS.
Mr Ws representative points to COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.6.6AR and
19.9.7R. I cant see those provisions are relevant here given that the sale of Mr Ws annuity
was in 2012 and COBS 19.9.6AR and 19.9.7R werent introduced until 1 November 2019.
The provisions arent retrospective. L&Gs obligation was to comply with the applicable
COBS rules at the time. I cant uphold a complaint on the basis that L&G breached COBS
rules that werent in force at the time.
My understanding is that COBS 19.9 was introduced following the regulators consultation
(CP 18/7) about changes to the requirements for those approaching retirement to receive
wake-up packs. And to improve the effectiveness of the information prompt for consumers
who might be eligible to buy an enhanced annuity. But the requirements fall to providers 
that is the firm with whom the pension savings are held  not to firms that a consumer may
contact to obtain a quotation as to what annuity their accumulated pension fund might buy
with that company and how that compares with the annuity offered by their existing provider.
But I mention that in passing as COBS 19.9 wasnt in force at the time anyway.
COBS 19.4 was the relevant provision at the time. COBS 19.4.1R (3) requires the provider
to issue an open market option statement to the consumer  either the then regulators
factsheet  Your pension: its time to choose or a written statement that gives materially the
same information. The 2012 statement (applicable from July 2012) lists (page 4) a large
range of medical conditions and adds (page 5) that someone in good health who is
overweight or smokes regularly may also be able to get a higher retirement income.
Those obligations clearly fall on the provider (which here isnt L&G). COBS 19.4.1R refers to
using the proceeds of, amongst other things, a personal pension to purchase an annuity on
the open market. Mr W didnt have a personal pension (or other pension arrangement) with
L&G at the time. His pension savings were held by ATS. It was ATS responsibility as the
pension provider to make Mr W aware that he didnt have to buy the annuity that ATS
offered and that he could shop around. If theres any suggestion that Mr W wasnt informed
about the OMO, hell need to make that complaint to Interactive Investor who took over ATS
in 2019.
Im not upholding the complaint. L&G wasnt responsible for complying with COBS 19.4 and
making Mr W aware of the OMO. Theres been no breach of COBS 19.9.7R or COBS
19.9.6A by L&G as, even if those provisions applied to L&G (and I dont think they did), they
werent in force in August 2012 when Mr Ws annuity was sold.
Neither Mr Ws representative nor L&G has made any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments, arguments, information or evidence, my views 
remain as indicated in my provisional decision. Ive set out what I said in my provisional 
decision in full above and it forms part of this final decision. 
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman