DRN-3304032
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid handled his claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr A purchased a car and paid £500 of the £8000 purchase price using his 
Fluid credit card. The sale included a one year warranty which was subject to the servicing 
conditions being met. The warranty invoice said the car had completed 82,155 miles.
Within a week of getting the car, Mr A heard a ticking noise coming from the engine. He 
booked the car into a main dealer for a service and for investigation into the ticking noise. 
The main dealer removed the cylinder head and found excessive movement on one of the 
pistons. It told Mr A that the engine needed replacing. The main dealer also identified an 
issue with a damaged filler tube flap and said this had been caused by previous repair work 
carried out by the supplying dealer when it fitted a new fuel pump before the sale of the car 
to Mr A.
Mr A didnt authorise any repair work, nor was the car serviced. He paid £538.21 for the 
investigation and diagnosis.
Mr A contacted the supplying dealer and asked it to cover the repair costs. It said it could 
source and fit a new engine for £5000 and offered to meet half of these costs.
Mr A wasnt happy that he was being asked to meet half the costs of repair and made a 
formal complaint to the supplying dealer. It responded and said that because Mr A had taken 
the car to a third party garage without authorisation, it was no longer in a position to 
determine the nature of the fault.
Mr A replied and said the fault had been diagnosed by the third party garage but no repair 
work had been carried out. In April 2021 Mr A made a section 75 claim to NewDay.
NewDay rejected the claim. It said the supplying dealer hadnt been given the opportunity to 
inspect the car and therefore it was unable to show whether the fault was present at the 
point of supply.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that based on the finding of the diagnostic 
report she was satisfied that there was a fault with the car. She said that because Mr A had 
only been in possession of the car for a week before experiencing the fault, it was likely that 
the fault was present at the point of supply. The investigator said that Mr A had given the 
supplying dealer the opportunity to inspect and repair the car, but it had refused. She also 
said that under the relevant legislation, the supplying dealer shouldve covered the costs of 
repair in full. She said Mr A should be allowed to reject the car.
NewDay didnt agree. It said the car had passed an MOT prior to the point of supply without 
any issues. It said that if there had been a fault at the point of supply, this wouldve been 
apparent straightaway. NewDay queried why Mr A had taken the car to a third party garage 
when he experienced the fault rather than to the supplying dealer. It said the supplying 
dealer shouldve been given the opportunity to look at the car first.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr As complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that NewDays response to the section 75 claim wasnt 
fair or reasonable.
Mr A hasnt said theres been a misrepresentation, so Ill focus on whether theres been a 
breach of contract. The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. The busines sis allowed one opportunity to repair the car. if the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
The diagnostic report from the third party garage shows that the pistons are damaged and 
that the engine needs replacing. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault 
with the car. The fault was diagnosed around 2 weeks after the point of supply. Mr A hadnt 
covered very much mileage at all during this time. As Ive already said, theres a 
presumption that faults occurring in the first 6 months were present at the point of supply. I 
havent seen any evidence from NewDay or the supplying dealer which rebuts that 
presumption. It follows that the supplying dealer is under an obligation to put things right.
NewDay has said that it rejected Mr As claim under section 75 because he didnt give the 
supplying dealer the opportunity to inspect and repair the car. I disagree. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Mr A reported the fault to the supplying dealer and gave it the 
opportunity to carry out repairs. The supplying dealer offered to carry out repairs but wanted 
Mr A to pay 50% of the repair costs. This wasnt fair or reasonable, nor was it in accordance 
with the relevant legislation.
Ive taken account of what NewDay has said about the third party garage carrying out a 
diagnostic. Theres no evidence that the third party garage caried out any repairs, so I dont 
agree that this is a case of unauthorised repair. I appreciate that the third party garage didnt 
put the cylinder head back on, but I dont think this was a good reason for the supplying 
dealer to refuse to carry out repairs. The evidence suggest that the cylinder head would 
need to be removed in order for repairs to be carried out, so I dont think the supplying 
dealers ability to repair has been compromised here. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car which the supplying dealer had a responsibility to repair at no cost to Mr A. Im also satisfied that the supplying dealer was 
given the opportunity to carry out those repairs. It failed to do so. In the circumstances, Mr A 
should be allowed to reject the car. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think 
NewDays response to the section 75 claim was fair or reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid must:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr A
Refund the cost of the car (£8000)
Refund the cost of the valet and paint correction (£277)
Refund the cost of the diagnostic report (£538.21)
Refund postage costs (£27.40)
Refund transportation costs (£90)
Refund transportation costs (£95)
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman