DRN-4036063
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the errors made by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited when he
transferred his pension to it in 2020. He believes the errors resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 February 2023. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. However to summarise, Mr M transferred his pension 
to Aviva in 2020 through his financial adviser. The transfer value was supposed to be initially 
transferred across to cash, so that Mr Ms pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) and 
the advisers fee would be paid prior to it being invested.
Aviva mistakenly invested the transfer value before paying out the PCLS. Mr M was
subsequently paid a lower PCLS as the total value of the funds had gone down by the date it
was paid. Some of the invested funds had to be sold to pay it.
A complaint was made to Aviva. Aviva acknowledged its error. And it subsequently paid
Mr M the additional PCLS that he was due of approximately £2,700 (plus interest) in
September 2020. It also conducted a loss assessment to see whether Mr M had lost out
financially overall. Aviva said the result of its loss assessment showed Mr Ms pensions
value was marginally higher than it would have been had the error not occurred. So it didnt
think it needed to pay Mr M compensation for financial loss. It said it accepted it had taken
too long to respond to Mr Ms complaint and complete the loss calculations. So ultimately it
paid Mr M £500 in total for the inconvenience caused.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the outcome of his complaint. He thought he had suffered an initial
loss of about £5,500. So he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said where a
business made a mistake, this Services aim in deciding fair compensation was to try and put
the complainant back as closely as possible to the position they would otherwise have been
in had the mistake not occurred. He said Aviva had completed a loss assessment comparing
the actual performance of Mr Ms pension with how it would have performed had the transfer
been completed correctly. He said this was consistent with our normal approach. And he
thought the £500 that Aviva had paid to Mr M over the course of the complaint for the trouble
and upset caused was fair in all the circumstances.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. Therefore the complaint was passed to
me to consider.
In my provisional decision I said I understood Mr Ms suspicions about Avivas calculations 
because on the face of it some of his money was invested when it shouldnt have been, and 
it went down in value. So it would logically seem to follow that whatever happened post 
processing, if fewer units were initially bought he must have lost out.
However I said I thought the reasons for the gain shown in the loss calculations could be 
seen by looking at some of the timings of the investments/disinvestments over the initial 
processing period. And how those investments had performed during that period. In 
particular, I thought the key point was that the value of the fund initially went up during the 
period until units had to be sold to pay the PCLS, but then went down over the few days 
before the PCLS was paid.
I said Avivas loss calculations showed that £118,962s worth of units were sold to cash on 
21 February 2020 to pay the PCLS. Aviva said it sold approximately 10% more than the
likely PCLS payable to ensure it had enough funds in cash to pay it if there were any
fluctuations in values. I said my understanding was that the funds unit prices were about the 
same when they were sold on 21 February 2020 as when they were bought on 10 February 
2020 (or very slightly higher). But then the value had gone down by the 27 February 2020 
when the PCLS was paid. I said market prices started to fall rapidly on 24 February 2020 
due to Covid concerns. But that the £118,962 had already been sold by that date, from 
which the PCLS would be payable. So it hadnt been subject to those falls.
So I said whilst Mr M should have been paid £109,781 out of the initial transfer value and 
then the rest invested (after the advisers fee), that £109,781 wasnt invested in the fund 
when its value went down (and might have made a slight gain during the investment period 
10 to 21 February 2020). I said I understood the additional amount that was disinvested into 
cash (over the PCLS that was actually paid) was gradually re-invested (and after the market 
fell in value from 24 February 2020). So that would likely have been at lower unit prices than 
if it had been invested from the off, and so it would have bought more units (i.e than if Aviva 
had paid the PCLS and the adviser fee and then invested it at the higher unit prices around 
10 February 2020).
I said my understanding was that the total value of the fund had gone down after 21 
February 2020 to approximately £427,964 by 27 February 2020, given the PCLS paid
was £106,991. But £118,962 of that was in cash from 21 February 2020. So it wasnt subject 
to the falling fund value. The remainder would have been invested from 21 February
2020 and so that part would have fallen in value.
However I said if Mr Ms PCLS and the advisers fee had been paid when Aviva received the
transfer value, and then the balance invested, that balance would also have been exposed
to the same fund performance over the relevant period. 
I said I appreciated that the matter wasnt straightforward. But that in my view it wasnt the 
whole fund that shouldnt have been invested, it was only the £109,781. If Aviva had acted 
correctly it would have paid that £109,781 to Mr M and invested the balance (the £322,758 
after paying the advisers fee). I said that balance would have also been subject to the same 
investment performance as what was actually invested. And any losses flowed from the 
£109,781 being invested  when it shouldnt have been. But during the period that £109,781 
was invested it didnt fall in value (and maybe made a slight gain). 
I concluded that, subject to confirmation from Aviva about how it had treated the PCLS in its 
calculation, Id seen no persuasive evidence that Avivas error had caused Mr M a financial 
loss. So my provisional decision was not to uphold the complaint.
Mr M raised some further points in response to my provisional decision. And I requested 
further clarification on its calculations from Aviva. I subsequently wrote to Mr M again on 21 
March 2023 providing further explanation and copies of information Aviva had sent me. In 
summary, the information showed how Aviva had provided for the PCLS in its calculation. 
And I said I was satisfied it had been provided for correctly.The calculations also showed that £118,962 worth of units had been sold on 21 February 
2020 at a slight gain. I said the premise on which the complaint had been based was that 
units had been sold at a loss to provide the PCLS. But in reality, that wasnt what actually 
happened. The units had been sold at a slight gain, and I said this was the key point. So I 
thought Avivas calculations showing a gain were logically consistent with that position.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that over the last three years hed been provided with 
different answers to his query/complaint by both Aviva and, initially, ourselves. He felt hed 
been fobbed off  at best, and didnt think his treatment had been acceptable. 
Mr M said Aviva wouldnt look at the initial transactions and instead repeatedly advised him 
that his portfolio had performed better with a reduced amount invested  which made no 
sense. He said if Aviva had undertaken its remedial work appropriately he wouldnt have had 
to endure the constant stress over the last three years. He said it appeared there was a 
complete lack of accountability, and Avivas complete disregard for his finances and the 
impact the matter had on him left a particularly sour taste.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold 
the complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms feelings about the matter and apologise for the time taken on our part. I 
agree that on the face of it he appeared to have suffered a loss, and so his position on it has 
been understandable. The calculations to recreate the position assuming Aviva had carried 
out the transfer correctly in the first instance were complex. As Ive said above, I think the 
key point is that units hadnt actually had to be sold at a loss. But this wasnt immediately 
obvious given the amount of information in the calculations. And so why  or how  there 
had been a gain wasnt clear. I think if this had been pointed out in the first instance the 
matter would have been resolved a lot earlier. However, Aviva paid Mr M £500 for the 
trouble and upset caused by its initial error. And it was ultimately correct in saying that the 
error hadnt caused Mr M a financial loss, albeit I agree with Mr M that it could have 
explained why, and in a clearer manner, a lot earlier. 
My final decision
Taking all the above into account, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman