DRN-3382462
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain Lloyds Bank PLC recommended professionals who provided a 
poor service in relation to their house move and that Lloyds were responsible for a data 
breach.
What happened
In December 2020 Lloyds offered Mr G and Mrs G a residential mortgage. After theyd 
moved into their new home, they discovered some structural problems. Mr G and Mrs G said 
the surveyors Lloyds had recommended had failed to spot some defects in the property 
which had been expensive to repair. They said the solicitors had failed to obtain appropriate 
indemnities for issues that had been identified by the surveyors. And they were unhappy a 
copy of the survey was sent to their old address. They held Lloyds responsible for what had 
happened.
Lloyds said Mr G and Mrs G should raise their concerns about the survey and indemnities 
with the surveyor and solicitors direct as they werent responsible for any mistakes theyd 
made. They agreed theyd made an error in arranging for a copy of the survey to be sent to 
their old address and offered Mr G and Mr G £300 compensation for that.
Mr G and Mrs G werent happy with Lloyds response, so they brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds could be held responsible for the 
actions of the surveyor and solicitor and felt the compensation Lloyds had offered for the 
data breach was fair. Since Mr G and Mr G didnt agree, their complaints been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the problems Mr G and Mrs G had with their new property. I can 
understand what happened will have been distressing and inconvenient for them. 
I acknowledge Mr G and Mrs G have concerns about Lloyds processes. The Financial 
Ombudsman can only consider individual complaints. Mr G and Mrs G would need to take 
their concerns about the way in which Lloyds operate to the Financial Conduct Authority as 
the regulators for mortgage providers. I understand Mr G and Mrs G also have concerns 
about the way in which their mortgage was set up. I dont address those concerns as part of 
this complaint.
Both the surveyor and solicitors appointed to carry out work in relation to the purchase of the 
new property were on Lloyds panel. 
Whilst Mr G and Mrs G were unhappy with the service they provided, Im satisfied the 
surveyors were suitably qualified and it was reasonable for Lloyds to instruct them to carry 
out a valuation and rely on their advice. Lloyds didnt require Mr G and Mrs G to instruct the 
surveyors to carry out the more extensive Homebuyers Survey they chose to have. Mr G 
and Mrs G engaged the surveyors direct to carry out the survey. It wouldnt be fair to hold 
Lloyds responsible for any mistakes the surveyors may have made in failing to identify 
defects Mr G and Mrs G say they discovered once theyd moved in. Any concerns they have 
about the work the surveyors did would need to be raised with the surveyors direct.
The solicitors appointed to carry out the conveyancing were also on Lloyds panel. Lloyds 
agreed to pay part of their fees in relation to the purchase as part of an incentive scheme. 
There was no obligation on Mr G and Mrs G to use those solicitors. They had a choice of 
several firms if they wanted to take advantage of the incentive. And provided the solicitors 
were on Lloyds panel, Mr G and Mrs G could have used another firm and paid all the fees 
themselves. So, Mr G and Mrs G had a choice. And I think they understood that as initially 
theyd planned to instruct solicitors who werent part of the scheme.
Again, I acknowledge Mr G and Mrs G were unhappy with the service the solicitors provided. 
But Im satisfied they were suitably qualified to carry out the conveyancing work. They were 
acting on Mr G and Mrs Gs behalf in dealing with the indemnities required in relation to the 
property. So its not fair to hold Lloyds responsible for any mistakes Mr G and Mrs G think 
the solicitors may have made relating to that. And Lloyds were right to tell them that any 
concerns about the solicitors actions should be raised with the solicitors direct. 
The surveyors sent Mr G and Mrs G a copy of the survey report to their previous address. 
Lloyds acknowledged they hadnt given the surveyors the correct address and sent Mr G 
and Mrs G £300 to compensate them for the data breach that occurred. Im not aware of any 
detriment caused to Mr G and Mrs G, although I understand their concerns personal 
information was shared and their strength of feeling that this should not have happened. 
Mrs G has told us a compensation payment of £500 was made by Lloyds. I understand 
mortgage documentation was also sent to the wrong place. I dont comment here on whether 
the payment of £500 was sufficient to put that issue right as well since thats not part of this 
complaint. But Im satisfied the £300 payment was fair to reflect the impact of Lloyds 
mistake in failing to give the surveyors the right address to send the survey to. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr G and Mrs G will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to accept or reject 
my decision before 21 July 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman