DRN-3318121
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer Aviva Insurance Limited as when he got his 
car repaired following its paintwork being damaged, he was charged an extra £250 excess.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to Aviva when his cars paintwork was damaged. Aviva said he could 
select one of its repairers. But Mr S was concerned about his anti-corrosion warranty for the 
manufacturer which still had six years left to run. Aviva said its work shouldnt invalidate the 
warranty  but his dealer told him otherwise. Aviva said if he got the work done at a garage 
that wasnt on its approved list, his claim would be subject to a further £250 excess. Mr S felt 
caught between Aviva and his dealer. Whilst Aviva told him after his car was booked to go to 
the dealer for repair, that its garage would guarantee its repairs, that didnt reassure Mr S 
that his anti-corrosion warranty wouldnt be invalidated. Mr S used his dealer for the repair, 
his extra excess was deducted from the settlement Aviva paid and Mr S complained. 
Other than offering Mr S £75 because it accepted it hadnt called him back when promised, 
Aviva wasnt prepared to do anything else. Mr S wanted the £250 extra excess refunded, so 
he complained to us.
Our investigator noted that Mr Ss policy explains that where a warranty is in place, and 
Aviva completes a repair, it will take on the warranty for the remainder of the term. But also 
that Aviva hadnt highlighted that to Mr S when he raised concerns with it about the effect of 
a repair by Avivas garage on his warranty. She said it should pay him the £250 excess 
amount deducted from the settlement.
Aviva said it didnt think this was fair as it had told Mr S that his warranty shouldnt be 
negatively affected by him using a non-manufacturer garage for repair. And that if he went 
ahead and used a garage of his choice, an extra excess would be charged. Which Mr S did, 
and it was. Aviva asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva let Mr S down here. He came to it with a genuine concern which Aviva could 
have answered simply by referring him to his policy terms. Those terms, as our investigator 
noted, explain that, where Aviva completes repairs, it will, effectively, take on any remaining 
warranty liability that exists in respect of the area repaired. So it wasnt fair for Aviva to 
merely say to Mr S that his warranty shouldnt be affected. And whilst I note that in a later 
call Aviva told Mr S that it would guarantee its repairs, that wasnt really entirely pertinent 
advice either. 
I also note that Aviva, in an email to Mr S, which it assures us was sent, did set out that 
warranties are often not affected by using non-manufacturer garages, as long as 
manufacturer approved parts and methods are used. But as I said above, that wasnt really 
reasonable advice for Mr S in this circumstance (given the policy wording that could simply 
have been referred to). And Im not sure he would really have paid that part of the email 
much attention anyway as it comes under a sub-heading that refers to what your finance 
company says about repairs. And Mr Ss concern wasnt related to what his finance 
company, if indeed he had one, was saying.
Im satisfied that if Mr S had been given more pertinent and accurate advice by Aviva, hed 
have made a different decision about where to complete the repairs to his car. As such it 
stands to reason that Aviva cant reasonably keep the extra £250 excess charged against 
the settlement for his use of his choice of garage. I think it should refund this to him.
It can be frustrating when a call back isnt received when promised. But that isnt something 
I would usually award compensation for. And I note that Mr Ss main concern here has been 
that he felt Aviva taking the extra excess was unfair. In the circumstances Im satisfied that 
requiring Aviva to pay this back is a fair and reasonable remedy to the complaint Mr S has 
made. Im not going to award him compensation on top  he was caused some minor 
frustration by Avivas decision, but it didnt stop him being able to repair his car.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay Mr S £250 as reimbursement of the extra policy excess it deducted 
from his claim settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman