DRN-2118433
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr F. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. Mr F 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr F has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Mr F filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and there is a 
tick in the box to show acceptance of it. Although it isnt totally clear from the copy, it does 
look as though there is another box you tick if dont want PPI  this hasnt been ticked.
Mr F says with absolute certainty that this was not his tick. He says he was aware of what 
PPI was and always ensured he never took it; also, he wasnt inclined to adopt additional 
cost. He says it is not the shape of tick he has always used, and that it is more reflective of 
the style of writing of the employee who filled in the boxes at the top of the form. He believes 
that the matter should be referred to a handwriting expert.
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this was ticked by someone else, unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. And I dont have good evidence on which to make a conclusion in Mr Fs favour.
I cant see that handwriting analysis could reasonably determine that a tick, made on one 
occasion 25 years ago, was probably not Mr Fs. I know that it can often be difficult for expert 
analysts to make firm conclusions even when there are many more letters and words to 
compare. And, even if it were shown that the tick was made by the adviser, this wouldnt 
prove that the tick wasnt added with his consent after a discussion. 
I accept that Mr F is certain that he would not have agreed to the PPI. But I cant fairly say 
that there is enough evidence to prove that this is probably true.
Ive checked for other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold, but Ive not found any:
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Fs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr F to decide whether it was suitable (assuming he was given a choice 
 which he strongly believes he wasnt).
However, AXA did need to give Mr F clear and fair information, so he could make an informed 
choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was given to Mr F. So 
Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time, on the assumption he was given a choice and agreed he wanted 
PPI, I dont think clearer information is likely to have affected that choice. I say this because 
its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer sick pay 
lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay.It also 
looks like he didnt have many alternative means to pay his living expenses and credit 
account for long, if he lost his income; and, even if he did, he could have kept that in reserve 
for longer. Also, it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman