DRN-2619112
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) delayed the transfer of 
his cash ISA to another bank.
What happened
Mr E had an ISA with Yorkshire Bank. In February 2020, when it was due to reach maturity, 
he decided to transfer it to another bank. A few days before it was due to mature, he asked 
the other bank to begin the transfer. He didnt want the transfer to happen until the ISA 
reached maturity, because he did not wish to incur an early termination fee. The other bank 
asked Yorkshire Bank to transfer the ISA, but that request was declined. The request was 
repeated a couple of days later, and this time it was accepted, and the ISA was transferred a 
few days after the maturity date.
Mr E complained to Yorkshire Bank about the original refusal to transfer the ISA. He said this 
had resulted in him having to spend half an hour on the phone to the other bank. When 
Yorkshire Bank was unable to explain what had happened, and did not provide its final 
response letter in time, Mr E brought this complaint to our Service.
Yorkshire Bank denied that it was to blame, and said that its systems had automatically 
rejected the transfer request from the other bank, so it must have been the other banks 
fault. It said that once the second transfer request had been accepted, the transfer had 
happened within its usual timescales (that is, within five working days of the maturity date). It 
said it had paid Mr E interest right up to the day of the transfer, so he had not lost out 
financially, and the refusal of the first transfer request had not actually delayed the transfer. 
Yorkshire Bank accepted that it had taken too long to provide its final response (which was 
in July).
Our investigator contacted the other bank and asked for evidence of what it had submitted to 
Yorkshire Bank. On receiving that evidence, he accepted  on the balance of probabilities  
that the other bank was not to blame, and that there had probably been some error on 
Yorkshire Banks end. He therefore upheld this complaint, but since Mr E was not out of 
pocket and the transfer had not been delayed by the error, he thought that £50 was fair 
compensation for what had gone wrong.
Yorkshire Bank accepted the investigators proposed resolution. Mr E did not. He said £50 
did not adequately reflect the inconvenience caused to him. As well as the phone call, he 
had waited 12 months to get an answer about what had happened (the investigators opinion 
having been issued in February 2021). He asked for an ombudsman to review this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Yorkshire Bank has accepted the investigators opinion that it was to blame for the 
first transfer request being declined, and because it seems to me (after checking the 
evidence submitted by both banks) that his opinion is reasonable, I have decided to adopt 
that opinion without going into that evidence in detail here. The only issue still in dispute 
between the parties is how much compensation would be fair redress for that error, and so 
I will confine my decision to that point.
Mr E contacted the third party bank on 9 February, which was 15 working days before the 
ISA maturity date of 28 February. That bank requested the transfer, and Yorkshire Bank 
rejected the request the next day, 10 February. Mr E phoned the third party bank on 12 
February, and on 13 February that bank repeated the request, which was accepted, and 
timed to occur after the maturity date so that Mr E would not be charged. The transfer was 
completed on 4 March, which was the third working day after the maturity date. The transfer 
was therefore not delayed; it would still have happened on the same day if the original 
request had been accepted. I have seen a statement showing that Mr E was paid interest up 
to 4 March, so he has not lost any money.
I therefore think that the banks error was largely harmless. The only inconvenience it directly 
caused to Mr E was the fact that it led him to call the third party bank and ask for the transfer 
to be attempted again. I think that £50 is fair compensation for that, and is in line with what 
this Service would typically award for such a thing.
I accept that Yorkshire Bank took longer than it should have done to send Mr E its final 
response, but that did not prevent him from bringing this complaint to our Service in the 
meantime (which he did in May, without the final response letter). A complaint about 
complaint-handling (as opposed to a complaint about a financial service our product) is not 
something I would usually award compensation for, and I am not going to make an exception 
in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire 
Bank) to pay Mr E £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman