DRN-2896831
The complaint
Mr C complains about HDI Global Specialty SEs (HDI) decision to decline cover for his pet 
insurance claim. 
  
What happened
Mr Cs pet dog suffered a fractured tooth which required treatment. The treatment was 
carried out by a veterinary practice who then made a claim to HDI which was declined.  
Mr C complained about HDIs decision to decline his claim and they responded and 
explained the treating veterinary practice werent able to confirm the exact cause of the 
fractured tooth. HDI said dental disease can also cause fractured teeth and Mr Cs dogs 
clinical notes showed broken tooth roots and rotten teeth needing extraction. They said there 
was no evidence the fractured tooth had been caused by an accident so they agreed with 
the decision to decline the claim.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She thought HDI had acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim and recommended they settle the claim. Mr C agreed with the 
recommendation but HDI disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is Mr Cs pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
under the heading Exclusions it says Any dental or gum Treatment will be excluded unless 
required as a direct result of an Accident or Injury to Your Pet The claim form submitted to 
HDI describes Mr Cs dogs condition as a fractured tooth. HDI declined to cover this claim 
on the basis there was no evidence the condition was caused by an accident. So, Ive looked 
into whether HDIs decision is fair and reasonable. 
  
I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge, so 
when considering such complaints, I take into account what the clinical notes show and the 
opinion of the experts. And, thats what Ive done here. 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the utmost 
care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is therefore reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and accurate representation of 
what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. The clinical notes are a 
contemporaneous account of Mr Cs dogs clinical history. 
Ive looked at the clinical notes and theres an entry on 21 December 2018 which says 
upper left carnassial rotten  recommended dental s/p and possible extraction. Then on 2 
January 2020, theres a note which says upper L carnassial rotten, needs extraction  
halitosis. also broken tooth. The dental surgery then takes place on 6 January and theres a 
note which says extract 107 and 208. 208 purulent dc and rotten roots ++, looks to have 
old # of rostral root  extracted.     
HDI have provided a dental diagram which shows the positioning of a dogs teeth using 
numbers. I can see the upper left carnassial  which is showing at 208  is one of the teeth 
which were extracted. The clinical notes do refer to the upper left carnassial being rotten and 
this is first picked up in December 2018. This is again noted by the vet on examination in 
January 2020  and is then extracted. So, Im satisfied from looking at the clinical notes, 
HDIs decision to decline to cover the tooth extraction of 208 was reasonable. 
The other tooth which was extracted is 107  this is where there is a dispute. Insurers often 
raise queries with the treating veterinary practice or other experts experienced in this type of 
work to help them assess the claim  and thats what HDI did. I think its a fair thing to do  
and its reasonable for HDI to rely on the veterinary practices comments when deciding how 
to deal with the claim. I can see HDI ask the treating vet to confirm whether the fractured 
tooth was caused due to the teeth being rotten or as a result of an accident. The veterinary 
practice respond and say they understand the tooth in question was fractured previously on 
an unknown date. They say This usually occurs due to trauma resulting from an 
accident/incident. The claim is declined by HDI and the veterinary practice email again to 
confirm the claim was due to a fractured tooth and The fracture was caused by an accident 
where [Mr Cs dog] was hit by a door. They ask HDI to reassess the claim. HDI reply and 
ask the veterinary practice to confirm how long the tooth had been broken and whether it 
was as a result of trauma or dental disease. The veterinary practice respond and say As per 
our previous two emails to you and as detailed on the patients medical history, we do not 
know the exact cause of the tooth fracture or when this occurred.       
HDI say the medical evidence doesnt support the claim. Their claim notes say theres no 
evidence of an accident and the fact it was the roots that were broken suggest dental 
disease. I am declining as policy wording exclusion. HDI refer to the veterinary practices 
comment that a fractured tooth usually occurs due to an accident. They say that doesnt 
mean that was the cause in this particular claim. I agree with HDI here that saying something 
is a common cause doesnt demonstrate it happened in this particular case. I have however 
carefully considered HDIs points, but Im not persuaded these provide reasonable grounds 
for them to decline the claim. 
The clinical notes are very clear about attributing the need to extract tooth 208 down to it 
being rotten. But, theres no such link made with tooth 107. The clinical notes dont refer to 
any other teeth being rotten or requiring extraction for this reason. The first mention in the 
clinical notes of tooth 107 requiring extraction is on 2 January 2020. In this note, the vet 
records this as a broken tooth yet provides a detailed note on tooth 208 describing it as 
rotten and purulent. I believe, on the balance of probabilities, if the vet had identified similar 
conditions linked to tooth 107 then they wouldve noted this in the clinical records. The fact 
they havent leads to me conclude, its more likely than not, the reason for the extraction of 
tooth 107 wasnt down to rotten teeth or dental disease. The reference to those conditions in 
the clinical notes is specific to tooth 208 alone. When declining a claim its for an insurer to 
provide reasonable grounds to show how and why an exclusion applies, and I cant say HDI 
have done that here. So, I dont think it was reasonable for HDI to rely on the exclusion they 
have to decline the claim for the treatment to tooth 107. 
Mr C says he does recall an occasion where his dog was struck by a door  this being a few 
weeks before the fracture was identified by the vet. Mr C says his dog didnt seem bothered 
by it at the time so he didnt think any more about it. It was then in January 2020, when the 
vet noticed it, that he recalled this incident. I dont doubt Mr Cs testimony here as its understandable he wouldnt have taken any action at the time if he couldnt see his dog 
under any distress. And, the evidence of the fractured tooth shows there was an incident. 
The policy provides cover in the event Mr Cs dog requires dental treatment as a direct result 
of an accident or injury. I agree with HDIs point that, while the veterinary practice say the 
fracture was caused by Mr Cs dog being hit by a door, this isnt mentioned in the clinical 
notes. But the fact remains this is an opinion that has been formed by the veterinary 
practice. And, it is the same veterinary practice that saw Mr Cs dog and then dealt with the 
diagnosis and treatment. So, I think its reasonable to place more weight on the information 
provided by them. 
I accept the veterinary practice later say they dont know the exact cause of the tooth 
fracture but its clear, when they sent the previous email, they felt Mr Cs dog being hit by a 
door was a reasonable explanation for the fractured tooth. Had they not felt this at any point, 
given the regulatory obligation for all information to be accurate, I dont think they would 
have offered this as an explanation. Additionally, while its not clear why the veterinary 
practice changed their opinion to say they dont know the exact cause, they havent at any 
point confirmed that an accident is no longer the probable cause. And, having examined the 
fractured tooth after the event, its not unreasonable for the veterinary practice to not know 
the exact cause or be precise about when it occurred. Its clear though that they feel an 
accident is a reasonable explanation  and I havent seen anything which casts any 
significant doubt on this.      
Ive already set out why I dont think the exclusion HDI have relied on, applies here. And, 
while I have considered the arguments from both parties about whether the fractured tooth 
was caused by an accident, the information I have seen doesnt point to any other reason. 
So, taking this all into account, I think its more likely than not, the fractured tooth wasnt 
caused by the exclusion applied by HDI. And, I believe on the balance of probabilities, the 
fractured tooth was caused by an accident or injury.      
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that HDI acted unfairly in declining Mr Cs claim so they should refund the 
fees Mr C has paid for the treatment to tooth 107 together with 8% interest per year simple 
from the date Mr C paid, until the date his claim is settled. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HDI Global Specialty SE must: 
Refund the fees paid by Mr C for the claim relating to tooth 107 subject to the 
remaining policy terms and limits; and  
Pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year* from the date Mr C paid 
until the date of settlement
* HM Revenue & Customs requires HDI Global Specialty SE to take off tax from this interest. 
HDI Global Specialty SE must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman