DRN-3550534
The complaint
Mrs R complains Metro Bank PLC allowed one of its customers accounts to be used to 
receive fraudulently obtained funds. Shed like to be reimbursed £306,000 which she says 
she lost as the result of an alleged scam. 
Mrs R is represented in this complaint by her daughter  Mrs A. But for ease of reading, Ill 
mostly refer to relevant acts and comments as being Mrs Rs.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2019 Mrs R was introduced to an investment opportunity through a financial 
adviser shed previously used. The investment was a secured loan note in a property 
development company, who Ill refer to as M. Mrs R says she carried out checks before she 
agreed to the investment. Part of those checks included visiting Ms registered address 
where she met with one of its directors. She initially agreed to invest for a six-month period 
and transferred a sum of £306,000 from her own bank  N to an account held with 
Metro Bank. 
The investment matured in August 2019 at which point Mrs R says the investment was worth 
around £320,000 (inclusive of interest earnt). She withdrew a small amount of around £6,300 
which was paid into her bank account with N, and she agreed to re-invest the remainder for 
a further six months. When Mrs R eventually received confirmation of her investment, which 
she was told had been delayed due to the pandemic. She noticed the maturity date for her 
investment was not six months as agreed  it was longer. Then in January 2021 she 
received an email from M informing her that it had sought insolvency advice. She tried to 
withdraw further funds from her investment but was unable to do so. Eventually in 
September 2021 a winding up order was issued for M. 
Mrs R reported the matter to N as an investment scam. N informed Metro Bank, who said no 
money remained which could be returned. Mrs R complained to Metro Bank. It didnt uphold 
her complaint. It said there had been no bank error and confirmed that it had taken remedial 
action to prevent a reoccurrence in the future. 
Mrs R remained unhappy. She believes that Metro Bank has likely failed in its obligations as 
a regulated firm which has caused her loss. She referred the matter to our service. Our 
Investigator explained there were limits to what we could consider, and we couldnt look into 
Metro Banks actions when opening the beneficiary account. For what we could consider she 
concluded that Metro Bank had not missed any opportunities to identify and prevent fraud; 
and that it had responded appropriately upon receipt of notification of fraud from N. Mrs R 
disagrees, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mrs R, but I dont think I can fairly say Metro Bank should reimburse her 
loss. Ill explain why. 
Most of Mrs Rs submissions centre around M  and its malpractice. I can see she feels 
strongly that it shouldnt be allowed to get away with this. But I cant investigate M. My role 
here is limited to considering whether Metro Bank (not M) has done anything wrong and, if 
so, whether Mrs R has lost out as a result.
Mrs R argues that M were only able to defraud innocent investors as Metro Bank failed in its 
regulatory obligations, which require it to have systems in place to facilitate the ongoing 
monitoring of its customers accounts. She thinks Metro Bank ought to have detected the 
significant sums being passed through the account and has failed to investigate this activity. 
She says it shouldve done more to prevent its accountholder from operating unethically. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs R has said but Im satisfied the payment she made and 
the dispersing of those funds was in line with the expected activity for the type of account 
that received the funds and its normal operation. As such, I dont think Metro Bank ought 
reasonably to have had concerns where Id have expected it to have intervened before 
Mrs Rs funds were paid away. Im also satisfied there wasnt anything that Id reasonably 
have expected Metro Bank to have acted upon prior to Mrs Rs funds arriving. So, I cant 
fairly conclude that Metro Bank have missed an opportunity to prevent Mrs Rs loss.
Mrs R didnt report this to N until February 2021  two years after shed made the payment. 
Im satisfied that Metro Banks response to N was appropriate and it correctly advised no 
funds remained that could be returned. I dont think there were any failings at this point by 
Metro Bank that prevented Mrs R recovering her money.   
In response to the Investigators outcome Mrs R listed several other reasons for why she 
feels Metro Bank should refund her loss. Id like to assure Mrs R Ive considered all of these, 
but none provide me a basis upon which I can fairly direct Metro Bank to refund the sum she 
has lost. 
Im truly sorry to hear about the situation that Mrs R has found herself in, and I can, of 
course, appreciate the significant impact these events have had on both her financial 
wellbeing and her health. But I cant fairly ask Metro Bank to do more as Im satisfied it 
couldnt reasonably have prevented Mrs Rs loss or done more to assist with the recovery of 
her funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman