DRN-2887071
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell him it doesnt accept cheques in 
foreign currencies when he switched bank accounts. Mr C complains that, as a result, he lost 
out on an exchange rate when he had to make alternative arrangements to pay in a cheque 
issued in dollars. 
What happened
In June 2019 Nationwide carried out an online interview with Mr C to switch his current 
account. During the interview, Mr C explained he receives a pension from another country 
that is paid in sterling. The call handler and Mr C discussed arrangements for ensuring Mr C 
continued to receive his pension. 
The account switch completed and a new account was opened for Mr C. 
In October 2020 Mr C tried to pay in a foreign currency cheque. But Nationwide said it can 
only accept cheques in sterling, in line with its account terms. Mr C complained and said 
Nationwide didnt make its position clear when he applied for the account, despite discussing 
income he receives from another country. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint about the foreign currency cheque he tried to 
deposit. Nationwide paid Mr C £50 to apologise for poor service when responding to his 
complaint.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Nationwide had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.
Mr C asked to appeal and acknowledged the account terms didnt allow for foreign currency 
cheques to be deposited. But Mr C said Nationwide shouldve made it clear foreign currency 
cheques werent permitted because he asked about regular foreign currency receipts during 
his account interview. Mr C also said he believes Nationwides practices are at odds with 
other businesses. As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has confirmed hes aware the terms note its not possible to deposit a foreign currency 
cheque into the Nationwide account. So all parties agree that Nationwide has acted in line 
with the terms and conditions Mr C accepted when he opened his account. I appreciate Mr C 
feels Nationwide shouldve specifically told him it doesnt accept foreign currency cheques 
given he asked about receiving other payments from abroad. 
Ive considered whether Nationwide should specifically have highlighted the section of its 
terms that sets out its approach to foreign currency cheques based on Mr Cs account 
interview. Ive listened to the interview process. I can hear Mr C asked about receiving a 
monthly pension payment from another country. But Mr C told Nationwide that income was 
paid in sterling, not a foreign currency. I note Mr C did ask about receiving payments from 
abroad, but at no point did he ask Nationwide whether it was possible to deposit a foreign 
currency cheque. Having listened to the interview, I didnt hear anything that wouldve led 
Nationwide to realise Mr C intended to use his account for that purpose. 
Mr C says the terms and long and the information about foreign currency cheques is buried. 
Mr C has advised he didnt have the chance to review the terms before opening his account. 
But, if depositing a foreign currency cheque was important to Mr C, I think Nationwide could 
reasonably have expected him to ask about it during the interview process. 
Ive looked at the terms but dont agree the information about foreign currency cheques is 
buried. Within Nationwides terms and conditions under the section How to use your 
account it notes the various forms of payment that can be received. And the terms 
specifically say in a separate box We do not accept cheques in a foreign currency. I 
thought the information regarding Nationwides approach was clearly set out within the 
terms. 
During the account interview the call handler offered to run through the terms with Mr C but 
he declined. Mr C said he would review them at home. Whilst I agree the call handler didnt 
run through the full terms, Mr C confirmed he was happy to review them independently. 
I understand Mr C had to make other arrangements to deposit his cheque and says 
Nationwide operates differently to other businesses. But Nationwide is free to decide how it 
operates and what services to provide. The account terms and conditions set out what 
services are provided and they specifically say Nationwide doesnt accept foreign currency 
cheques. Whilst other businesses may take a different approach, Im satisfied Nationwide 
has acted in line with its standard approach to foreign currency cheques and the relevant 
account terms. 
Nationwide paid Mr C £50 to apologise for poor service when responding to his complaint. 
Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint, so Im not telling Nationwide to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman