DRN-2017835
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Black Horse Limited wouldnt let her pay off her hire purchase 
agreement using a credit card.
What happened
Miss S took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in April 2016 for a used car. 
The agreement was for £14,378.50. It was to be repaid over four years at £225.07 a month, 
with a final payment of £6,600.
 
In January 2020, Black Horse wrote to Miss S reminding her that her agreement would be 
ending a few months later. It outlined her options. These were; change her car for another 
one; keep the car by making the final payment; or return her car. Miss S told us that, as she 
wanted to keep the car, she took out a 0% credit card. She said she was going to use this to 
make the final payment for the car.
 
In March 2020, Miss S went online to repay her loan in full using this credit card. She told us 
she then she saw a message on Black Horses payment screen saying it couldnt accept 
payment by credit card. Miss S wasnt happy with this and complained to Black Horse. She 
said the letter shed received a few months earlier didnt say it wouldnt accept payment by 
credit card.
 
Black Horse didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. Briefly, it said no error had been made  it 
hadnt accepted payments by credit card since 2014. Black Horse also said while the letter it 
sent to Miss S didnt specify what payment methods were acceptable, it was arranging for 
this letter to be changed going forward.
 
Miss S didnt accept Black Horses response. So she brought her complaint to our service. 
Miss S told us she had to use her credit card to withdraw cash so she could make the final 
payment to Black Horse, along with dipping into her savings which were earmarked for a 
holiday. Miss S said using her credit card to withdraw cash incurred a 4% fee. She told us 
she wants to be reimbursed for this fee, along with the holiday money she had to use, and to 
also be compensated for the stress and inconvenience this situation put her under.
 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. 
In short, he said: Black Horse hadnt made an error; and, when Miss S took out the 
agreement, Black Horse sent her a welcome pack which stated it couldnt accept payments 
by credit card.
 
Miss S wasnt happy with this. She said if Black Horses reminder letter in January 2020 had 
set out what methods of payment were acceptable, she would have known she couldnt use 
her credit card and she could have researched alternative repayment methods. 
This didnt change our investigators view. So, as this matter remains unresolved, its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: has Black Horse done anything wrong by not letting Miss S use 
her credit card to repay her loan?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Turning to what payment methods Black Horse will accept, Im satisfied this an internal 
matter for it to decide. Its under no obligation at all to accept payments by credit card. Ive 
looked at Black Horses records. These show Miss S was sent a welcome pack shortly after 
she took out the agreement. This pack clearly stated Black Horse wasnt able to accept 
payments by credit card. This information was also available on the customer account 
section of its website. So, Im satisfied Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably by setting out 
this position from the outset. 
Miss S says its not reasonable to expect a customer to remember details from four years 
previously. But I would point out that Black Horse never told her it could accept payments by 
credit card. Miss S told our investigator her repayment options should have been clearly 
articulated in its letter to her in January 2020. She said that was the whole purpose of the 
letter. Im not satisfied thats right. 
The purpose of the letter was to outline Miss Ss options about what she could do with the 
car at the end of her hire purchase agreement. It wasnt to set out how she could pay off her 
agreement if she wanted to keep the car. While Miss S wanted to keep it, this was just one 
of her three options. So I dont agree the whole purpose of the letter was to tell her how she 
could repay her agreement. 
Miss S says Black Horse has told her it will be making changes to the letters it sends to 
customers coming to the end of their agreement to include acceptable payment methods.  
She told us this suggests Black Horse acknowledges it wasnt fit for purpose. I dont agree. 
Just because Black Horse may be making improvements to this letter, this doesnt mean its 
done anything wrong. Nor does it mean Miss S was treated unfairly and unreasonably 
because the letter she received didnt specifically state payments by credit card were 
unacceptable. 
As above, the information Black Horse sent to Miss S shortly after she took out the 
agreement did make it clear it didnt accept credit card payments, as did its website. I would 
also point out that Miss S could have contacted Black Horse at any time to check if she 
could use a credit card. At no point did it tell her she could use a credit card.
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied Black Horse hasnt done anything wrong by 
not letting Miss S use her credit card to repay her loan. So, theres no basis for me to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman