DRN-4399276
The complaint
Miss K and Mr W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Miss K and Mr W had a single trip travel insurance policy to cover their trip abroad from 
22 June to 8 July 2022. Great Lakes insured the relevant travel insurance sections.
On 5 July 2022 Great Lakes was contacted by Mr Ws mother to say he was on the trip and 
had Covid-19. Great Lakes spoke to Miss K and a hospital medical test confirmed Mr W had 
Covid-19. Under local regulations he needed to isolate for 14 days. On 6 July Great Lakes 
emailed Mr W to say their claim was covered. However, on 18 July Great Lakes told Mr W 
that as he wasnt vaccinated against Covid-19 the claim would only be covered if he could 
provide proof of exemption from the vaccination.
Miss K and Mr W complained to Great Lakes but didnt get a response so they complained 
to us. In summary they said:
Great Lakes had told them they were covered so they were confused why it later 
changed its mind.
Great Lakes telling Mr W to take a Covid-19 test caused them loss of earnings as 
they couldnt return to the UK as scheduled, which caused them personal financial 
problems. And they owe money to Mr Ws mother as shed paid their return flight. 
Theyd been caused a lot of stress by Great Lakes not paying their costs.
Great Lakes told them not to change the date of their original flight as it would handle 
the flight closer to the time they were going to leave. But if they had changed the 
original flight they would have saved thousands of pounds in flight costs.
Great Lakes wouldn't send them any money for food and travel while they were 
abroad which reduced the money they had to travel back to the UK.
They took out the insurance in case of an emergency so even if they werent covered 
for Covid-19 the general insurance should cover their flight home and loss of 
earnings.
They want Great Lakes to acknowledge its mistake and at least pay their return flight.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had fairly declined their claim. But she recommended 
Great Lakes pay Miss K and Mr W £100 compensation for their loss of expectation and their 
distress and inconvenience its wrong information caused.
Great Lakes accepted our investigators recommendation. Miss K and Mr W didnt accept 
and want an ombudmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I think Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim but I dont think it handled the claim fairly. 
It should pay Miss K and Mr W £100 compensation for their loss of expectation and their 
distress and inconvenience Great Lakes caused. Ill explain why.
The policy covers some costs, as set out in the policy terms, if Mr W had a medically 
approved test showing a positive result for Covid-19. But the policy specifically excludes:
any claim where you contract Covid-19 and you have not had the recommended 
vaccination(s) (consideration will be given where you were medically unable to have 
the vaccination, and this is shown on your medical records).
Thats a common exclusion in travel insurance policies. Mr W has said he wasnt vaccinated 
for Covid-19, and he hasnt shown he was medically unable to be vaccinated. So I think 
Great Lakes ultimately correctly declined the claim under the policy terms.
However, its clear from Great Lakes internal notes that it emailed Mr W on 6 July saying 
cover was in place for his claim, which was wrong information. It was only on 18 July that 
Miss K and Mr W were notified they needed to make and pay for their own flight 
arrangements when Great Lakes raised the issue of Mr Ws vaccination status.
Miss K and Mr W were understandably upset and worried when Great Lakes said it wasnt 
going to cover the claim after all. Great Lakes had wrongly raised Miss K and Mr Ws 
expectations that the claim would be covered. And they had the stress of arranging their own 
return flight at short notice. 
But I think the £100 compensation for their loss of expectation and their distress and 
inconvenience, caused by Great Lakes giving the wrong information about cover, is a 
reasonable amount. 
I dont think Great Lakes need to pay more compensation or the costs of Miss K and Mr Ws 
return flight, as they request. Thats because:
Great Lakes hasnt provided the recordings of the calls it had with Miss K and Mr W 
but it has provided notes of the communications it had with them. The notes show 
that on 7 July Mr W asked it to arrange a return flight for 20 July, which would take 
into account the local regulations to them needing to isolate for 14 days. On 11 July 
Great Lakes emailed Mr W saying that when it became close to the end of his 
isolation period it would book the new flight. Theres no record of Great Lakes telling 
Miss K and Mr W not to alter their original flight home which was on 7 July. And given 
the timings I think its unlikely Great Lakes would have told them not to alter the 
original flight as Miss K and Mr W clearly werent able to take the original flight. 
As Mr W had tested positive for Covid-19 the local regulations meant he had to 
isolate for 14 days. Im sorry that as Mr W wasnt able to return on the original date 
he had loss of earnings which led to financial problems. But I dont think Great Lakes 
was responsible for him missing his original return flight as it was the local 
regulations for isolation which meant he couldnt return as planned. The policy 
doesnt cover any loss of earnings.
The policy provides a confinement benefit if Mr W is self-isolated in his holiday 
accommodation by a relevant government authority due to testing positive for Covid-19. But thats only if the claim was covered, and Miss K and Mr W claim wasnt 
covered. Even though for a time Great Lakes thought Mr W was covered the benefit 
isnt generally sent to a policyholder at the time of isolation, but paid as part of a 
claim payment at a later date. So Great Lakes acted reasonably in not sending Mr W 
money when he was in isolation.
Miss K and Mr W say that even if they werent covered for Covid-19 the general 
insurance should cover them for their flight home and loss of earnings. But insurance 
contracts dont cover every eventuality and an insurer is able to decide the risks its 
prepared to cover, which the policy sets out as insured events within each policy 
section. As Ive said, the policy doesnt cover loss of earnings and it only covers the 
additional costs of flight home in specific circumstances detailed in the policy terms. 
The costs of the return flight in Miss K and Mr Ws circumstances arent covered by 
any part of the policy. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Miss K and Mr W £100 compensation for their loss of expectation and 
the distress and inconvenience it caused, as its now agreed to do.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Miss K and Mr W 
£100 compensation for their loss of expectation and their distress and inconvenience it 
caused, which Great Lakes Insurance SE has now agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman