DRN-4300656
Complaint
Miss W has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Miss W with a loan for £500 in July 2020. This loan had an APR of 1,013.2% 
and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £114.28. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ws complaint and he thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss W unfairly. So he didnt think that Miss Ws complaint should 
be upheld. Miss W disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 31 July 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 31 July 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Miss Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Miss Ws complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss W could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G argued that its assessment was proportionate. But I was mindful that Miss Ws income 
was significantly lower that shed declared. And the credit check it carried out also showed 
that Miss W had a number of defaults, late payments and other accounts in arrangements to 
pay. 
So it was clear to me that Miss W didnt fit the profile of the average borrower and I was 
persuaded by what Miss W had said about already being in a difficult financial position at the 
time. I did accept that it was possible Miss Ws credit file reflected her choices rather than 
financial difficulties. But I explained that my experience of these types of cases suggested 
that this was unlikely. In any event, I was satisfied that further checks would more like than 
not have shown that Miss W wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without experiencing 
undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
All of this left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss W. And as L2G 
provided Miss W with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss W had ended up paying (and was still being expected to pay) interest, fees and 
charges on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So I set out that I was intending to 
issue a final decision which found that Miss W lost out because of what L2G did wrong and 
that it should put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss W didnt provide anything further in response to my provisional decision.
L2G confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It said that it had nothing further to add 
and that it would await my final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Ws complaint in my provisional 
decision of 31 July 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Miss Ws 
complaint and I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss W
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Miss W by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss W made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £500 originally lent. If Miss W has 
already repaid more than £500 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss W;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss W to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ws credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-party 
debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account and it 
is the case that Miss W is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 31 July 2023, Im 
upholding Miss Ws complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman