DRN-4121299
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about esure Insurance Limited (esure) for delays in handling their 
claim and for not reimbursing their alternative accommodation costs in good time. They want 
esure to reimburse them for these additional costs. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K insured their home with esure.
In May 2022, they suffered an escape of water. They submitted a claim to esure and esure 
appointed its agent to handle the claim.
Strip out works were begun, and the kitchen and bathroom were unavailable. Esure 
therefore agreed with Mr K and Mrs K that they should find alternative accommodation while 
the works continued. 
They did this and found an alternative which cost around £700 per week. Esure initially paid 
for this, along with £40 per day disturbance allowance. 
The claim did not progress quickly, and it appears that works ceased for periods after the 
property was dry. Mr K and Mrs K made efforts to chase progress and the delays were not 
due to them. 
Around September 2022, esure contacted Mr K and Mrs K and advised that their claim was 
being reviewed. As a result, esure ceased payments for the alternative accommodation. As 
Mr K and Mrs K were still unable to return home, they had to privately pay for their 
alternative accommodation, including by taking out a loan. 
Esure did not contact them further about the review and Mr K and Mrs K complained. They 
felt that the delays were outside their control, and it was unfair to stop the alternative 
accommodation payments without them being able to return home. 
Esure responded to the complaint in December 2022. It upheld the complaint and agreed to 
reimburse the alternative accommodation costs to Mr K and Mrs K. It also offered them £200 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Mr K and Mrs K were not happy about this. The works at their home had still not been 
completed and they were again having to fund the costs of accommodation as the delays 
extended. They contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
They felt that Esure should reimburse the costs of accommodation that have been incurred 
and pay the disturbance allowance in addition. They also thought that interest should be 
added to the reimbursement, and esure should pay a further £400 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
That view has been shared with the parties. Mr K and Mrs K agreed to it. Esure has not 
responded to the view and has not accepted it. The decision has therefore been passed for 
an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is very little dispute here. Mr K and Mrs K have made their claim in good faith and 
have done all that they could to move matters on, including by moving into alternative 
accommodation to allow the works to progress. 
There is no suggestion here that the delays which have occurred are unavoidable, or that 
they are Mr K and Mrs Ks fault, and esure appears to accept that the delays were due to its 
agent not progressing the works. 
As Mr K and Mrs K have acted reasonably throughout, it is not fair for them to incur 
substantial debts or liabilities, when these are beyond their control. 
I therefore agree with my colleague that the complaint should be upheld and that esure 
should reimburse all costs of alternative accommodation which the family has incurred, and 
continues to incur, up until they can move back home. I understand that a settlement has 
been agreed to allow works to progress, and Mr K and Mrs K will hopefully soon be able to 
move home. 
As the costs of alternative accommodation will have been paid out by Mr K and Mrs K and 
will need to be reimbursed, I agree that interest ought to be added. This is to reflect that it 
prevented Mr K and Mrs K from using their money as they wished for this time. 
I also agree that the disturbance allowance should be paid for the duration of the works, until 
they are able to move back into the home, with a working kitchen and bathroom. 
Finally, I agree that they have been caused substantial distress and inconvenience by the 
delays in both the works and in meeting payments. I agree that they should be paid £600 
compensation in total to reflect their distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, Mr K and Mrs K should, within 28 days of this decision 
becoming binding, provide details to esure of the costs they have incurred and expended in 
respect of alternative accommodation. This should include rent, any non-refundable deposits 
or other expenses, and any costs of loans they have had to take on to pay for the 
accommodation. Esure may ask for reasonable evidence of these costs. 
Esure should then reimburse those costs, along with 8% interest from the dates when the 
costs were paid, up until the date of settlement;
Esure should continue to pay a sum equivalent to the cost of alternative accommodation up 
until Mr K and Mrs K are able to move back into their home. This is currently expected to be 
early August 2023, but the parties should remain in contact about this in case of any 
unavoidable delays;
Esure should pay disturbance allowance to Mr K and Mrs K for the period while they are in 
alternative accommodation, at the rate of £40 per day; and
Esure should pay to Mr K and Mrs K a total of £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint and direct esure to:
Reimburse all costs of alternative accommodation which Mr K and Mrs K have 
incurred to date; along with interest at a rate of 8% per annum. 
Continue to pay for alternative accommodation until they are able to return home; 
Pay disturbance allowance at a rate of £40 per day until Mr K and Mrs K are able to 
return home; and
Pay to them a total of £600 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman