DRN-1575305
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs M complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) wont meet a claim they made on their 
home insurance, after their septic tank and pipework was damaged.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M installed a new septic tank at their home in 2014. It was installed by Mr M and 
a family member who installed such tanks as part of his normal work.
Mr and Mrs M had the tank emptied by a reputable contractor for three years. On the fourth 
occasion, in 2018, about an hour after it was emptied, the septic tank popped out of the 
ground. That means the entire tank rose up, the attached pipes were broken and sewage 
began to seep out into the surrounding ground.
Mr and Mrs M approached QIC. They said they thought the damage was accidental, and 
QIC agreed to consider the claim. Mr and Mrs M provided QIC with a report from a drainage 
specialist explaining that the tank had likely been affected by hydrostatic pressure, which 
caused the damage. The report went on to give several examples of similar damage that 
had occurred in tanks installed using different methods.
QIC appointed its own specialist to review this report. It then rejected the claim, relying on 
an exclusion in Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy, which it thought applied to two things. The 
first was that the contractor emptying the tank probably hadnt done his job properly, 
because it appeared he might not have re-primed the tank (as QIC thinks he should have). 
The second was that the tank hadnt been installed properly in 2014, because it had been 
embedded in gravel rather than concrete.  QIC said if the tank had been surrounded in 
concrete it wouldnt have popped even if the contractor hadnt re-primed the tank.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She looked at 
guidelines from the manufacturer of the tank  which suggested the tank should have had a 
concrete case around it. She also took note of the fact that the manufacturer said a gravel 
surround was a permissible way of installing the tank when it was installed, if the ground was 
dry. She didnt think the tank had been installed incorrectly.
She also looked at what had happened on the day the tank was emptied. She noted that the 
contractor didnt remember if he re-primed this particular tank as he emptied several each 
day. She didnt think that QIC could rely on this to decline the claim.
Our investigator also thought QICs actions had caused Mr and Mrs M considerable distress 
and inconvenience and that QIC should pay £150 compensation for this.
QIC hasnt accepted this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator did.
When a claim is made, its for a customer to show that whats called an insured event has 
happened. Those events are defined in Mr and Mrs Ms policy. The most relevant one for 
this claim appears to be accidental damage. Thats something that happens at a specific 
time, isnt deliberate and has an external cause.
Mr and Mrs M have given us a specific time for the damage to the tank, and I cant see how 
they could have deliberately damaged a tank buried in the ground, so its fair to say it wasnt 
deliberately damaged. Mr and Mrs M have provided a report from a specialist that suggests 
the damage is typical of that caused by hydrostatic pressure. That's an example of an 
external force.
I think Mr and Mrs M have fairly established this was accidental damage.
QIC has given two reasons why it need not meet this claim. If it wants to do this, then the 
onus is on QIC to show that one of the exclusions in the policy applies.
I dont think its done that. 
The exclusion QIC is relying on is that there was poor workmanship, design or materials. If it 
can fairly show me one of these applies, it would be reasonable for QIC to say it wont meet 
the claim. QIC thinks this exclusion actually applies twice.
QIC says that its likely the company that drained the tank on the day the damage occurred 
didnt follow the correct procedures for safely emptying the tank.  It says this must be so 
because the operator doesnt remember if he re-primed the tank. I think theres some doubt 
on this point  the operator hasnt said he didnt re-prime the tank  just that he doesnt 
remember either way.
QIC goes on to say that the companys own instructions dont say that tanks must be re-
primed, although the British Water Trade Association says they should be. I havent seen the 
companys internal instructions, so I cant say what reference they make to re-priming. I have 
looked at the British Water website  and the guidelines say tanks should be re-primed as 
soon as possible especially if theres a water table nearby. Theres no suggestion there was 
a water table nearby when the tank was installed, or that there is one now. Mr and Mrs M 
had taken care to choose a company that has a good reputation and is a member of the 
British Water Trade Association, so its likely it would follow the guidelines. And theyd had 
the tank emptied without trouble several times before by the same company. That suggests 
its operators carry out this procedure satisfactorily, and I haven't seen enough evidence for 
me to fairly conclude it didnt on this occasion.
QIC also says the tank was installed incorrectly. It says this is so because the manufacturers 
recommended method of installation wasnt followed. Thats because when the tank was 
installed it was surrounded with a gravel infill, rather than a concrete enclosure. Im not 
persuaded by this argument for several reasons. QIC hasnt carried out its own survey of 
what happened to Mr and Mrs Ms tank. Instead its had one of its contractors review a report 
provided by Mr and Mrs M and made counter arguments about the contents. And although I 
accept the manufacturer says the installation should involve a concrete shroud, the 
manufacturer has also said that a gravel infill system was an acceptable installation method 
in 2014 (when the tank was installed), providing the ground was dry. Mr and Mrs M say the ground was dry  they describe it as bone dry and I see no reason to doubt that. I dont 
think QIC has shown me Mr and Mrs M had the tank installed incorrectly.
QIC has also said that if the tank had been installed with a concrete shroud it wouldn't have 
"popped" out of the ground, even if the contractor hadn't re-primed it. That's because QIC 
thinks a concrete surround around the tank would have prevented the damage. I don't think 
that's necessarily the case, given that Mr and Mrs Ms report contains details of several 
tanks with similar damage that were shrouded in concrete.
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded QIC can fairly say the exclusion applies.
Putting things right
To put things right QIC should meet Mr and Mrs Ms claim, subject to any other terms and 
clauses (like an excess, for example) that are in Mr and Mrs Ms policy. And I agree that 
QIC's actions have caused Mr and Mrs M some distress and anxiety, so it's appropriate it 
also pays them £150 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order QIC Europe Ltd to meet Mr and Mrs 
M's claim, subject to any other relevant terms and conditions. It must also pay Mr and Mrs M 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it's caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Susan Peters
Ombudsman