DRN-3984701
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold a long-term holiday product. Because the 
purchase of that product was financed with a loan from Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to Mr 
S, they say that it is liable to him for the actions of the seller. Mr and Mrs are represented by 
a claims management company, which Ill refer to as L.
What happened
In January 2011 Mr and Mrs S bought a trial membership of a points based holiday club. In 
October 2011 they upgraded their membership. In both cases the purchase was financed by 
a loan made to Mr S; the first loan was refinanced by the second.
In March 2021 L, on behalf of Mr and Mrs S, complained to Mitsubishi. It said, in summary, 
that its clients had been induced by misrepresentations into making the purchase, that the 
agreement with the timeshare company was null and void and that, as a result, the loan 
agreement was as well.
Mitsubishi did not uphold the complaint, and so L referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. She was broadly in agreement with 
Mitsubishi and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. L did not agree and so the 
matter was passed to me for further consideration.
I considered all the evidence and arguments and issued a provisional decision. In that 
decision, I said:
Eligible complainant
First, the loan agreements were both in Mr Ss sole name, although the holiday club 
membership was in joint names. Since only Mr S has a relationship with Mitsubishi, he is the 
only person eligible to refer this complaint to the ombudsman, and my provisional decision 
should be read in that light.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
L says that the loan was not suitable for Mr S and that Mitsubishi has not shown that it 
assessed the affordability or suitability of the loan. Given the time that has passed since the 
loan was taken out, I do not find that particularly surprising. L has not however provided 
anything to show that the loan was not affordable.
I note that L has referred to the rules and guidance in CONC, the part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook which deals with consumer credit. Since the loan pre-dates 
the FCAs regulation of consumer credit activities, however, CONC did not apply at the time.
I would nevertheless expect lenders at the time to have assessed the affordability of loans in 
line with guidance issued by, for example, the Office of Fair Trading, the Lending Standards 
Board and the Finance and Leasing Association.
Be that as it may, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it 
is referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of 
the date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had 
cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that Mitsubishi carried out (or 
did not carry out) in October 2011. Mr S would have known fairly soon after that date if he 
was having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint should 
have been referred to this service by no later than 11 October 2017  six years from the date 
Mr S took it out. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. I am satisfied that this 
applies here and that, accordingly, statements made at the time of sale are to be taken as 
made on behalf of Mitsubishi.
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership.
Mr and Mrs Ss contract was with Club La Costa (UK) Plc (CLC), but the retailer named in 
the loan agreement was a different company within the Club La Costa group. Mr S does not 
have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against that company, because he 
has no contract with it. And it does not appear that the holiday club membership was 
financed under arrangements between CLC and Mitsubishi; any such arrangements were 
with the other company.
However, section 75 can apply where the loan is made under pre-existing arrangements 
between the creditor and an associate of the supplier, as defined by section 184 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Whether one company is an associate of another depends on who 
owns or controls them. Because it is unlikely to affect the outcome here, I have approached 
this complaint on the assumption that the two Club La Costa companies were associates, 
but it is open to either party to show if that is or is not the case.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs S into the 
contract for the upgrade of their holiday club membership were made on or before 11 
October 2011; since they had already taken out trial membership, its possible that Mr and 
Mrs S relied on what they were told or their own experiences even before that. They did not 
however raise any complaint with Mitsubishi until March 2021, nearly ten years after they upgraded their membership. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that 
any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act.
L says that the time limit is extended where there is fraud or concealment or where the 
claimant is unaware of the facts giving rise to a claim. I do not accept that the time limits in 
the Limitation Act are generally extended in the way L says. Knowledge is generally only 
relevant in negligence cases where damage does not become apparent until later  for 
example, where building work is defective. Mr and Mrs Ss claims against CLC are not 
claims in negligence, they are claims in misrepresentation.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of Mitsubishi to the claim 
under sections 56 and 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say 
that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
Illegality
L says that, following a judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court, contracts for points-based 
holiday club ownerships are unlawful as a matter of Spanish law. L says that Spanish law 
follows the 2008 Timeshare Directive, a piece of EU legislation.
I note however that Mr and Mrs Ss contract was made between them, as UK residents, and 
CLC, a UK company. It was in English, and it was priced in sterling. It was, on the face of it, 
signed in the UK. It did not involve any immovable property, either in Spain or anywhere 
else. In my view, therefore, it is likely that the contract was governed by English, not 
Spanish, law. Accordingly, the findings of a Spanish court do not appear to me to be directly 
relevant.
The EU Timeshare Directive is not directly applicable. Rather, member states have 
implemented it into their own law. In the case of the UK, the Directive was implemented by 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Regulations 2010. Those 
regulations were in part intended to extend to buyers of points-based holiday club 
memberships similar protections to those already enjoyed by timeshare purchasers. They 
did not outlaw the arrangements Mr and Mrs S bought; they regulated them. On the face of 
it, the contract which Mr and Mrs S signed was compliant with those regulations.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. I understand that the loan was repaid in 
2015, so that period may have expired by the time the complaint was made.
On the basis of what I have seen so far, however, there are no grounds on which I think a 
court is likely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship in this case.
I have already explained why I think a claim against CLC for misrepresentation is likely to be 
unsuccessful and why I do not believe the underlying contract is unlawful. L says too that the 
interest rate is so high as to be extortionate. The interest rate of 12.1% was clearly set out in 
the loan agreement and is not out of line with many other similar loans. I do not believe I can fairly say that the interest rate  in effect the price Mr S paid for the borrowing  means the 
loan agreement created an unfair relationship. 
My provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S did not accept my provisional decision. As well as repeating some of its earlier 
submissions, L said, on his behalf:
The relevant time limit is six years from the date on which the loan was repaid. The loan 
was repaid on 1 September 2015, so the claim, which was made on 8 March 2021, was 
brought in time. 
Mr and Mrs S were not provided with any of: the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association; Scheme Rules and Regulations; Information Statement. The failure to 
provide them with those documents was a breach of the Timeshare Regulations. 
The information was in any event inaccurate, in that it said that Mr and Mrs S had 
bought a trial membership, instead of listing the accommodation that was available.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first of all with the question of time limits. There are three different sets of time 
limits which are relevant here. They are:
the time limits which apply under our own rules;
those which would apply in any court action which Mr S might bring against CLC; and 
those which might apply in any court action which Mr S might bring against Mitsubishi.  
Our rules say that we can only consider a complaint if it is referred to us within six years of 
the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the complainant becoming aware 
that he has cause for complaint. 
Mr S has complained that Mitsubishi declined his claims under sections 56, 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act. Its decision to do so was made relatively recently, so I have power 
to consider that part of his complaint. 
He has also complained about the credit assessment that was (or was not) carried out when 
he took out the loan. That is a complaint about an event in or around October 2011. I 
indicated in my provisional decision that I thought this part of the complaint was brought 
outside the time limits in our own rules. Even if I were to take a different view on that  
perhaps because Mr S is unlikely to have known what checks a lender was expected to 
make at the time  I do not believe I could safely conclude that proper checks were not 
carried out. In saying that, I note that Mr S never suggested during the currency of the loan 
that it was unaffordable, and there is no evidence that he had difficulty making payments. 
I concluded in my provisional decision that, by the time Mr S suggested that he had a claim 
in misrepresentation against CLC, it was likely that a court would say that any such claim 
would be out of time under the Limitation Act. That remains my view, and for the same 
reasons as those set out in my provisional decision. In the circumstances, it was reasonable 
of Mitsubishi to take the view that a claim against CLC was unlikely to succeed and to 
decline Mr Ss claims under section 75 and/or section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act. L says that the relevant time limit should be counted from the date on which the loan was 
repaid. In respect of claims under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, I said in my 
provisional decision: The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act 
is six years from the time the relationship between the parties ended When L first 
indicated to Mitsubishi that it thought Mr S could make a claim under section 140A, that time 
limit had not expired. That is, if Mr S had started court action in March 2021, it is likely that 
Mitsubishi would have had to address the merits of the section 140A claim, rather than 
relying on a Limitation Act defence. I have therefore considered that issue. 
The further submissions made in response to my provisional decision are largely concerned 
with what L says were breaches of the Timeshare Regulations. 
Only a court can make orders under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act, 
and it is not for me to say whether the seller was in breach of the Timeshare Regulations. 
They are however matters which I must take into account in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome of Mr Ss complaint. 
I note that L now says that Mr and Mrs S did not receive certain documents at the time of 
sale. Perhaps surprisingly, this is not something they raised when they made the complaint  
even though a large part of that complaint was based on breaches of the Timeshare 
Regulations. L supplied copy documents but did not suggest that Mr and Mrs S had only 
recently been provided with them.    
I do note as well, however, that the copies of the contractual documents  including the main 
contract itself, the Acquisition Agreement  have not been signed by Mr and Mrs S. That 
document records that Mr and Mrs S had received the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association, the Scheme Rules and Regulations, and the Information Statement. It is 
possible of course that Mr and Mrs S did not receive a copy of the Acquisition Agreement 
and that they did not sign it. That would mean however that they received no paperwork at 
all, but did not query that at any point for more than ten years. I think that is unlikely. I also 
think it unlikely that CLC would have set up their membership unless it had the necessary 
signed paperwork. And I note as well that Mr and Mrs S told L that  we have no records 
relating to the 2011 transactions other than those we have sent you That is not quite the 
same as saying that they never had them. 
Whether or not Mr and Mrs S were given copies of the documents required under the 
Timeshare Regulations, L says that the information was not accurate. It has referred 
specifically to the reference to Trial Membership in the Acquisition Agreement. But that 
agreement was entered into at the end of the trial membership, so did not reflect what had 
been agreed. It says too that the property which was the subject of the agreement was not 
accurately described.   
Be that as it may, I do not believe that Mr and Mrs S were misled or disadvantaged by that 
inaccuracy. They did not believe they had trial membership and were not treated as if they 
did. They had the benefits of full membership  even if they became unhappy with it. 
Even if I accept that there was a breach of the Timeshare Regulations, however, it does not 
follow that it would be fair to uphold a complaint about Mitsubishi. L has submitted that 
Regulation 15 says that the contract should be in the form required by the Regulations and 
that a contract which does not meet those requirements is unenforceable against the 
consumer. The Regulations do not say however that the contract is null and void. In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act, a court can consider any connected agreement  which in this 
case would include the Acquisition Agreement. As I have indicated, though, I think it is far 
from clear in this case that there was a breach of the Timeshare Regulations. That depends 
to a large extent on whether Mr and Mrs S received the correct documents at the time of 
sale, about which there is some doubt, even based on their own statement. Perhaps more 
importantly, however, it does not appear that any breach has placed them in a worse 
position than they would have been in but for that breach. 
Taking all of that into account, I am not persuaded that a court would conclude that the loan 
agreement created an unfair relationship between Mr S and Mitsubishi.  
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I do not believe it 
would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ss complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman