DRN-2938090
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) continued charging him 
excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr S complained to Halifax in September 2019. He said Halifax had charged him fees and 
interest for being overdrawn and the extra cost for his overdraft made it more difficult to 
repay. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr S was dissatisfied, he referred his 
complaint to our service.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She noted that Mr Ss overdraft 
had been increased as follows:
- 27 July 2017 overdraft limit increased from £2,400 to £4,000; and
- 16 May 2018 overdraft limit increased from £4,000 to £5,000.
-
She thought that Halifax ought to have realised that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty 
by 27 July 2017 and so shouldnt have increased his overdraft and added any more interest, 
fees and charges from this point onwards. Mr S said he didnt have anything further to add to 
the adjudicator assessment of his complaint. However, Halifax didnt agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions. In summary, it said:
- When it increased Mr Ss overdraft limit in 2018 it had ten months to be satisfied it 
was affordable (since the last increase in July 2017). This wasnt a short period but 
sufficient time. 
- If he was near his overdraft limit and a direct debit failed it was because of 
mismanagement of the account. There werent any obvious signs of financial 
difficulty. 
- There were a number of large credits going into the account. The month the overdraft 
was first increased to £4,000 Mr S received over £4,600 into the account from 
various sources. Prior to this, credits were regular and showed he was able to afford 
a higher overdraft. And just prior to the further increase the customer had over 
£8,000 credits coming into the account. 
- Mr S terminated his banking relationship in October 2019 by repaying the 
outstanding overdraft. He switched to another bank taking a credit balance of 
£3,771.54. This wasnt indicative he was in difficulty. 
Our adjudicator didnt change her mind, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr 
Ss overdraft on 21 July 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr S was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. Mr S was 
consistently overdrawn in the months leading up to the £4,000 limit being assigned to him 
and on the rare occasions his account went into credit, it would be overdrawn again within a 
few days. Indeed, in the six months leading up to the overdraft increase in July 2017, Mr S 
had several direct debits returned, due to him being over the authorised limit. These direct 
debits payments appear to be to other finance providers. So, I think it was clear that 
increasing Mr Ss limit would cause harm and he was in financial difficulty  there were 
several occasions when he wasnt within the current limit at the time.  
Ive noted Halifaxs comments that in the period between 27 July 2017 and 16 May 2018 
(when the overdraft was increased again, by £1,000) it had ten months to be satisfied that 
the overdraft was affordable. It says credits totalling £8,000 had been paid into the account 
the month before. But I dont agree it could have been satisfied a further increase was 
affordable or appropriate. There was a similar pattern as before - in the intervening period 
between both increases Mr Ss persistently remained in his overdraft and if the account went 
into credit, it would return to a negative balance after a few days. I accept that the total 
amount credited to the account isnt inconsequential, but I dont think its reasonable to look 
at this in isolation given that this was one month. This wasnt a regular pattern over a 
reasonable period of time. I stress Mr S was still nearly always in his overdraft, suggesting 
he was relying heavily on borrowing to get by. 
Halifax says Mr S finally repaid the overdraft in October 2019 and switched accounts with a 
credit balance. So, it doesnt agree this suggests he was in difficulty. But Mr S has said that 
he was only able to repay the overdraft with this assistance of his mother through a loan she 
took out and which he still needs to repay. And I note that the source of the funds is 
supported by what appears on his statement. 
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Halifax didnt 
treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
1. Reworking Mr Ss account so that all interest, fees and charges applied in respect of 
the overdraft increase above the original £2,400 limit since 27 July 2017 are 
refunded.
2. If the above calculation in 1 will mean that Mr S made overpayments to Halifax by the 
time it closed his account. These overpayments should be returned to Mr S along 
with 8% simple annual interest from the date they were made until the date it pays 
this settlement.
3. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Halifax should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to put things 
right for Mr S by carrying out the redress that I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman