DRN-3994953
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds decision to decline his 
claim and cancel his policy.  
What happened
Mr C suffers with lower back pain. He claimed on his income protection policy with L&G as 
he became too unwell to work in August 2020. Mr C would like L&G to ultimately pay his 
claim.
L&G said it declined Mr Cs claim fairly. It explained Mr C didnt meet the policy terms, in 
particular, hed not been registered with a UK doctor for at least two years prior to taking the 
policy. It said Mr C didnt give accurate information about that when he first took the policy 
out in January the same year. L&G said had it known, it wouldnt have offered Mr C the 
policy because he wouldnt have been eligible for it. It therefore declined the claim, cancelled 
the policy and returned the premiums Mr C had paid. 
Our investigator agreed that Mr C hadnt answered the health questionnaire accurately and 
that L&G was entitled to cancel the policy. She was persuaded Mr C didnt meet the policys 
eligibility criteria because hed not been registered with a UK doctor long enough to satisfy 
the terms. Prior to January 2020 Mr C was registered with a doctor in Poland. 
The investigator said Mr C had misrepresented his medical history and that this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA (Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representations Act 2012). She said the question asked by L&G was clear and that Mr C 
recklessly responded to it. She noted L&G didnt reach that conclusion but suggested it went 
beyond her expectations by returning the premiums hed paid for the policy. 
Mr C, unhappy with this, asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He explained he 
has another policy with a different provider and that remained in place, so he cannot 
understand why L&Gs policy was cancelled. And so, its for me to make a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I say that for similar reasons 
already explained by our investigator. L&G hasnt made a mistake here, Mr C made an error 
whilst completing the health questionnaire and told L&G hed been registered with a UK 
doctor two years prior to taking the policy. That was incorrect. And thats the cause of the 
issue here because Mr Cs claim was declined, and his policy cancelled, based on this 
particular error. Ill explain why. 
In order that a claim to be considered, Mr C needed to satisfy the policy terms. This didnt 
happen for the reasons already explained. 
Mr C had a duty to take reasonable care whilst completing his application forms with L&G. I 
agree with our investigator as I dont think he did that. I say that because Mr C answered yes 
to the following statement;
I have been registered with a doctor in the UK for the last 2 years 
But this wasnt the case. At the time Mr C completed the application with L&G in August 
2020, hed only been registered with a UK doctor for around eight months. I know that 
because Ive seen Mr Cs GP records which show he became a patient at the surgery in 
January 2020. And so, Im satisfied Mr C gave an incorrect response to the statement. Im 
also satisfied the statement is clear and non-misleading  which is part of L&Gs obligation 
under CIDRA to ensure questions are clear and specific, non-misleading and relevant to the 
product area. 
The reason L&G cancelled the policy and returned the premiums was it considered Mr Cs 
non-disclosure as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. Under CIDRA the rules say an 
insurer, should it consider the misrepresentation to be careless, can terminate the policy and 
return the premiums to the consumer. And so, Im satisfied L&G met its obligations here. I 
note our investigators comments about the misrepresentation being reckless, but I should 
say L&G already made a finding about it being careless and has referred to the appropriate 
rule and applied the correct remedy in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman