DRN-3636558
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain they were given incorrect information by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) 
regarding redemption of their mortgage and as a result incurred an Early Redemption 
Charge (ERC).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to all parties and so Ill only summarise 
them here.
- In October 2021, Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with Lloyds. It concerned whether 
an ERC would be payable if a lump sum was paid into the mortgage account. 
- On 22 October, a call was made to Mr B in which Lloyds agent said no ERC would 
be payable provided the mortgage was not redeemed in full. But he could pay off a 
lump sum and leave just one months repayment to allow the mortgage to be repaid 
naturally. During the call Mr B asked if he could just pay the mortgage off. The agent 
said if the mortgage was redeemed then an ERC would be payable. Mr B said that 
the redemption statement his solicitor held showed the ERC  the agent said thats 
correct because if the mortgage is redeemed, the ERC would be payable.
- This call was followed up by a final answer  in which Lloyds confirmed Mr and Mrs B 
could make an overpayment and as long as a natural repayment occurs due to the 
normal monthly payment being made there would be no ERC. The letter also 
confirmed if the mortgage was redeemed in full there would be an ERC. 
- Mr B made several more calls to Lloyds in an attempt to get a redemption statement 
which didnt show the ERC. He told Lloyds that his solicitor would only send sufficient 
money to redeem the mortgage. He said his solicitor wasnt prepared to send money 
unless it repaid the mortgage.
- In these calls Lloyds told Mr B that hed been given incorrect information in the 
previous final response letter.
- Lloyds now advised that once a lump sum payment had been made, the mortgage 
had to remain outstanding for a minimum of six months. If that didnt happen, then an 
ERC would be payable on the full mortgage redemption. 
- Lloyds suggested a solution:
- Mr and Mrs B should pay a lump sum into their mortgage leaving a balance 
outstanding
- Monthly repayments would be recalculated over the remaining term and be debited 
to Mr and Mrs Bs account as usual
- After six months, Mr and Mrs B could repay the remaining balance of the mortgage. 
An ERC would be payable at that point, but it would only be on the balance 
outstanding after the lump sum payment had been made.
- Lloyds offered to waive the interest on the mortgage once the lump sum payment 
had gone through.
- Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs B £750 for the inconvenience and wrong information it 
had previously given
- Mr B said Lloyds offer wasnt acceptable. He said he was moving abroad and so 
wouldnt be in the country to look after the mortgage matters. He indicated his 
intention to refer the matter to this service.
- On 28 October, Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor sent sufficient money to Lloyds to repay the 
mortgage in full and pay the ERC.
- Mr and Mrs B have asked that Lloyds repay the ERC because of the wrong advice 
they were given.
- In its final response Lloyds confirmed it wont refund the ERC. 
- Having been unable to reach agreement, the complaint was brought to this service.
- Our investigator didnt think Lloyds should do any more than it had already done. He 
said that Lloyds had been consistent in saying if the mortgage was redeemed in full, 
an ERC would be payable. He also said that if Lloyds initial advice had been followed 
then the situation may have been different. But because the mortgage was redeemed 
in full, Lloyds were entitled to charge the ERC.
- Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigator. Mr B said he recalled conversations 
with Lloyds where it was specifically agreed that an amended redemption statement 
without the ERC would be issued. Mr B went on to say because of time restraints, the 
solicitor had to redeem the whole mortgage and he believed Lloyds would honour its 
promise to waive the ERCs. Mr B requested copies of the calls wed received which 
our investigator provided.
- Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Im aware of an email dated 8 August 2022 from Mr and Mrs B in which more time was 
requested for them to listen to the calls between themselves and Lloyds and provide more 
evidence. To date nothing further has been received from Mr and Mrs B. However, Im 
satisfied the information I have on file, which includes those calls, is sufficient to reach a fair 
and reasonable decision. 
The majority of the facts in this case are not in dispute so Ill largely focus on what is in 
dispute. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have strong feelings on their case, and if I dont mention 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr and Mrs B 
dont take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Its not in dispute Lloyds initially gave incorrect information about the redemption of the 
mortgage. They accept they said a lump sum could be paid leaving just one further regular monthly payment outstanding. They said once this regular payment was made, the mortgage 
would be redeemed and so no ERC would be payable.
Lloyds have apologised for this error, and paid Mr and Mrs B £750 even though they didnt 
act on the misinformation. Had Mr and Mrs B done what Lloyds initially said then the 
situation may have been different. But in this case, Mr and Mrs B didnt do what Lloyds had 
suggested.
Mr B says Lloyds told him that an amended redemption statement would be sent which 
excluded the ERC. Ive listened to all the calls which Lloyds have sent to me and Ive not 
heard it say that to Mr B. Im not disputing what Mr B believes he remembers being said. But 
having listened to the calls, Im persuaded by those. 
Mr B has indicated Lloyds may not have provided us with all the calls. Thats a serious 
accusation to make. I have no reason to believe that Lloyds would withhold evidence from 
us, and Mr and Mrs B havent provided evidence of calls with Lloyds other than those Ive 
listened to. So Im satisfied that Lloyds did not promise an amended redemption statement.
Ive considered the solution Lloyds suggested to Mr and Mrs B involving waiving interest for 
6 months after a lump sum payment was made on the mortgage. And I find this fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I note Mr and Mrs B didnt take up this solution 
and their solicitor sent the full amount requested on the redemption statement to Lloyds. 
That not only paid the mortgage off in full but also the ERC.  
Lloyds have consistently said if the mortgage was redeemed in full, the ERC would be 
payable. And Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B were aware an ERC would be payable, but they 
chose to ignore options that Lloyds suggested, and redeemed the mortgage in full.  
On balance Im satisfied that Lloyds did not give a promise of sending a redemption 
statement without the ERC and did not suggest that if the mortgage was redeemed in full, 
the ERC would be refunded. And in the circumstances of this case I find Lloyds acted 
reasonably, and in line with the mortgage terms and conditions in applying the ERC.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman