DRN-1275332
 
complaint
Mrs U says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs U bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card over the 
internet.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs U disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Us case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Us complaint and Ill explain why.
I think Egg made Mrs U aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI and she chose to 
take it. I say this because Egg has given me screenshots to show what it says Mrs U would 
have seen when she took out her credit card. And this shows there was an option to select 
yes or no to the PPI. Based on what we know about Eggs sales processes at this time, 
Mrs U wouldve had to select the yes option for the PPI to be added. There was no 
automatic default option to include PPI. So I think Mrs U wouldve been aware that she had 
to make a decision about PPI at the time - even if shes forgotten this now. And I think shed 
have known at the time that she couldve declined PPI if she didnt want it.
Egg says the PPI was sold over the internet. I dont think Egg recommend the PPI to Mrs U 
so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. I say this because the sale of the PPI was 
over the internet and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mrs U would have spoken to 
anyone at Egg or was given any personalised recommendation. So, it was up to Mrs U to 
decide whether the PPI was right for her, taking into account her personal circumstances. 
Egg had to provide sufficient information to Mrs U so that she could make an informed 
choice about the PPI. Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs U about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But 
based on what I know about Mrs Us circumstances, I dont think better information would 
have stopped her from buying it.
I say this because Mrs U was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been 
affected by the main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And I think she could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mrs Us initial 
sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months, and whilst it continued at a 
reduced rate, Mrs U told us she had no other means she could rely on if she was too ill to 
work. The PPI policy would have paid 10% of any outstanding credit card balance each 
month for up to 12 months if she was too ill to work, or if she lost her job. So as this would 
have been in addition to her sick pay, and would have paid out for longer than her employer 
would have paid her at her full rate of pay, I think the policy could have been useful to Mrs U. 
So I dont think that Mrs U lost out as a result of anything Egg might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman