DRN-3371749
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled 
its application for a new account, which it needed in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
One of Ss directors, Mr H, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S wanted to apply to HSBC for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. S didnt hold any accounts with the bank, so it applied for a feeder 
account. Its application was submitted on 18 August 2020.
Mr H says that having not heard anything from HSBC, he followed up with it in September 
2020 and was reassured that it was underway. He says he also raised a query online the 
following month, but didnt receive a response. 
After chasing the application up in January 2021, HSBC advised Mr H that the application 
had been cancelled. With the matter having been escalated by way of complaint, HSBC said 
in its response of 7 January that:
The bank had attempted to contact Mr H on 23 September 2020 to clarify some 
information within Ss application, but had been unable to reach him.
It had then sent a text message to the contact number held on file, advising that the 
application should be restarted.
Having not heard from S, the bank had rejected its application.
Although the bank wasnt currently accepting new applications, if S still wanted to 
apply it could register its interest and would be notified when applications reopened.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred the matter to us. He said that 
hed not had any contact from the bank as it had suggested and was concerned as to Ss 
future without access to the loan. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She could see that HSBC had legitimately 
needed to clarify some information with S before it could proceed with the application, but 
thought it couldve done more to try to resolve the matter before cancelling it  such as 
leaving a voicemail and requesting a call back or sending an email. So she recommended 
that HSBC consider a new application from S  and if it was successful, consider a Bounce 
Back Loan application.
Mr H accepted our investigators view but HSBC didnt. The bank said that the application 
had failed due to an error on Ss part in completing it, and that it had taken reasonable steps 
to contact the company to clarify things. Moreover, by this time the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme had closed for new applications and the bank didnt accept that the circumstances 
justified use of the exceptions process that permitted applications in certain conditions.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ss complaint last month. I also thought the complaint 
should be upheld but reached a different conclusion on what HSBC needed to do to put 
things right. I said:
Having reviewed the records of Ss application, I can see that it did contain some 
fairly minor inaccuracies that HSBC reasonably needed to clarify before it could 
proceed.
HSBCs records also show that it did make some attempts to contact S in order to do 
so. A note dated 23 September 2020 says that a call was attempted and that this 
was followed up with a text message. That said, the bank hasnt been able to verify 
that the call was made  or confirm the contact number used for either the call or text 
message. 
In any event, even accepting that HSBC did reach out in the manner its described I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for it to have done more to update S. It doesnt 
seem that HSBC left a message when unable to reach Ss directors over the phone 
to obtain the information it needed. And I cant see that it took any steps at all to let S 
know that the application had been declined, or cancelled, given the missing 
information. Had it done so, S couldve taken the necessary steps to progress or 
restart the application a lot sooner. 
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme is now closed  even to exceptional applications, 
whatever the circumstances  so there is no means by which HSBC could consider 
an application from S now. And I dont think HSBCs actions deprived S of access to 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme altogether. The company was aware in early January 
2021 that its application had been declined  and the Loan Scheme was open for 
applications until 31 March 2021. So S was then free to approach an alternative 
lender  or register with the bank so that it could reapply when applications resumed. 
I do, though, think that shortcomings in how HSBC dealt with the application put S to 
some inconvenience. The company had to chase up on more occasions than ought 
to have been necessary. And when it belatedly found out, in January 2021, that its 
application had been cancelled, it was unable to submit a new one  as HSBC had 
suspended new account applications. So S had to explore other options instead  to 
this end, I understand it sought a loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme. For this, I 
think it would be fair for HSBC to pay S compensation of £100.
I invited both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I made a final decision. HSBC accepted my provisional decision and S didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and with no new information or evidence for me to take into account, Ive 
not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. So this final decision 
simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay S compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman