DRN-2735303
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided incorrect 
information at renewal for a multi car insurance policy. Hes unhappy that he was able to 
obtain a cheaper price online and that Advantage wouldnt transfer funds between policies.
All reference to the insurer Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P bought a car insurance policy with Advantage in March 2019 for car S. Later that 
month he added car J under a multi car policy. His son was the policyholder for car J. The 
price for car S in March 2019 was £547.99. The price for car J was £1,052.85. 
In November 2019 Mr P added business use to both policies for all drivers. He paid an 
additional premium of £67.76.
In February 2020 the broker sent Mr P a renewal invite. The previous years total premium 
was quoted at £1,982.14. The 2020 renewal premium total was quoted at £2,302.02. 
Mr P called the broker and they offered a lower premium of £1,925.44. Mr P didnt accept 
this quote and  after obtaining quotes online  he called the broker back. Hed obtained a 
single car quote for car S for £405.65 with Advantage, which the broker was able to lower to 
£401.77.
Mr P renewed his policy for car S at £401.77  on the agreement that if he found a cheaper 
like for like quote before the renewal date, Advantage would provide a full refund.
On 3 March 2020 Mr P called the broker to say hed obtained a cheaper quote at £386.68. 
The broker said it couldnt lower the price set by Advantage any further. So Mr P had the 
option to cancel the policy (without charge) and set up a replacement policy online  or over 
the phone. But if he set it up over the phone, there would be a call centre fee of £12.50. This 
would mean a net benefit to Mr P of £2.59.
Mr P bought a replacement policy online for £386.68 and Advantage provided a full refund of 
the £401.77 he paid for the cancelled policy on 3 March 2020.
On the same day Mr P raised a complaint. He said the 2019 premium quoted on the renewal 
invite was incorrect  and so he said he couldnt meaningfully compare it with the 2020 
renewal premium quoted. He complained that Advantage wouldnt transfer funds between 
policies. 
Advantage told Mr P the renewal premium for 2020 was correctly calculated. It said it 
couldnt transfer funds between policies due to anti money laundering guidelines. 
Advantage upheld Mr Ps complaint that it had quoted an incorrect premium for 2019 as this 
wasnt the actual price Mr P had paid. But when we contacted it about Mr Ps complaint, 
Advantage said it shouldnt have upheld this complaint as the premium it quoted was in fact 
correct.
Mr P said he wanted £150 compensation for the inconvenience Advantage caused him. He 
said he was able to buy a cheaper policy for car J with another insurer for considerably 
less. He said if he hadnt acted, he would have paid double the amount he paid for both cars 
to be insured from March 2020. He thought Advantage should have refunded the difference 
in price rather than insist he cancel the renewed policy and buy a replacement. 
Our investigator didnt think Advantage had acted unreasonably. So she didnt recommend 
the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr P didnt agree. In summary hes unhappy that we said Advantage didnt incorrectly quote 
the previous years premium, as this is something Advantage acknowledged to him.
Mr P said the broker was unable to provide him with a split between the price at renewal 
which meant he couldnt make any meaningful comparison. This matters because he was 
able to obtain alternative cover for both cars for a total of £1,100. So this was approximately 
half the total renewal quote from Advantage and therefore Mr P believes he was treated 
unfairly. 
Mr P doesnt accept the reason Advantage gave for not transferring funds between policies 
and says it should have refunded the difference as a goodwill gesture. 
He now wants Advantage to pay £250 compensation and would like an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The renewal invite sent to Mr P in February 2020 quoted the previous years premium at 
£1,982.14. Mr P is correct in saying that this isnt the same as the amount paid under the 
multi car policy for the previous year. However, it is the amount  for comparison purposes  
Mr P would have paid if the policy for the full year of 2019 included business use. As the 
renewal price included business use, the previous years price quoted by Advantage 
included this change. 
Just above the prices for 2019 and 2020 on the invite, the broker wrote:
A change was made to this policy last year. So to help you compare prices weve 
based the ones below on the current policy details.
So I think the basis of the premium for 2019 was clearly explained. The error made was in 
the reply to Mr Ps complaint as Advantage incorrectly upheld it. So I can understand why 
this may have caused confusion for Mr P. However, I think the amount quoted for 2019 was 
correct in order to be directly comparable with the renewal quote for 2020. 
We dont think a business has necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance 
premium at renewal. There are often risk-related reasons associated with the various 
insurers of the policy for doing so. Industry increases over time can also play a part. There is 
a wide range of products available on the open market for similar cover at differing prices. It 
isnt for us to tell a business what premium it should charge. This is a commercial decision 
they are entitled to make.Mr P contacted Advantage to discuss the renewal quote about a month before the renewal 
date and accepted a reduced quote for £401.77 for car S. 
When new policies are taken out, they often come with a significant initial discount which 
insurers aim to recoup over the years through customer retention. This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance policy. 
Businesses can also offer discounts with the aim of retaining their existing customers. This is 
something businesses may do at their own discretion and we wouldnt consider it unfair.
I understand Mr P feels Advantage should have paid the difference in the quote he found 
online rather than having to cancel the existing policy and buy a replacement. But I dont 
think Advantage acted unreasonably here and its reasons for doing so were explained to Mr 
P. Advantages decision to return the premium for the cancelled policy was in line with Anti 
Money Laundering guidelines and isnt something I can criticise them for. I think it promptly 
arranged for a refund of premium in full under the cancelled policy, so Mr P was able to 
benefit from the reduced price he found for a replacement policy for car S before the 
renewal date. 
The rates insurers apply to their pricing changes daily. Insurers pricing and underwriting 
information is commercially sensitive, so it cannot be shared with consumers. However, we 
can ask a business to provide this information to us so that we can check its treated a 
customer fairly. Having reviewed the information provided by Advantage to us, Im satisfied it 
correctly calculated the premium Mr P paid at renewal.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I dont think Advantage 
has acted in an unreasonable way. So Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman