DRN-3904197
The complaint
Mr H complained that his claim for lost jewellery was unfairly declined by QIC Europe Ltd 
(QIC) under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his policy when his wife lost two rings. Mr H said the rings may 
have been lost either, during decorating at their home or, whilst his wife was out and about 
later in the day.
Mr H said the lost jewellery was covered by the insurance policy. However, when QIC 
reviewed the claim it decided to decline it. QIC said you contacted us on 14th June 2022 to 
advise that your wife had lost her wedding and engagement rings within the boundary of 
your property.
As no damage had happened to the rings, QIC said the claim couldnt be considered under 
the accidental damage section of the policy. And as the section for personal possessions 
away from your property doesnt include loss or damage that happens at home, QIC said 
the claim wasnt covered.
Mr H said that QIC changed the terms of the policy and said the loss should be covered.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought it was likely the rings were 
lost in the house. He thought QIC had acted fairly as he thought it had declined the claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr H disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering where its most probable the rings were lost, as I think this is key 
in assessing whether the claim was handled fairly. Mr H has explained its not clear where 
the rings were lost  as he said there was a 36-hour window that passed before his wife 
realised the rings were missing. Mr H said the rings couldve equally been lost within the 
home or outside the boundaries of the home.
However, QIC said when the claim was made, Mr H was clear in his testimony that the rings 
were lost at their home and QIC said the story only evolved as Mr H became aware of what 
the policy covered and didnt cover. So, Ive listened to that initial call.
When the claim was made, Mr H explained the rings were lost somewhere in the house. For 
clarification, the agent asked specifically if the rings had been lost in the property. Mr H 
provided positive confirmation and provided further information, explaining that the rings may 
have come off during decorating and when putting things in the bin.
I can see Mr H said later, the rings may have been lost outside of the property. But this was 
after Mr H had been notified the policy didnt cover loss in the home. I think QIC has acted 
reasonably to assume the loss was in the home. I think this carries more weight than the 
later testimony after Mr H discovered loss in the home wasnt covered. I also think it would 
be quite unusual to lose rings off a finger when out and about  I think its more likely this did 
happen when decorating and clearing up. Therefore, I think QIC has been fair in validating 
the claim.
Ive considered whether I think QIC has declined the claim fairly based on its assessment 
that the rings were lost in the home. I think it has been fair. It explained as the rings hadnt 
been damaged, accidental damage wouldnt apply. Its also shared the policy terms which 
state loss in the home is excluded from the section of the policy titled personal possessions 
away from your property. Therefore, even though one of Mr Hs rings was specifically 
itemised within this section of the policy, it wouldnt have been covered as the loss (in the 
home) was excluded from the policy.
Mr H said that QIC changed the policy terms during the term of insurance. Policies cant be 
changed unless both parties agree to it. There is no evidence to suggest the policy has been 
amended. QIC have said the policy hasnt been altered during the term. As Ive only seen 
one policy and I havent seen any evidence to suggest there is a different version of the 
policy, I think QIC has acted correctly in applying the terms from the available policy.
Therefore, I think QIC has acted fairly. It has used the details provided from the claim to 
validate it and it has made a reasonable decision in conjunction with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC Europe Ltd to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman