DRN-3195782
The complaint
Mr D complains about the charge for excess mileage that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after he voluntarily terminated the 
hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to him. He also complains 
about the value of the car at that time.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in August 2015. The car had a price of £28,552 and the total amount 
payable was shown on the agreement as £33,102.12. Mr D paid a deposit of £5,000 and 
agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £264.94 for the car to be supplied to him. If he 
wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement hed have to pay an optional 
purchase payment of £15,375 and a purchase activation fee of £10. 
The agreement said that Mr D had the right to terminate the agreement and that Mercedes-
Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total amount payable 
under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being £16,551.06). Mr D 
voluntarily terminated the agreement in August 2018 says that he paid £2,278.16 to make 
the total amount paid up to the 50% required for a voluntary termination. He then received 
an invoice from Mercedes-Benz Finance for an excess mileage charge of £154.91 because 
hed exceeded the allowed mileage by 993 miles.
Mr D complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the excess mileage charge. It said that 
the obligation to pay an excess mileage charge for mileage exceeding the mileage 
allowance was set out in the agreement and that the Consumer Credit Act permits it to 
include any excess mileage when determining what isnt reasonable when the cars 
returned. It said that the agreement was subject to a mileage allowance prior to termination 
and Mr D had exceeded the allowance so the charge had been raised correctly and 
remained payable.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He said that hed 
already paid so much to end the agreement early out of necessity and the car was worth far 
less than the agreement should have allowed for. He said that he didnt want to suffer the 
extra expense of the mileage charge which he believed to be unfair and not to constitute 
unreasonable wear and tear.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded 
that the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 dont allow for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to seek payment of excess mileage charges from Mr D when the agreement was voluntarily 
terminated. He believed that Mercedes-Benz Finance didnt provide information to Mr D that 
was clear, fair and not misleading and that it had failed to provide adequate explanations or 
clearly set out the potentially significant adverse impact of exceeding the mileage limit upon 
voluntary termination. 
He didnt feel that the amounts quoted in the agreement were inappropriate and, as Mr D 
hadnt been negatively impacted by them, he didnt consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance 
should do anything more relating to the value of the car. He recommended that Mercedes-
Benz Finance should waive the excess mileage charge (but, if it had been paid, it should be 
refunded to Mr D, with interest. He also recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should 
remove any adverse information that it had recorded on Mr Ds credit file since the time hed 
exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement.
Mr D has accepted those recommendations, and has confirmed that he hasnt paid the 
excess mileage charge, but Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt responded to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement says:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person you 
make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half 
the total amount payable under the agreement, that is £16,551.06. If you have 
already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken 
reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more.
The agreement also says, under a heading which says Default Charges:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement 
terminates early for any reason), an excess distance charge will be payable at the 
rate of 13.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by which the total distance travelled by 
the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds the allowed distance, calculated 
at the rate of 10000 Miles per year, pro-rated for part years (see Condition 12).
Condition 12 sets out more information about the excess mileage charge.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer has to 
voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due on termination. 
The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess mileage charges, are 
required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. If the 
excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the agreement, I 
consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to make that charge to Mr D. 
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you do not 
exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates early for 
any reason) and the excess mileage charge is then calculated on the basis of the cars 
mileage after it has been returned  so it would only be known after the agreement has been terminated. For these reasons, I consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance cant charge for 
excess mileage in these circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides 
for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the aggregate of the 
sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the 
termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in 
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence of 
the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for the 
payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge Mr D for half of the total 
price of the car under the agreement so, if hed already paid that amount, he wouldnt have 
to pay anything more. Section 100(4) allows for the amount to be increased if Mr D had 
failed to take reasonable care of the car.
Under the agreement, the requirement for compensation to be paid because the car isnt 
returned  in good condition, repair and working order  is separate from any 
requirement pay for excess mileage. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage limit would 
be considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that any excess mileage 
charge would be included in the total price of the car. I dont consider that the provisions in 
the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges would reasonably be considered to be 
payable because Mr D had failed to take reasonable care of the car and I dont consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance can charge for excess mileage in these circumstances under 
section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to the 
extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive set out 
above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning excess mileage 
charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent with the protections of 
the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are void to the extent that they 
relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is voluntarily terminated.
Mr D has paid at least £16,551.06 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and I dont consider that its 
allowed to also charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances. Even if Im mistaken 
about this, I still consider that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld because the agreement 
isnt as clear about the excess mileage charges as it should have been. 
It's clear from Mr Ds communications with Mercedes-Benz Finance that he considered that 
he shouldnt have to pay for any excess mileage. I consider that an underlying lack of clarity 
in the agreement about the cost of voluntarily terminating it is also an important 
consideration as to whether its fair and reasonable for a charge for any excess mileage to 
be made in these circumstances. 
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) including:CONC 2.3.2 which says: A firm must explain the key features of a regulated credit 
agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 
4.2.5 R (adequate explanations); and 
CONC 4.2.5 which says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred to in (2) 
in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the agreement is 
adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee.
Ive also considered principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses which says: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
I dont consider that the hire purchase agreement is as clear as it should have been or that 
its consistent with the CONC provisions and the principles for business for the following 
reasons: 
one section of the agreement sets out in a box headed Termination: Your rights 
specific wording that Mercedes-Benz Finance was required to include in the 
agreement which says, in effect, that if Mr D had paid at least half the total amount 
payable under the agreement, he wouldnt have to pay any more  and theres no 
further comment in that section about excess mileage charges;
the excess mileage charge is set out under a heading Default Charges but I dont 
consider that exceeding the contractual mileage would be a breach of contract as the 
contract specifically included a charge for exceeding that limit and I dont consider 
that excess mileage charges would be properly considered to be default charges;
condition 8 of the agreement deals with Early Termination by you but doesnt 
specifically refer to a charge for excess mileage if a customer should terminate the 
agreement early and return the car  but it does refer to another condition which 
deals with additional charges regarding the condition of the car;
condition 8 lists what Mr D would need to do and pay when terminating early and re-
iterates that he must comply with the terms of the statutory notice - one of which is 
that he wont need to pay more than £16,551.06;
condition 12 of the agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance charge 
in circumstances where the car is returned  including early termination - but I 
consider that theres a lack of clarity in the agreement about Mr Ds liability if he 
voluntarily terminated it and I dont consider that the terms of the agreement are 
consistent with the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act; 
condition 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only appears 
to be cross referenced in the section headed Default Charges;the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum liability for it are clearly 
set out on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box but the terms relating to charges for 
excess mileage, which might affect that liability on early termination, are not given 
equivalent prominence and I consider that theyre not clearly and consistently set out 
or referred to; and
condition 12 is included in the terms and conditions of the agreement and is not 
signposted in a way that would have naturally drawn Mr Ds attention to it if he was 
intending to return the car early.
I consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr D in a way that he was 
unlikely to foresee. I dont consider that he was properly or adequately informed that an 
excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the £16,551.06 payable on 
voluntary termination of his agreement. I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
met its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5. 
For reasons similar to those set out in the bullet points above, I dont consider that the 
agreement is clear, fair and not misleading - so I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance 
has complied with principle 7 of the Principles for Businesses. I consider that the lack of 
clarity in the agreement is likely to have prejudiced Mr D financially and I dont consider that 
its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge him for excess mileage in these 
circumstances.
Mr D has complained that the car was worth far less than the agreement should have 
allowed for but our investigator didnt feel that the amounts quoted in the agreement were 
inappropriate or that Mr D had been negatively impacted by the value of the car. The 
agreement didnt include a guaranteed future value of the car. It said that Mr D had to make 
48 monthly payments of £264.94 for the car to be supplied to him and, if he wanted to 
purchase the car at the end of the agreement, hed have to pay an optional purchase 
payment of £15,375 and a purchase activation fee of £10. That wasnt a guaranteed future 
value of the car. The optional purchase payment was the amount that Mr D would need to 
pay if he wanted to keep the car when the agreement ended. He would have the option at 
that time to return the car (and he wouldnt have needed to pay that amount) or to keep the 
car (and pay £15,375 and £10).
The agreement was signed in August 2015 and would have ended in about August 2019 but 
Mr D voluntarily terminated the agreement in August 2018  he chose not to keep the car 
and the optional purchase payment wasnt applicable at that time. The value of the car when 
he voluntarily terminated the agreement may have been less than he was expecting (and 
less than the optional purchase payment) but Im not persuaded that Mercedes-Benz 
Finance acted incorrectly in connection with the value of the car or the optional purchase 
payment. I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Mercedes-Benz Finance to take any action relating to the value of the car or the 
optional purchase payment. 
Putting things right
Mr D has confirmed that he hasnt paid the excess mileage charge and I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to now remove that charge from his 
account. If Mercedes-Benz Finance has recorded any adverse information on Mr Ds credit 
file relating to the excess mileage charge, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
remove that information.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Ds account.
2. Remove any adverse information about that charge that its recorded on Mr Ds credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman