DRN-3706513
The complaint
Mr R complains about the administration of his childs Junior Individual Savings Account
(JISA) by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited. He complains that following a
transfer request Hargreaves didnt inform him that the transfer had been unsuccessful, and
the money had been returned.
Mr R says as he was unable to locate, or access this money, he was unable to invest it on
his childs behalf. Mr R also says that when he contacted Hargreaves in January 2021 to try
to find out what had happened, he was informed the money hadnt been applied to his childs 
account.
What happened
On 21 September 2020 a third-party provider sent a request asking Hargreaves to transfer
the JISA. This request was received by Hargreaves on 25 September 2020.
On 9 October 2020 Hargreaves sent a message to Mr R indicating it had received the
transfer request.
On 13 October 2020 Hargreaves sent the cash to the nominated account.
On 19 October 2020 the payment was returned by the new provider.
On 30 October 2020 Hargreaves re-sent the funds.
On 3 November 2020 a message was sent to Mr R informing him that the money had been
transferred.
At around the same time Hargreaves sent an investment report to Mr R which showed the
account transactions up to and including, 30 October 2020. It showed the money had been
sent for a second time and showed a nil balance indicating it was no longer with Hargreaves.
On 4 November 2020 the payment was returned by the new provider for the second time.
On 10 November 2020 the monies were applied to the Hargreaves JISA.
On 29 January 2021 Mr R contacted Hargreaves by phone to ask what had happened to the
money in his childs JISA. The representative explained the money had been returned to
Hargreaves in November 2020. He also said it would reactivate the account so that Mr R
could access the details online.
During that conversation Mr R complained to Hargreaves that it hadnt informed him that the
money had been returned. He said Hargreaves had held onto his childs money without
informing him of its whereabouts. Mr R said he had been unable to invest the money and it
could have achieved a twelve percent return if it had been invested in a FTSE tracker fund.
In February 2021 an investment report was sent to Mr R which showed the account
transactions up to and including 31 January 2021, it showed the money back in the account.
On 17 March 2021 Hargreaves issued its response to Mr Rs complaint. It didnt uphold the
complaint as it said the money had been returned on two occasions and it had issued
investment reports which showed the transactions. But it apologised for not informing Mr R,
at around the time the money was returned for a second time. It acknowledged that he
hadnt been able to access the account online and it offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R didnt agree and referred his complaint about his childs Junior ISA to our service.
In June 2021 the money contained in the account was transferred to another provider.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.
He said as Mr R was a representative for his child, he wasnt entitled to compensation for the
time taken to pursue the matter and any inconvenience caused. He noted however, that it
was a matter for Hargreaves if it wished to pay any compensation directly to Mr R.
The investigator said he could only look to see if there was any direct financial loss to his
childs account.
He took into account the contents of the telephone conversation on 29 January 2021. He
didnt think that the representative had told Mr R that Hargreaves had failed to allocate the
funds back into the ISA.
The investigator said the representative made enquiries to find out what had happened. He
confirmed to Mr R that payments had been returned and that Hargreaves had been chasing
the new provider to find out why.
The investigator also noted that Hargreaves had confirmed it had used the payment details
the new provider had given and said the new provider hadnt given a reason for returning the
monies.
The investigator said the report that confirmed the second payment had been returned
wasnt sent to Mr R until February 2021. So, he said Mr R didnt receive any correspondence
informing him what had happened to the monies between November 2020 and 29 January
2021.
The investigator felt that Mr R couldve contacted Hargreaves earlier, which he felt would
have resulted in the position regarding the monies being confirmed sooner. But he said that
even so, Hargreaves couldve notified Mr R when the money was returned for the second
time. However, for the reasons he had already set out, he didnt ask Hargreaves to award
any further compensation, over and above the £50 already offered.
The investigator also considered whether there had been any financial loss due to the
money not being invested during this period. He noted that Mr R has said his intention was
to invest the funds in a FTSE tracker. But he took into account that this didnt happen once
he was aware of the whereabouts of the monies, on 29 January 2021.
The investigator noted a transfer was completed to another provider in June 2021 but Mr R
had confirmed he hadnt then invested in the FTSE tracker because the price had increased
by that point. Overall, the investigator didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to show that
Mr R would have invested in the FTSE tracker, if he had been informed by Hargreaves in
November 2020, that the monies had been returned.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary he said :
He had never sought personal compensation for this matter, but his child wasnt old enough to raise a complaint. He reiterated that it was his child that had lost out in this 
matter.
Hargreaves hadnt sent him anything in writing between October 2020 and January 
2021 that stated the funds had been returned and the new provider hadnt sent 
anything to inform him the funds had been returned.
Mr R could only see on the account that the funds had left in October 2020 so there 
was no reason for him to think the money had been returned. He noted that his other 
childs money had been transferred.
He said the investigators conclusions were full of contradictions, as Mr R said the 
investigator agreed that Hargreaves had the money and didnt make it available on 
the online account.
He only found that Hargreaves had the money due to a separate investigation into 
the complaint against the new provider.
He had told the representative he couldnt believe that Hargreaves had the money for 
four months without informing him.
Mr R pointed out hed invested his own money in the same FTSE tracker in October 
2020.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I upheld the complaint and said Hargreaves should pay 
Mr R £125 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to the provisional decision with any further 
representations they may wish to make.
Both parties acknowledged receipt and accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and noting that both parties have accepted my provisional decision and 
havent made any further representations, my decision remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
The following represents an extract from my provisional decision, and forms part of this final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was looking to transfer his childs junior ISA to a new provider. He made a transfer
request in September 2020 which was followed up by the new provider. Hargreaves
received the request on 25 September 2020 and sent the money on 13 October 2020. In the
meantime, as I understand it, Mr R decided to cancel the transfer request. So, the new
provider returned the payment on 19 October 2020.
Hargreaves then re-sent the money. It says it did this in order to facilitate the transfer and soas to not delay matters. Hargreaves also says there had been some contact with the new
provider around that time, to try to find out why it had been returned but the new provider
didnt provide it with any information.
There may be, for instance, a technical error which causes transfer money to be returned.
So, I dont think the return of the money, of itself, necessarily meant the transfer had been
cancelled. As Hargreaves hadnt received any confirmation that the transfer request was
cancelled, it still had a valid request. So, I dont think it was unreasonable in the
circumstances for it to proceed on the basis that it was still going ahead. And, as it hadnt
been able to obtain any clarification from the new provider.
Hargreaves issued an investment report at the beginning of November 2020 which listed the
transactions to the end of October 2020. This showed the first transfer being returned and
then the second transfer being made and a nil balance. So, I consider that report would have
given Mr R the impression that the money was with the new provider. I think that was also
supported by the message he was sent by Hargreaves on 3 November 2020 indicating the
transfer had been completed.
I dont think Mr R wouldve been aware that the money had been returned on 4 November
2020, until either the parties informed him that was the case , or it was shown somewhere on
a statement or report provided to him.
Hargreaves has accepted it didnt directly inform Mr R that the money had been returned
and it accepts that Mr R wasnt able to access this information online. The next investment
report, which did show the money had been returned for a second time, wasnt issued until
the beginning of February 2021.
I have carefully listened to the conversation Mr R had with a customer representative for
Hargreaves in January 2021. And it appears from that conversation that the new provider
had, at some point, informed Mr R that the money had been returned to Hargreaves in
October 2021. Which was correct, although of course it had then been re-sent and returned
a second time at the beginning of November 2020.
Mr R was understandably concerned that he was unsure of the whereabouts of his childs
money from, it appears, some point in November until the end of January 2021. It was a few
thousand pounds and so I can understand why he wouldve been upset to be unclear where
that money was, with the fear that it had somehow gone missing in the transfer process.
Mr R has also expressed his frustration that as he was unaware of where the money was, or
how to access it, he was also unable to invest it. And I will come to that issue, later on in this
decision. However, in any event, I think that wouldve added to his concern.
I have also taken into account that there was another party involved, the new provider, who
also couldve informed Mr R that it had sent the money back a second time, or it could have
contacted Hargreaves to find out what had happened. Although I have to bear in mind that
that business is not part of this complaint.
And Mr R himself, could have contacted Hargreaves earlier on to try to ascertain where the
money was. I do appreciate that these matters can be time consuming, and I also appreciate
that Mr R has referred to a telephone conversation on 12 January 2021. Unfortunately,
Hargreaves has been unable to locate that call in its records. But, in any event, I think Mr R
could have contacted Hargreaves earlier.
Having said that, overall, I think Mr R was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of
Hargreaves not informing him that the money had been returned a second time, given hewas unable to access that information online.
I think Mr R, as the parent of the account holder, had to access the service provided by
Hargreaves, for his child when transferring the junior ISA, particularly taking into account the
age of his child at the time. So, while I agree with the investigator that we wouldnt award
compensation purely for the time taken to bring a complaint, unless it was particularly
complex or time-consuming, I consider that we can award compensation for distress and
inconvenience. I dont think Mr R is merely acting as a representative for his child, in these
circumstances I think he is an eligible complainant in his own right.
I note that Mr R was concerned for about 2-3 months about what had happened to his childs
money and he had to contact Hargreaves to find out what had happened. So, I think
Hargreaves should pay Mr R £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused, as I consider
that sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, for the reasons I have outlined.
Investment loss
Mr R said in the telephone conversation with a representative from Hargreaves on 29
January, that if he invested the money in a FTSE tracker when it was returned in October, it
would have made a return of 12 percent over the relevant period. He said that had been his
intention.
He also said in his complaint form to our service that he could have invested in the money in
a FTSE tracker fund and that the return was about 20 percent over that period. So, Mr Rs
argument is that he has missed out on the opportunity to invest the money on behalf of his
child and make a return.
However, I have to consider whether there is evidence to suggest it was more likely than not
he would have invested his childs junior ISA in that FTSE tracker fund if he had been
informed, at the beginning of November 2020, that the money had been returned.
I note the account was opened in May 2020 and only ever held in cash with no at-risk
investment being made. In addition, I understand the original transfer to the new provider
was to an interest-bearing account - not a risk-based product.
I also take into account that once Mr R did find out that the money was back with
Hargreaves, at the end of January 2021, he didnt invest the money in a FTSE tracker fund
and instead transferred it to another provider in June 2021.
So, while the investment in that FTSE tracker fund, over that particular period, may later
have appeared to have been a good proposition, I do think there is an element of hindsight
here. Because, equally the fund couldve fallen in value at a later date and so if the money
had remained in the fund for some time, overall, the return may have been lower, or even
resulted in a loss. And, as I have said, it doesnt appear that any risk had previously been
taken with this money.
Therefore, although I consider this is something that Mr R could have done, I am not
persuaded that it is more likely than not, that he would have invested in that way if he had
been informed earlier, namely in November 2020.
So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award compensation on that basis.
Was the money held in the account after it was returned for the second time?
I note the representative informed Mr R in their conversation that his childs account would
be reactivated, which I think gave Mr R the impression that the account was closed, andthe money wasnt there.
However, I dont think the representative reactivating the account meant the money wasnt
returned to it. The activation was to allow the balance of the account to be viewed online.
Hargreaves has explained that once an account is fully transferred out, it will close and
deactivate it. This prevents the account holder from viewing their account online anymore,
signifying that their transfer out is complete. Hargreaves acknowledges that when the money
was returned on the second occasion it should have manually reactivated the account
belonging to Mrs R child, so that Mr R could see that there was money in the account.
However, I am satisfied that despite not being able to view it online, the money was back in
the account. It hadnt simply disappeared, as can be seen from the next investment report
issued in February 2021.
As the account the money was being held in didnt pay any interest or provide any return,
then I dont consider there has been any financial loss between the beginning of November
when the money was returned for the second time and the end of January 2021, when Mr R
was able to confirm its whereabouts.
It appears that Mr R had changed his mind about transferring the money to the new provider
and until a decision was made about where the money was going to be transferred, and that
transfer was actioned (as occurred later in June 2021) then I think it is more likely than not
that it wouldve remained in that account making no return.
Summary
I consider Hargreaves should pay Mr R £125 for the trouble and upset caused for not
informing him that the money had been returned in November 2020. If the £50 previously
offered as a gesture of goodwill has already been paid, then that sum should be deducted
from the £125.
Putting things right
Hargreaves should pay Mr R £125 for the trouble and upset caused. If the £50 previously 
offered has already been paid then that sum should be deducted from the £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr R 
compensation for trouble and upset as I have outlined in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman