DRN-3606250
The complaint
Mr F has complained that WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) has declined a claim for a fault 
with his upgraded mobile phone on the ground that it wasnt the phone referred to in his 
policy. The policy still recorded Mr Fs old phone as the insured phone.
References to WDP in this decision include its claims administrators and agents.
What happened
Mr F had an airtime contract with a mobile phone supplier who Ill refer to as the Supplier, 
who also arranged for insurance provided by WDP.
On 13 October 2020 Mr F upgraded his phone early and replaced it with a different make of 
phone. Mr F had insurance for his old phone arranged through the Supplier. He says that 
when upgrading his phone, he asked the Supplier to transfer his insurance to the new 
phone.
When Mr F subsequently made a claim for a fault with his new phone. WDP rejected the 
claim on the ground that the details it had on his policy were those of his old phone as Mr F 
hadnt select the option to add insurance for his new phone when he upgraded. 
As Mr F wasnt happy with WDPs rejection of his claim, he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint. She considered that once Mr F 
had disposed of his old phone, WDP was no longer at risk under the policy for this phone 
and therefore it should make a refund of premium to Mr F. But she didnt think that WDF 
should be responsible for the claim Mr F had made for his new phone.
WDP doesnt agree with our investigators view and argues that theres no evidence to 
suggest that Mr Fs old phone was no longer being used or that there was no insurable 
interest. It also drew attention to an email it had sent to him after hed upgraded his phone
to remind him that the insurance was still active for his old phone, and it was his 
responsibility to contact it to cancel the insurance if it was no longer required. As he hadnt 
done so, it shouldnt be required to issue a refund of premiums.
WDP has asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. Its therefore been passed to me 
to make a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider I have to decide whether the insurance Mr F had for his old phone transferred to 
his new phone when he upgraded his contract. He says that when he arranged the upgrade 
he requested that the insurance be transferred. It would appear that this message wasnt 
transferred to WDP so its records werent amended.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Fs policy and in particular the terms relating to cancelling 
cover and changes to the policy. The policy states (with my emphasis underlined):
When you buy another device from [Supplier] on the same mobile number and 
add insurance, well cancel cover on your old device automatically. Otherwise, if 
you cancel or upgrade your airtime contract with [Supplier], your insurance policy 
will remain active unless you contact us to cancel. If we cancel your policy, well 
send you written confirmation, including your cover end date. 
The wording does not say your insurance policy for your old device will remain 
active unless you contact us to cancel. It suggests the whole policy remains active 
following an upgrade. I therefore consider that a reasonable interpretation of this term 
is that if a contract is upgraded, for example by a change of phone, any existing 
insurance policy remains active and transfers to the new phone. In contract law, if 
wording is ambiguous, it should be interpreted against the party that puts it forward.
I dont think its reasonable for Mr F to be responsible for informing WDP direct that a 
different phone was now being used on the same number. He was dealing with the Supplier 
who is acting on behalf of WDP. I consider it was the responsibility of the Supplier to ensure 
that cover was transferred to the new phone, assuming that Mr F wanted the existing 
insurance to continue. If he no longer wished to have the benefit of insurance cover that 
insurance could have been cancelled and no more premiums paid. I gain support for that 
view from another part of the policy which states:
Your insurance policy is not tied to your [Supplier] airtime contract. So if you want 
your policy to come to an end when you cancel or upgrade your airtime contract, 
you will need to contact the [Supplier insurance team] directly (see Section E)
In its final response to Mr F, WDP says that on 4th November 2020 it emailed him to advise 
him as follows: 
We just wanted to remind you that although you have cancelled or upgraded your 
airtime contract your [supplier] policy is still active for [old phone].
If youd like to keep your insurance policy active for the device mentioned above, 
you dont need to do anything. If you want to cancel your policy, please give us a 
call on [number supplied].
I dont think this is necessarily inconsistent with insurance transferring to a new phone. It 
could be read as a reminder to Mr F that as he now has a new phone covered by the policy, 
if he no longer wishes to keep insurance in place for the old phone, he needs to cancel that 
cover. 
I think it should have been brought more clearly to Mr Fs attention in the email above that 
his new phone was not currently covered. Had it done so this complaint is unlikely to have 
been made.
My conclusion is that it was reasonable for Mr F to have expected that his insurance 
wouldve been transferred to his new phone and that if he didnt want to continue cover for 
his old phone, hed need to contact WDP. I dont think its fair for WDP to continue to take 
premiums for the insurance of a phone when it knows the customer has replaced it with a 
different one and that the new phone isnt covered.
I also agree with our investigators view that as WDP says it was continuing to insure Mr Fs 
old phone they were only on risk if he still had it. Im persuaded by what Ive heard Mr F say to our investigator about his disposal of this phone. As WDP ceased to be on risk for it after 
Mr F acquired his new phone its therefore not unreasonable to require it to reimburse the 
premiums he paid for a phone he no longer had.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for WDP to reimburse to Mr F 
the premiums he paid it from 13 October 2020 until he cancelled the policy or it was 
updated to include his new phone.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint.
I require WDP Insurance Limited to reimburse to Mr F the premiums he paid it from 13 
October 2020 until he cancelled his policy or it was updated to include his new phone.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman