DRN-2888469
The complaint
Ms H complains about her mortgage with Santander UK Plc. She says it has kept asking her 
to pay different amounts towards her arrears and hasnt given her clear information about 
the position of her account. She also says its solicitors didnt communicate with her properly. 
And she says Santander isnt charging a fair rate of interest.
What happened
Ms H has an interest only mortgage with Santander. She has been in arrears for some 
years, and for part of that time the account was managed by Santanders solicitors, with a 
view to taking repossession action.
Ms H complains that the solicitors began court action in 2015 without informing her. An 
arrangement to pay was agreed, and court proceedings didnt go ahead. It was agreed that 
Ms H would pay £480 per month  which was her monthly payment, plus around £41 
towards the arrears.
Ms H was paying Santanders standard variable rate (SVR) and in 2016 Santander changed 
the rate following an increase in the Bank of England base rate. As a result, Ms Hs 
contractual monthly payment increased from £439 to £468. Santander wrote to Ms H telling 
her that this was now her monthly payment.
 Ms H started paying £469 per month, rather than the £480 agreed under the arrangement. 
In 2017, Santander wrote to Ms H saying that it was considering re-starting the court 
proceedings, because Ms H had not kept to the arrangement that had been agreed. 
Ms H complains that she was given confusing information about what to pay. She received 
letters from Santander telling her that her monthly payment was £468, but also telling her 
she wasnt paying enough and that she needed to pay an extra £12 per month. And she said 
the solicitors gave her contradictory information too. And she says that around £2,000 has 
been added to her account in legal fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Following my involvement, 
Santander agreed to re-work the mortgage as if Ms H had been on the follow on rate since 
January 2018. I set out my view of whether that was fair and reasonable in a provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
I said:
Ms H complains about how Santander and its solicitors have managed her arrears, and in 
particular about leaving her confused about what she needed to pay.
Ms H has been in arrears since 2012. By 2015, the arrears had peaked at just over £5,000 
and Santander decided to begin court proceedings. Its solicitors wrote to her representative 
rather than to Ms H direct, but I dont think that was unreasonable  where someone is 
represented its proper for the solicitors to do that. And Ms H did become aware of the 
proceedings.
Fortunately an arrangement was agreed, for Ms H to pay £480 per month  which was 
around £41 on top of the monthly payment, and this continued for some time. In some 
months Ms H didnt pay the agreed arrangement in full, but by and large she kept to it. 
In 2016, Santander changed its SVR following a change in the Bank of England base rate. 
This meant that the SVR increased  and so did Ms Hs contractual monthly payment.
In fact, Ms H wasnt paying the contractual payment, she was paying £480 per month under
the terms of the arrangement.
But the underlying contractual payment did change, and the mortgage regulations required 
Santander to write to her and tell her what the new contractual payment was.
The contractual payment had gone up from £439 to £468. This meant that of the £480 Ms H 
was paying, only £12 was now contributing to the arrears.
Ms H was confused by this. She understood the letter from Santander to mean that she 
should now pay £468 instead of the £480 arrangement. But that wasnt right. Santander had 
to tell her the new contractual payment  its part of the rules  but that didnt change the fact 
that she was actually supposed to be paying more than that under the terms of the
arrangement. And I do think Santander and its solicitors tried to explain that to Ms H.
Much the same thing happened when the SVR changed again in 2018, reducing back down 
to its previous level. The contractual monthly payment dropped back down, meaning that of 
the £480, £41 was now contributing to the arrears again.
Ms H thought that this was a demand from Santander to pay an extra £41 each month  but 
I dont think it was. She was being asked to pay the same £480 under the terms of the 
arrangement.
Because of her confusion about this, Ms H didnt keep to the arrangement. From 2016, she 
was paying £468. And she didnt keep to the £480 in 2018 either.
This meant that Santander instructed its solicitors to start the process of returning to court  
though in fact that hadnt happened before Ms H complained, and action has been on hold 
since then because of first her complaint and then the coronavirus pandemic.
While there was confusion, I dont think Santander treated Ms H unfairly. When the 
contractual monthly payment changes, its required by the regulator to write to Ms H and tell 
her that  even though she wasnt paying the contractual payment, she was paying a higher 
arrangement. I think both Santander and the solicitors did try to explain to her what was 
going on and what she needed to pay.
Ms H also complains about the legal fees added to her mortgage. I dont think they were 
unfair. Under the terms of her mortgage contract Santander is allowed to add the costs of 
taking legal action to the mortgage balance. And, because Ms H has been in arrears since 
2012 and the solicitors have been involved since at least 2015, I dont think the overall 
amount added is unreasonable. So I dont uphold this part of her complaint either.
Ms H also complains about the interest rate. She asked for new rates in 2010 and 2012. She 
complained about a refusal in 2010 to Santander, though not to us. That complaint is now 
out of time. And although she didnt complain about the 2012 refusal at the time, its too late under the time limit rules for her to complain about it now. Our investigator explained that to 
Ms H and she accepted it, so Ill say no more about those instances here.
More recently, Ms H asked for a new rate in 2015 and again at intervals thereafter, including 
in early 2018.
Santander refused to give her a new lower fixed interest rate. It said this was because Ms H 
was in arrears, and not eligible for a rate.
Its Santanders policy not to offer fixed rates to customers in arrears, and there are sound 
reasons for that in most cases. A loan in arrears presents more risk to the lender. And 
theres also a risk to the borrower  if the arrears are such that theres a repossession or the 
property has to be sold, a fixed rate comes with an early repayment charge (ERC). An ERC 
can be up to 5% of the loan balance, and its not generally a good idea to apply a fixed rate 
to a property that could be sold for that reason.
Balanced against, that, however, is Santanders regulatory obligation to assist borrowers in 
arrears get the mortgage back on track. And, in some cases, a new fixed rate might be a fair 
way to do that  for example where a rate makes the difference between the mortgage being 
affordable or not. Or where the borrowers financial difficulties have stabilised and theyre 
making their monthly payments and clearing the arrears.
In this particular case, I dont think that applies. In early 2015 when Ms H asked about a rate, 
the arrears werent under control and court proceedings were being considered. In the years 
following that, Ms H by and large made the monthly payments  but didnt always keep to 
the arrangement and didnt always make payments on time.
In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Santander to refuse a new fixed rate. 
However, in early 2018, Santander brought in a new rate to replace its SVR for newer 
mortgages. This was the follow on rate (FOR). The FOR is roughly 1% lower than the SVR, 
and unlike the SVR the FOR tracks the Bank of England base rate. While the FOR applied to 
new mortgages and new fixed rates, existing customers could apply to move over from the 
SVR too.
This would have benefitted Ms H. It would have reduced her interest rate, and so her 
contractual monthly payments  meaning more of the £480 per month could have been used 
to reduce the arrears. And the FOR has no ERC attached to it  so the objections to a new 
fixed rate dont apply.
Santander has now recognised that it could have moved Ms H over to the FOR from the 
SVR. It has offered to re-calculate her mortgage so that it is as if the FOR had applied from 
January 2018. This will mean that the arrears will reduce a little, and the contractual monthly 
payment will also come down. I think thats a fair way forward.
However, that wont resolve Ms Hs situation. Shes explained that, while the complaint has 
been with us, she has lost her job and started claiming benefits, and shes been affected by 
the coronavirus pandemic. The result is that for some time she wasnt able to make any 
payments to the mortgage at all  and so the arrears have gone back up again. 
Now this complaint is over, Ms H will therefore need to get in touch with Santander and 
explain her current circumstances. Santander will need to consider her situation, look at her 
income and expenditure, and see if its possible to come to another arrangement to get the 
mortgage back on track. Its really important that both Ms H and Santander put this 
complaint behind them and work together to find a way forward  if one is possible.The responses to my provisional decision
Santander didnt add anything further to what it had already said.
Ms H said that Santander should have told her about the intended legal proceedings direct in 
2015. It was presumptuous to assume she would use the same solicitors as before.
Ms H said she had paid what she believed she was expected to pay and hadnt been told 
otherwise. So its not her fault if she wasnt paying the correct amount. Santander and its 
solicitors didnt explain things to her properly. Its not fair to charge her fees caused by 
failings of Santander and its solicitors. And if she had been on a fair rate of interest, none of 
this would have happened. 
Ms H also wanted to make clear that she hadnt lost her job; she is self-employed. She was 
able to resume work from July 2020, though because of the pandemic there is much less 
work available in her profession than there was previously and her income has substantially 
reduced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms H has said carefully. But I havent changed my mind. I dont think, 
for the reasons I gave, that it would have been fair to require Santander to have offered a 
fixed rate in 2015. And it was reasonable for Santanders solicitors to communicate with her 
solicitors; thats what is supposed to happen where parties are represented.
And while Santander and its solicitors could have communicated more clearly, it was 
required by regulation to send the letters it did. And its also fair to say that at times Ms H 
didnt keep to the arrangement that was in place.
Putting things right
Once the follow on rate became available, a rate with no product fee and no ERC, 
Santander could have applied it to Ms Hs mortgage. It would have reduced what she was 
paying to meet each months payment, and meant that more could have been used to 
reduce the arrears. Santander should re-calculate the mortgage as if the follow on rate had 
applied from January 2018.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Santander UK Plcs offer to resolve this complaint by putting the 
mortgage on the follow on rate, backdated to January 2018, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Any resulting overpayments should be used to reduce the arrears. 
Santander should then contact Ms H to tell her the up-to-date position of the account and 
discuss matters to see if a way forward can be agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman