DRN-3366929
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In September 2010 Mr and Mrs R purchased a timeshare membership from a timeshare 
provider (Business A). Mr R borrowed money from BPF to pay the full purchase price for 
the timeshare of £13,500. He repaid this amount in full in March 2011. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs R contacted BPF via a representative to make a claim under 
section 75 and section 140A of the CCA, because BPF provided the credit for Mr R to buy 
the timeshare. In summary, their representative said Business A misrepresented the contract 
to Mr and Mrs R by providing false and untrue statements of fact to induce them into 
entering the contract to their detriment. Mr and Mrs Rs representative said they only 
became aware of the misrepresentations later on during the ownership of the timeshare, 
when all the points and reasons why they bought the timeshare were the complete opposite.
In response, BPF said their section 75 claim was time-barred under the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). They said the relevant time limit for a misrepresentation claim is six years from the 
date of loss, which was the point at which the timeshare sale was completed. So, because 
they raised their claim in 2019, which is more than 6 years after the timeshare sale in 2010, 
Mr and Mrs R were out of time to bring any claim in respect of the issues they say happened 
at the time their timeshare agreement was sold. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative said that they suffered a loss at the point of sale, but they 
werent aware of the misrepresentation at the point of sale, and only became aware a few 
years later. So, they said the claim was brought within the relevant six year limitation period. 
Unhappy with BPFs response, Mr and Mrs R referred their complaint to our service via their 
representative. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He concluded that both the section 75 
and the section 140A claims were raised out of time under the LA because their claim was 
raised more than six years after the date of sale, and more than six years since they repaid 
the finance. So, he didnt think BPF acted unfairly in turning down their claims on this basis. 
Mr R disagreed. He referred to a previous loan from 2003 in Mr and Mrs Rs names, which 
was used to finance another timeshare purchase with Business A. He believes the finance 
companies involved have been complicit in the mis-selling of the timeshare scheme. He said 
the law changed in 2000, which made the selling of a timeshare with perpetuity illegal, 
therefore, to continue to promote finance agreements after this date was wrong. Mr R said 
the finance companies knew what the finance was for, as is clear in the documents.
Mr R said they purchased their timeshare in good faith, hoping to have many years of stress 
free holidays and unfortunately nothing could be further from the truth. He said they have 
been trying to exit their timeshare for some years now with no success and had they known 
about the perpetuity part they would not have entered into such an agreement. He felt the 
investigators reasons around the time limit of six years seems to excuse the finance 
companies from ensuring they are within the law. Mr R said they repaid the agreement in full 
early because it was prudent to do so as the interest rate was high, and he didnt think this 
altered the mis-selling. Mr R said if theyd known at the time that this was and is a scam, 
they would never have entered into it. So, he didnt think theyd been treated fairly.
Our investigator explained that he wasnt trying to excuse BPF from dealing with the merits 
of the claim. However, for the reasons he explained in his view, he thought it was most likely 
a court would conclude that the claims were brought outside of the relevant time limits in the 
LA, and therefore he thought BPFs response to their claims was reasonable. Because Mr R 
disagreed, the case was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr R, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Firstly, I think its important to make clear that I have only considered the finance that 
BPF provided in 2010 to fund the relevant timeshare purchase at that time. I note Mr R 
has more recently referred to another loan that was taken out in 2003 for another 
timeshare sale, but this wasnt included in the original claim to BPF that was raised by 
their representative in January 2019. Mr and Mrs R can raise a separate complaint 
about the 2003 loan if they wish to do so. 
Secondly, the credit facility that BPF provided to finance the 2010 timeshare purchase 
was provided in Mr Rs name only. So, although Mrs R is referred to in the joint 
timeshare agreement, she is not party to the credit agreement with BPF that was used 
to pay for it. This means only Mr R is entitled to bring a claim under the CCA against 
BPF. I will therefore refer to Mr R in my findings, as the eligible complainant in this case. 
The relevant law
In this case, section 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr R paid for goods or services using certain 
types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible. 
Mr R also raised a claim under section 140A of the CCA. Under this section a court may 
make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement if it decides 
that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out of the agreement is 
unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think this is 
relevant law and I have taken it into account.
However, if the creditor can show that any claims under section 75 or 140A of the CCA 
were brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on 
the LA as a defence to answering those claims, as BPF is seeking to do in this case. 
So, I must also take the LA into account, as relevant law. 
The key issue I need to decide here is whether BPF acted reasonably when refusing to 
consider Mr Rs claims on the basis that they were made out of time. I should make it 
clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right that Mr R may have to bring these 
claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im 
considering if BPF has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Rs claims. 
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr R says that Business A misrepresented a number of points in relation to the timeshare 
agreement he purchased, so he says BPF is jointly liable for the misrepresentations under 
section 75 of the CCA. 
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by section 2 of the LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within section 9 of the LA. Under both of 
those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
In this case, Mr Rs claim for misrepresentation against BPF was brought under the CCA, 
so would be covered by section 9 of the LA. This means Mr R had six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued to bring a claim. The date on which a cause of action 
accrued is the point in time that everything needed to make a legal claim occurred. So, in 
Mr Rs case, thats when he could have brought a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that was the date he entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare, so in September 2010. It was at that time that he entered 
into an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of Business A. Mr R says, 
had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. So it 
was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he took out the credit facility with BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 24 September 2010 (when 
Mr R entered into the credit agreement with BPF), so Mr R had six years from that date to 
bring a claim. But he didnt try to contact BPF about his claim until January 2019, which 
was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down 
Mr Rs misrepresentation claim on this basis.
The claim under s.140A CCA
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the relationship between the debtor and the 
creditor ended. 
In this case, Mr R repaid the £13,500 he borrowed from BPF on 17 March 2011 and no 
longer owed any money under his credit agreement from that point onward. So, like the 
investigator, I think his relationship with BPF, in relation to the funds he borrowed to 
purchase the timeshare membership in 2010, ended on the date he settled his account 
with them. So, the time for limitation purposes started to run from that point onward.
As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the relevant limitation period under the LA 
is six years, so Mr R would have had to bring an action within six years from 17 March 
2011. This meant he had until 17 March 2017. As he didnt bring his claim until 23 January 
2019 (via his representative at the time), I think he also brought his section 140A claim too 
late. 
Conclusion
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said Mr Rs claims 
were brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr R may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim he might have against BPF has most likely 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account 
in these circumstances. So, I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in declining Mr Rs 
claims under the CCA. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R, as I understand he feels the 
six year time limit under the LA is allowing BPF to avoid liability. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think BPF did anything wrong by relying on the LA to decline his claims. 
This means I wont be asking it to do anything further in response to Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman