DRN-2832811
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about delays when they applied to Lloyds Bank PLC for a further 
advance. They say this delayed their plans to improve their property, caused stress and 
theyve paid extra interest on other debts. Theyd like compensation for this, and for the 
further advance to be provided.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a mortgage with Lloyds. They contacted Lloyds in early 2019 about a 
further advance of about £58,000. There were delays in the process. Lloyds declined their 
application in late 2020. Mr and Mrs R say they cant apply elsewhere because they have a 
fixed interest rate product with an early repayment charge. 
Our investigator said while Lloyds had caused some delays its payment of £500 
compensation was fair. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman to decide. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr R says Lloyds issued a decision in principle and agreed to lend subject to address 
checks. He says it was because Lloyds couldnt locate the property (despite having a 
mortgage on it) that led to delays and meant the mortgage was reviewed by the 
underwriters. Mr R says if it hadnt been for this the locally based mortgage adviser would 
have approved the advance. He says Lloyds changed its lending policy during the delays.
I think Mr R has misunderstood Lloyds process. A decision in principle isnt an offer to lend. 
A mortgage offer is always subject to the lender completing its checks. The regulator 
requires lenders to carry out stringent affordability tests before offering or varying a 
mortgage. Id expect Lloyds to ask for evidence of Mr and Mrs Rs income, expenditure and 
financial commitments to do this. If the application takes longer than expected  for whatever 
reason  Lloyds would need to update this information and evidence. Its entitled to ask 
questions and for further information and evidence if its not satisfied with what it receives. 
And theres nothing unusual about the application being referred to the underwriters. I would 
also say that Lloyds is entitled to apply its lending criteria, so long as it does so fairly. 
Mr and Mrs R made applications for a further advance in January and March 2019. Lloyds 
doesnt keep information about applications that dont progress. While Mr R says he tried to 
progress the applications he hasnt provided evidence to support this. Its not clear why 
these applications didnt progress, or if Lloyds was at fault. 
Mr and Mrs R made a new application in January 2020. The underwriters asked for 
information. By April 2020 Mr and Mrs R had provided some, but not all, of this information. 
The application didnt progress between April and October 2020. Lloyds accepted 
responsibility for this, saying it cant evidence that it asked Mr and Mrs R for the missing 
information. It offered compensation and said it would look at the application on an expedited 
basis.
Lloyds said a new application would be needed. It said it hadnt received all of the 
information it required. It noted gaps and inconsistencies with the information it had, and due 
to the time passed the information needed to be updated. I appreciate this was inconvenient 
for Mr and Mrs R, but I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask for complete and up to date 
information and evidence. As Ive said, regulations require it to make thorough checks that 
mortgages are affordable. 
Mr and Mrs R made a new application, which Lloyds immediately declined due to a failed 
credit score. It said it couldnt override this due to concerns about Mr and Mrs Rs unsecured 
debts and discrepancies between what Mr and Mrs R told the mortgage adviser about their 
credit commitments and the results of its credit check. 
Mr R says the application would have been agreed if there hadnt been delays. The evidence 
doesnt support this. Lloyds had similar concerns in early 2020 about the level of Mr and 
Mrs Rs unsecured debts, the increase in their indebtedness and discrepancies between 
their stated commitments and its credit check. It was concerned that the further borrowing 
would take Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage outside its loan to value criteria. I dont think I can fairly 
find that Lloyds would have offered further borrowing if there hadnt been delays. While Mr R 
says Lloyds declined their application due to a change of policy, Lloyds says this isnt the 
case. 
Mr and Mrs R took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in February 2019. Mr R says the 
mortgage adviser told them they had to take out a new product before the application for 
further borrowing could progress. I havent seen evidence to support this. 
The fixed interest rate product includes an early repayment charge if Mr and Mrs R repay the 
mortgage before April 2024. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R hoped Lloyds would offer a 
further advance, and they cant now re-mortgage elsewhere without paying the ERC. 
Nonetheless, Mr and Mrs R agreed to the ERC when they took out the product. And I 
havent seen evidence that they were misled by Lloyds that it would certainly offer further 
lending. 
There were delays here, and Lloyds has accepted responsibility for some of the delays. I 
already explained why I think its unlikely Lloyds would have offered further lending if there 
hadnt been delays. Mr and Mrs R took out a new fixed interest rate product in February 
2019, shortly after first applying for further borrowing. So even if Lloyds had told them more 
promptly that it wouldnt offer further borrowing, theyd have been unable to re-mortgage 
elsewhere without paying an ERC.
I dont think Mr and Mrs R have shown any financial loss as a result of these delays. No 
doubt though the delays and being asked for updated information was inconvenient. Lloyds 
paid £500 compensation for this. In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman