DRN-2904085
The complaint
Miss K complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) decision on 
liability following her car insurance claim. Miss K is also unhappy about the handling of her 
claim.  
What happened
Miss K was involved in an accident which she reported to Advantage. Advantage say, based 
on Miss Ks description of the damage, they deemed the car repairable and instructed their 
approved repairer to collect the car and provide an estimate. Advantage say they then 
cancelled the instruction and instead instructed their salvage agents to collect the car. 
Advantage say they clarified the car was likely to be repairable and the salvage agents had 
been incorrectly instructed. They cancelled the instruction to the salvage agents and 
reinstructed the approved repairer. However, the salvage agents still collected the car. And, 
while the car was onsite with the salvage agents, an engineer report found the car to be a 
total loss. Miss K wasnt happy with the assessment so it was arranged for the car to be 
delivered to Miss Ks own selected garage who also deemed the car a total loss. Advantage 
then paid Miss K a settlement after deducting a £90 charge for delivering the car to her 
selected garage.  
Miss K complained about the confusion caused around whether her car was repairable or a 
total loss. She also complained about the engineers report and that Advantage hadnt 
looked into liability. Advantage responded and accepted there had been issues with their 
service. They agreed there had been confusion at the outset with the car being deemed 
repairable but still being collected by the salvage agents. They said the engineers report did 
comment on the damage but they cant include how much it costs for repairs as those details 
are business sensitive. Advantage agreed they hadnt looked into liability despite telling  
Miss K they would look into this. They confirmed they would now be investigating liability. 
Advantage apologised for their errors and said they had issued £100 compensation by bank 
transfer. Advantage looked into liability and felt that Miss K was responsible for the accident.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss K. He thought Advantage hadnt acted unfairly in 
their liability assessment and he felt they had acted reasonably in paying compensation for 
the service issues and wouldnt be recommending any further action. Miss K disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Claim liability 
My starting point is Miss Ks car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, under the heading General conditions, Advantage has the right to take 
over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and also to take legal action over 
any claim. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Advantage to make a decision on the claim as the 
policy allows them to take such steps. That said, Miss K isnt happy with Advantages 
decision to hold her responsible for the accident. So, I will now consider whether Advantage 
acted fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
Advantage say the third-partys car was stationary in the road after it had been involved in an 
accident with another party. They say Miss K then hit the third-partys car. They say the 
accident which had occurred prior to Miss Ks collision had written off the third-partys car so 
the third-party insurer confirmed they wouldnt be pursuing Advantage for any damage. 
Advantage say, at the time of Miss Ks collision the third party wasnt in their car or at the 
scene  as they were being taken to hospital. They say, for the third-party to be responsible 
they need to have been negligent. And, given they werent at the scene, they cant be held 
responsible. Advantage say Miss K has a duty to drive with due care and attention and to 
allow enough braking distance to avoid hazards. They say Miss K is solely responsible for 
her collision and as such they have no prospect of recovering their outlay. 
I can see from claim notes provided by Advantage, the third-party insurer contact them to 
discuss the accident circumstances. The third-party insurer explain their insured was 
involved in a collision with another party which led to their insureds car flipping onto its 
roof/side. The note says the third-party was then taken to hospital and wasnt aware of    
Miss Ks car then hitting his car. Miss K denies she hit the third-party car. She says the other 
accident happened in front of her. Miss K says the third-partys car was overturned and the 
other drivers car was positioned in a way which obscured her view so she had to swerve 
away from the third-partys overturned car. She says the third-party was still in their car and 
the damage to her car was caused by having to drive over a tyre which had become 
detached from their car.  
I can see Miss K emails Advantage to say all I ever get back is I hit a stationary vehicle 
... which really is the most basic way anyone could describe what happened. It feels like 
someone has just read it and decided theres no point in pursuing the attempt to claim 
because Ive hit a stationary vehicle. Despite the fact that it was unavoidable, the accident 
happened seconds before and was cause [sic] by reckless driving on the behalf of
another party.  
I think its important for me to clarify my role isnt to determine liability but to decide whether I 
think Advantage have acted fairly and reasonably when arriving at their decision. Taking into 
account all the information Ive seen, I dont think Advantage have acted unreasonably when 
deciding liability  Ill explain why. The information from the third-party suggests Miss K 
collided with the third-partys car. The claim notes include emails from Miss K which make 
reference to her colliding with the third-party car and another where she refers to the 
damage to her car being caused by driving over a tyre which had become detached. I dont 
think it matters which of these events occurred which led to the damage to Miss Ks car. I 
say this because the information shows an accident had already taken place which left the 
third-partys car and another car stationary in the road  and Miss Ks car was then involved 
in a separate collision. 
Advantage say Miss K mentions that the accident happened right in front of her, meaning 
that she should have been driving far enough behind to have a safe braking distance in case 
she had to stop in an emergency. They say, Miss K also mentions that she saw the accident happened in front of her but alludes to it being in the distance. They say Miss K has also 
drawn the road to be straight in her diagram meaning that she had nothing blocking her view 
of the incident and giving her plenty of time to see the vehicle overturned and applying the 
brakes to avoid the incident. I dont think its unreasonable for Advantage to take this view 
given the accident circumstances and the information they had obtained.  
I can see theres a dispute here between the parties around whether the third-party was in 
his car when Miss Ks collision occurred. I understand Miss K feels Advantage have 
recorded this incorrectly but its clear from the claim notes Advantage have relied on 
information provided by the third-party insurer who say their insureds car was unattended at 
the time of Miss Ks collision. Miss K says Advantage should obtain the police report and 
feels they have acted unfairly in making a decision on liability without this. She says the 
police report will prove the third-party driver was still in his car when her collision occurred.
I note Miss K feels the police report is important and I understand shes concerned 
Advantage havent carried out a sufficient investigation by not obtaining this information. I 
think Advantage did have sufficient information on which to base their decision on liability so 
I dont think it was unreasonable for them to not obtain the police report. While a police 
report might well prove the third-party was in his car, Advantage say it wont add any weight 
to the information they already know  and I dont think its unreasonable for Advantage to 
take this view. 
Advantage say the police report will need to prove negligence on the third-party. They say, 
whether the third-party was injured in their car following the original accident or whether he 
was injured and on his way to hospital - neither of these scenarios would attach negligence 
on the part of the third-party for the separate collision involving Miss Ks car. They say the 
police report may provide clear timings on the events that took place to support Miss Ks 
version of events that a separate accident happened right before her collision occurred. 
They say this is something they are already aware of but it wouldnt assist in recovering their 
outlay.    
I note Miss K says the police assured her she wasnt at fault. She says she is included in the 
police report which includes her testimony about the circumstances involving her collision. 
Miss K says one of the other two parties are responsible for her accident as they were 
involved in a high speed head on crash. The police report will note the accident 
circumstances and also include any witness statements but its not the role of the police 
report to determine liability. So, even if the police gave an assurance to Miss K that she 
wasnt at fault, the decision on liability rests with the insurer. And, for the reasons I have set 
out, I think Advantage have acted reasonably in their assessment on liability.   
Categorisation of write-off
I understand Miss K is concerned that Advantage didnt correctly categorise the damage to 
her car. Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the 
damage, and thats what Advantage did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for 
Advantage to rely on the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. 
Advantage instructed an engineer to carry out a full inspection of Miss Ks car. The 
engineers report comments on the damage and contains photos showing the damage to 
Miss Ks car and deems it a category N total loss. I can see Miss K wanted her car assessed 
by her own garage. This was done and this engineer also comments on the damage and 
deems the car a category N total loss.  
An engineer is qualified to comment on damage to a car so it was reasonable for Advantage 
to take into account both engineers findings to assist their decision to write off Miss Ks car 
as a category N. I think the information theyve considered is relevant to carry out an assessment and to then form an opinion. So, taking this into account, I cant say Advantage  
have acted unfairly in treating Miss Ks car as a category N write-off.  
I can see Miss K was required to pay a £90 charge for her car to be delivered to her garage. 
Advantage told Miss K this would be deducted from her settlement if her garage confirm her 
car as a total loss. This does later prove to be the case with the garage agreeing with 
Advantages engineer. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Advantage to charge this. 
Handling of the claim 
The facts in relation to this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Advantage accept they got 
things wrong at the outset of the claim when changing the details of Miss Ks car from 
repairable to total loss. And, by not initially looking into liability despite telling Miss K they 
would. I think its right that Advantage should compensate Miss K. To acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience caused, Advantage have offered £100 compensation which they 
say has been paid by bank transfer. I agree there has been an impact on Miss K caused by 
Advantages errors  but I think it has been limited. Although Miss Ks car was collected by 
the salvage agents  which was contrary to her being told her car was repairable  it did 
eventually turn out to be the case her car was deemed a write off so I cant say this had any 
wider impact on the claim. And, while Advantage didnt initially look into liability, they did then 
investigate this - and I cant see the short delay caused any problems in Advantages 
assessment on liability. I think £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects 
the confusion and frustration caused to Miss K.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman