DRN-3591937
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr S was abroad and made two purchases using his card at the same merchant on 25 
January 2021. He says that after he input his PIN the amount changed. And instead of being 
charged about £27 sterling equivalent, the amounts debited to his account were £627.19 and 
£313.60 including fees.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding this money. These payments were made using the PIN 
and were in person so it couldnt dispute them. It recognised that Mr S had submitted a 
dispute form on 29 January 2021, and it hadnt given him this answer until May 2021. And 
that it wrongly credited the amounts back on 10 September 2021. At the time of its final 
response it said that the amount of £313.60 still hadnt been re-debited and it intended to do 
so. HSBC offered to pay Mr S £200 for the poor service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more that it had offered to. He 
said that Mr S accepted he made transactions at this merchant using his card. This issue 
was that he disputed the amounts. HSBC hadnt raised a chargeback despite repeated 
contact by Mr S. But he hadnt been able to provide this service with any documentation 
apart from the card payment receipts. So, he didnt think that a chargeback would have 
succeeded. 
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think that his evidence had been considered fairly. The 
payments had been recredited which meant that the person authorising this was satisfied 
with what hed said. He wanted an ombudsmans review and thought wed favoured HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the card payment receipts provided by Mr S. These are denominated in local 
currency. One relating to the lower amount had a time of 07:12 and the other a time of 
07:32. Mr S says he noticed that the amounts were different when hed input his PIN. And 
that he was told by the merchant to dispute this with his bank as the machine was faulty. He 
doesnt have any receipt or invoice which sets out the goods or service he purchased and 
what it had been agreed that these would cost.
He's provided evidence of his calls to HSBC about this. And his regular contact with HSBC 
in live online chat after hed raised a dispute. It didnt send him a letter until 7 May 2021.    
Mr S was clearly unhappy and for reasons which arent totally clear HSBC went on to refund 
both transactions in error on 10 September 2021. Mr S says one was reversed within 
minutes. And HSBC has confirmed to him that both will be re-debited, and hell be held liable 
for them.
Our investigator has referred to the chargeback scheme which is run by the main card 
issuers. Id expect HSBC to pursue a chargeback where there were grounds to do so. Here 
Mr S had nothing to support his dispute. And under the relevant card scheme rules HSBC 
would need to have something to evidence that the amounts were incorrect. The point is that 
the card scheme and not HSBC would have made the decision about a chargeback.
Even if as our investigator says a chargeback had been raised I agree that it most likely 
wouldnt have been successful. That again relates to the payments being made using the 
PIN and the lack of any evidence to support a mistake being made.
Im afraid that while Mr S evidence of multiple contact with HSBC and its error in making a 
temporary refund shows the poor service hed received; it doesnt support that there ought to 
have been a different outcome. Or in my view that it is unreasonable for HSBC to hold him 
responsible for the full payments. It was satisfied hed authorised them and I agree that this 
was most likely here on the available evidence.
HSBC has offered to pay him £200 in compensation, and I think thats fair. I again want to 
alert Mr S to HSBCs intention, if it hasnt already done so, to re-debit the temporary credit of 
£313.60 too. I dont have a basis to say that this is incorrect, and it is a matter for HSBC to 
deal with that. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr S £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman