DRN-3092203
The complaint
Mr G complains Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund some disputed transactions.
Lloyds say Mr G is not entitled to a refund as it considers the payments to have been 
authorised.
What happened
Mr G contacted Lloyds to say that he had lost his personal phone, Lloyds card and another 
business card which belonged to an account held with N.  He thought this had happened 
whilst he was at a local shopping centre with his family and had realised the items were 
missing when he was sat at a restaurant.
Mr G said he had last used his Lloyds card earlier that morning at a petrol station  and had 
last used his card with N in the shopping centre.  Both cards were kept on the inside of his 
phone case.
He had returned home and was using his friends phone to call Lloyds.  He had also 
remembered that he had a business phone which he had used to log on to his online 
banking using biometrics.  In this case, a fingerprint.  He told this service that his personal 
mobile phone was a model known as a J3 and his business phone was a model known as 
an S10. 
Lloyds looked into his complaint but told him it was not going to be refunded the payments.  
It sent a final response to Mr G dated 22nd October 2020.  In short, it thought the payments 
had been authorised because: 
- they were made using Mr Gs card and PIN, there had been no balance enquiries, so 
Lloyds concluded the person using the card was aware of the balance
- there was no credible explanation as to how Mr Gs PIN had been compromised and 
finally 
- the phone used to log onto Mr Gs online banking was a phone which had been 
registered on the account since September 2020.  Lloyds said this showed that he 
had not in fact lost his phone as alleged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid its bad news for Mr G because I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anymore here either and really for similar reasons as already set out by the investigator.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant rules which apply to Mr Gs complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs 2017).  What these rules say is that Lloyds must refund these transactions if 
they are unauthorised  and it is for Lloyds to show they were authorised rather than for Mr 
G to show they were not.
Authorisation has two elements  authentication and consent  and the burden is on Lloyds 
to prove both elements.
From the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that these transactions were authenticated  
that is the use of Mr Gs genuine card and PIN being used.  So, then I need to decide 
whether Mr G consented to these payments being made.
My starting point in this case is the evidence surrounding the mobile phone.  As the 
investigator has explained already, the phone which was used to log onto Mr Gs online 
banking on the day of the disputed transactions was the phone which had already been 
registered to Mr Gs account  in other words, the phone which Mr G said he had lost.  The 
evidence from Lloyds is quite clear.
Mr G accepts he was the one who logged on  so I can only conclude that he was still in 
possession of the phone which he had told Lloyds he had lost, along with his cards.  What 
that means therefore, is that I think care needs to be taken when assessing the credibility of 
Mr G as a witness.  
As Ive concluded Mr G was in possession of the lost phone, I think its fair to conclude that 
he was still in possession of his Lloyds card.  It follows, therefore, that the card couldnt have 
been in the hands of a fraudster.
I note that Mr G didnt contest this part of the investigators view  so Im not sure whether he 
challenges this aspect.  He simply responded to say that he hadnt shared his details with 
anyone, and I agree  I dont think he did.
Ive also relied on the fact that there had been no credible explanation of how Mr Gs PIN 
had been compromised and the fact that without a balance enquiry being carried out, the 
transactions appeared to stop when the balance had been used up.  I think this means that 
the person making the transactions knew what the balance was.
I think its more than likely that Mr G made these transactions.  I dont know why he then 
proceeded to tell Lloyds he had not  but thats not a matter for me.
In the circumstances, I think they were authorised, and I wont be asking Lloyds to make any 
refunds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman