DRN-4135572
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank gave her wrong 
information about her outstanding balance.
What happened
Mrs M rang Tesco to see what she owed on her account, and she was told by the call 
handler she had an outstanding balance of £311.97. Mrs M informed the call handler that 
she had a pending payment that she had made for £53 the week before. She says that the 
call handler told her that this payment hadnt cleared, and when it did, her outstanding 
balance would be £258.97. Mrs M made a faster payment for £258.97, but when the 
payment cleared she had an outstanding balance of £53. Mrs M made a complaint to Tesco.
Tesco upheld Mrs Ms complaint and credited £25 to her account. They said she had been 
provided with misinformation over the phone as her outstanding balance was actually 
£311.97 at the time of the call and the £53 had cleared to her account prior to the call. Mrs M 
brought her complaint to our service as she did not feel the compensation awarded was 
sufficient for the impact this had on her. She wanted an extra £50 compensation and the £53 
balance to be written off.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. She said Tesco made an error which theyve 
acknowledged, but she didnt feel the compensation offered reflected the distress this 
caused to Mrs M and this caused her inconvenience. She said Tesco should pay Mrs M a 
total of £50 (so an extra £25 compensation). Tesco asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint as they said there hadnt been a financial loss to Mrs M, and she hadnt been 
under any obligation to pay anything further until her following statement, so they were 
unsure why this would cause significant worry or distress and disagreed a one off error 
warranted an extra £25 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair for Tesco to write off the £53 balance that Mrs M has 
suggested they do as regardless of the error Tesco made, this was money that she 
legitimately owed them, so it wouldnt be proportionate for me to ask them to write this 
money off.
Both parties disagree on what is fair compensation for Tescos error. Tesco feel that as there 
was no financial loss to Mrs M, that £25 compensation was fair, whereas Mrs M says the 
error caused her distress and inconvenience and Tesco should pay her an extra £50 to 
reflect the impact this had on her. Our investigator suggested an extra £25 compensation 
would be fair to total £50. And Im persuaded this is proportionate and Ill explain why.
I agree with Tesco that Mrs M did not suffer a financial loss. And Im also not persuaded 
there was  as Tesco have put it  significant worry or distress. If there was either of these 
things, then the compensation I would award would be higher.
But its clear to me the impact that the error would have on Mrs M. I say this because it was 
of importance for her to take time out of her day to ring Tesco to find out the exact balance 
she owed at that point in time, to make an accurate payment. And while the call handler told 
her £311.97 was outstanding, Mrs M asked about the payment she made the previous week, 
so she could make a payment to clear her balance which was important to her to do  
otherwise she would have just waited for her statement to make a payment.
But Mrs M was told incorrect information and she acted upon the incorrect information. If the 
call handler was in any doubt about a pending payment, then they could have sought clarity 
on this from a colleague, but Mrs M was provided the wrong balance. So it would have been 
distressing for her to receive her next statement to see a balance of £53 after believing she 
had already paid this amount. So Im not persuaded that the £25 that Tesco paid Mrs M is 
proportionate for what happened here. But Im also not persuaded that the impact of what 
happened here warrants the compensation that Mrs M has asked for, as Im persuaded an 
extra £25 compensation is the fairest outcome here for the reasons Ive already given. So it 
follows Ill be asking Tesco to put things right for Mrs M.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Tesco pays Mrs M a further £25 to total £50 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should 
pay Mrs M a further £25 to total £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman