DRN-1129445
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr L says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr L that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr L says he didnt know he had taken out PPI.
Both Mr L and Barclaycard say the credit card was taken out online. And, based on what I 
understand about Barclaycards sales practices at the time, I think its likely the online form 
wouldve required Mr L to make an active selection to take the PPI.
Barclaycard has also sent us a copy of Mr Ls credit card agreement, which wouldve been 
sent to him after the online form was filled in. This included a section on PPI with a pre-
printed statement saying Mr L wanted his card to be covered. And Mr L signed the 
agreement.
So, based on all the evidence I have, I think Barclaycard did make it clear to Mr L that he 
had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr L chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, Mr L 
wouldve been eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the cover. Mr L mentioned several medical conditions, but he said 
they were all diagnosed significantly after the sale so I dont think they wouldve affected his 
decision.
Mr L also told us he didnt have any sick pay or savings he couldve used to make his 
repayments if he wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr L off taking it out.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
    Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr L,
     that was unfair.
    To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman