DRN-3940833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained about investment advice they received from Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money. 
The complaint was brought on their behalf by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs R received advice from Clydesdale to invest as follows: 
Mr and Mrs R - £7,000 each into a stocks and shares ISA for tax efficient growth and 
income potential  
Mrs R - £40,000 into an Open-Ended Investment Company (OEIC) with investments 
in the High Income Fund, which paid a monthly income into their current account.
Mr and Mrs R surrendered the investments in 2009, making a loss of 24% on the ISAs and 
26% on the OEIC.
Mr and Mrs R complained that the advice in 2006 to invest 74% of their liquid wealth into the 
High Income Fund unit trust and ISAs was unsuitable. On their behalf, the CMC said that 
given their ages and circumstances, it did not believe Mr and Mrs R were in a position to 
recoup any heavy losses suffered at this point in their lives and it questioned why lower risk 
investments were not recommended.
When Mr and Mrs R complained to Clydesdale, it said Mr and Mrs R had left it too late to 
complain about the advice in 2006 because the complaint had been made outside the time 
limits that apply. This prompted Mr and Mrs R to bring their complaint to this service and we 
investigated. 
A decision was made that this was a complaint we could look into. 
Our investigator next considered whether these investments had been suitable 
recommendations for Mr and Mrs R. In brief summary, our investigator felt that 
Mr and Mrs Rs personal circumstances meant they had a diminished capacity for loss and 
they hadnt been in a position to make up any significant investment losses so investing 74% 
of their liquid wealth into just one asset class was unsuitable advice for them. She felt that 
along with the lack of fund diversification, this put Mr and Mrs R at a much higher risk than 
they would have been willing to take and she recommended upholding the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R agreed with our investigators assessment that they had been given unsuitable 
advice and that there was a clear lack of diversification. 
Clydesdale disagreed. It mainly said that Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk was consistent with 
existing investments they held in another fund, the High Income Fund was lower risk than 
their other investments and it was diversified across fund managers. Clydesdale didnt agree 
it had given Mr and Mrs R unsuitable investment advice.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs central argument to be that Clydesdales investment advice 
was unsuitable because it left too much of their money invested in a single asset class which 
over-exposed them financially when they werent in a position either to absorb or recoup 
investment loss.
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Rs overall financial situation and circumstances at 
the time. 
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs R were both retired and in receipt of pension income. 
After all essential expenditure and including an allowance of £500 each month for holidays 
and leisure spending, Mr and Mrs R had net monthly disposable income of £145. 
They owned their own home worth £175,000 free from mortgage and they had no 
outstanding financial liabilities and no dependants to support.
All of the £54,000 they were looking to invest had come from the sale of existing shares 
Mr R had acquired through his workplace share scheme when hed been in employment. 
Mr and Mrs R also held shares worth almost £7,000, they had around £21,000 in a portfolio 
fund invested mainly in stocks and shares and around £16,000 in cash ISAs and £3,000 
savings in a building society savings scheme.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Rs investment goals and whether the investment 
recommendations fitted Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk. The adviser recorded the following 
information about Mr and Mrs R:
 they wanted an additional income stream and the potential to receive a greater level 
of income than that available from traditional deposit accounts, to provide them with extra 
money each month for luxury items and treats 
 they were willing to accept occasional falls in the value of their portfolio, in order to 
achieve attractive returns over the longer term
 they would invest for an initial period of 5 years and then review their financial 
situation.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account how Clydesdales recommendations fitted 
in with Mr and Mrs Rs overall investment position  and whether acting on Clydesdales 
investment advice tipped the balance towards too much exposure to risk or meant 
Mr and Mrs Rs overall risk exposure didnt properly reflect a level of risk that felt comfortable 
for them. 
Mr and Mrs R were re-investing money they had received from the sale of shares at a time 
when they were already living comfortably within their means. They still had an ample cash 
reserve of more than £36,000 in readily accessible savings on deposit  an amount that 
represented nearly two years income for Mr and Mrs R. They also still had other investment 
assets (valued at approximately £28,000) giving them sufficient financial security to be able 
to absorb a degree of investment loss and potentially some scope to rebuild their finances if 
necessary. So I dont feel they were recommended to invest too much of their capital when 
Clydesdale advised them to re-invest all of the £54,000 share sale proceeds. 
And, looking at their objectives and aims, I cant conclude that they were advised to invest 
with too much risk. Ill explain why. Mr and Mrs R might not have had a great deal of investment experience but they had been 
acquiring shares over many years so I think they probably had at least a basic 
understanding of the principle that investment risk is commensurate with investment 
potential. And whilst investment experience is something that the adviser should consider 
when advising on investments, it is not the only consideration. The fact find completed by the 
adviser in July 2006 and signed by Mr and Mrs R shows that their main objective was to 
boost their income. Given this objective I think that Mr and Mrs R needed to invest in a risk-
based investment.
The recommended investments (split between Maxi ISAs and the OEIC) were all in the High 
Income Fund. The relevant Fund Facts leaflet explains that the fund objective was: To 
generate an attractive level of income payable monthly by investing mainly in the fixed 
interest securities of UK and international companies. 
The fund met Mr and Mrs Rs expectations in terms of paying them a monthly income 
distribution. 
The asset allocation was approximately 80% in UK bonds and the remainder in global 
bonds. The largest holdings were gilts or large corporate bonds which offered lower 
investment risk than Mr and Mrs Rs existing shares and their other portfolio investment 
(which they said they wanted to keep). Ive kept in mind that their investment in this fund was 
paid for by selling equities  which can tend towards volatility and are generally higher risk. 
I think it's fair to say that the investment risk presented by this fund represented a de-risking 
investment approach overall from the point of view of Mr and Mrs R. All in all, I havent seen 
enough to make me think that Mr and Mrs R werent comfortable with the level of risk they 
took on when investing in the High Income Fund.
The fund literature explained it offered the benefits of diversification as follows:
- Across asset classes, minimising the impact of fluctuations in any one asset class
- Within asset classes, our global perspective minimises the impact of a region specific crash 
or a downturn in a particular market
- Across investment managers, we use a combination of managers with complementary 
investment styles.
I dont find that lack of diversification alone is enough of a reason for me to uphold this 
complaint.  
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account the suggestion that investing in fixed rate 
bonds wouldve been more suitable for Mr and Mrs R and that option should have been 
clearly explained to Mr and Mrs R and recorded in the point of sale paperwork to ensure they 
were able to make a properly informed investment decision. But I have to decide whether or 
not the recommendation provided to them was suitable. And I cant fairly say that advising 
them to invest in the High Income Fund wasnt suitable based on everything Ive seen and 
been told. So the fact that there may have been other more suitable/less risky funds which 
could have been considered isnt a reason to uphold this complaint because I have found 
that the advice they were given was suitable. 
Although Mr and Mrs R unfortunately made losses on their investments in the High Income 
Fund, Clydesdale had made Mr and Mrs R aware that the Fund was designed to produce 
growth over the medium to long term and values could go up and down, giving variable 
yields with no ultimate guarantee that capital value would not decline. Mr and Mrs R 
encashed their investments after just three years knowing that they were acting against the 
advisers recommendation that they should hold the funds for a minimum of five years. I can 
understand why they chose to limit further anticipated loss by cashing in their investments in 
the fund. But I think Mr and Mrs R understood they were surrendering their investments at a time when market falls had depressed fund values and exiting the fund meant they lost the 
possibility of benefitting from the High Income Fund recovering value.
To sum up, I find the recommended investments in the High Income Fund fitted 
Mr and Mrs Rs personal circumstances, met their investment objectives and matched their 
risk approach at the point of sale. There was no increase overall in the level of investment as 
a result of Clydesdales recommendations. The High Income Fund presented a lower risk 
than the investments that had been the source of the £54,000 Mr and Mrs R now had 
available to re-invest  and was lower risk than some other investments Mr and Mrs R also 
wanted to keep hold of separately, alongside their cash reserves. 
All this suggests to me that Mr and Mrs R wanted to keep a mix of investments and the 
£54,000 invested in the High Income Fund was part of a planned strategy reflecting a range 
of investment risk they were comfortable with overall.
So, for these reasons, I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold their complaint that 
investment recommendations Clydesdale provided to Mr and Mrs R in 2006 were 
unsuitable.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with my provisional decision. The CMC put forward further 
representations on their behalf in support of its view that investing £54,000 into one 
particular fund was high risk and a poor investment strategy for Mr and Mrs R. 
Clydesdale said it agreed with the position outlined in my provisional decision and it had no 
further representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr and Mrs R that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats 
been said, including the comments put forward on their behalf by the CMC in response to my 
provisional decision. 
I havent been provided with any new information that changes what I think about this case.
Ive set out more fully in my provisional decision why I didnt think lack of diversification was 
a good enough reason for me to uphold the complaint. Thinking about the response from the 
CMC to my provisional decision, I would also mention that the fund facts sheet shows that in 
the top 10 holdings, the percentage in each holding was low, which indicates there were a 
number of other holdings aside from the top 10. 
In addition, most of the top 10 was either UK treasury or European Investment Bank stock, 
which was low risk. 
The high grade corporate bonds in the holdings were lower risk than some of Mr and Mrs Rs 
other investments. 
As well as this, the fund used more than one investment manager. 
So whilst Mr and Mrs R were putting a significant amount of their capital in one fund, the 
investment risks were mitigated by the diversification within the fund which was enough in my view to lower the overall investment risk sufficiently for me to conclude that Clydesdales 
recommendation to Mr and Mrs R to invest in it was suitable. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs R. It was unfortunate that the 2008/09 financial crisis was 
focused on the bond market, so this would have been detrimental to the cash in value. But 
I still think the recommendation to invest was reasonable, taking into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
objectives and their situation at the time.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman