DRN-2577761
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Builders Direct SA (Builders Direct) has unfairly declined a 
claim they made for storm damage to their roof. They say also theyve received poor service 
during the claim and the renewal of their policy wasnt handled properly.
What happened
Im not going to describe every point Mr and Mrs M have made on this complaint as these 
are well known to both parties. Instead Ill summarise what happened. Wherever I refer to 
Builders Direct this includes any contractors or other companies that have been involved in 
the claim on Builders Directs behalf.
Mr and Mrs M reported damage to their roof at the end of July 2019, and said they thought it 
was storm damage.
Builders Direct agreed it would look at the claim and sent a contractor to look at the damage. 
He reported that the damage was largely because of frost damage  he said the property 
was in an exposed location and although about 40% of the tiles were obviously damaged the 
whole roof needed replacing because the tiles were so brittle.
Builders Direct told Mr and Mrs M it wouldnt meet the claim, as the damage had built up 
gradually and wasnt the result of a storm.
Mr and Mrs M complained about this, saying theyd been told the tiles should have lasted 
much longer than they had, and so the damage cant have been down to fair wear and tear. 
Builders Direct said it would reconsider if Mr and Mrs M provided a further report on the 
damage. They did this, but builders Direct said the second report repeated what had been 
said in the first  that the damage had built up because of the exposed position of the house. 
Builders Direct also explained to Mr and Mrs M that if the tiles had failed after only 50% of 
their expected life, it would deem that to be a faulty product  and Mr and Mrs Ms policy 
didnt cover those either.
Mr and Mrs M also complained about the service theyd received from Builders Direct and 
wanted to check the contractor sent to look at the damage by builders Direct was properly 
qualified to give an opinion. They said a colleague of his had been rude, and hed provided 
two very different quotes for the work, which they thought was suspicious.
Finally they said theyd received poor service when renewing their policy the previous year 
and had had to chase the business to get this sorted out.
Builders Direct responded to say it stood by its decision to not meet the claim. It said the 
contractor was very experienced in looking at roof damage and was qualified to comment. It 
said it hadnt been able to find out anything definitive about the person Mr and Mrs M 
reported as rude  there were conflicting reports of what happened and no independent 
recording. It didnt think it could do anything else about this. It thought it had dealt with the 
complaint in a reasonable amount of time and made contact with Mr and Mrs M adequately.
Builders Direct did ask the contractor about the difference in quotes for repairs  but 
ultimately it didnt think this had affected Mr and Mrs M as it wasnt going to meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with this and asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Builders Direct had done much wrong. He thought it had 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. He said it was unfortunate that 
Mr and Mrs M had to make contact with a number of different people throughout the claim 
and complaint  but that this was mostly the consequence of having to make a claim and the 
inconvenience this inevitably brought. He said he couldnt look at the part of the complaint 
that was about how the policy had been sold or renewed because that hadnt been done by 
Builders Direct. Finally he agreed that there had been substantial differences in the quotes 
Mr and Mrs M had received from the contractor  but as the claim had been declined, this 
hadnt had a material effect on Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M dont agree and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parts to this complaint and Ill deal with them separately.
The claim
Mr and Mrs M approached Builders Direct about their damaged roof at the end of July. To 
make a claim, they have to show that one of the events they are covered for has happened. 
No policy covers every eventuality, and insurers list the events they will cover in the terms 
and conditions. 
Damage to a roof would most likely only be covered if it was damaged by a storm  or 
perhaps if something fell on it (which might qualify as accidental damage). But it seems 
reasonable to me, given Mr and Mrs Ms description of the damage, that Builders Direct 
consider it under storm damage.
As our investigator said, we look at three things when reviewing complaints about claims for 
storm damage.
These are firstly whether there had been a storm at the time or shortly before the claim was 
made. 
The policy Mr and Mrs M have described the conditions that make up a storm  wind speeds 
of at least 47 mph plus heavy rainfall. A check of the weather reports shows there had been 
no storm conditions in the run up to when Mr and Mrs M made their claim. Effectively this 
means Builders Direct need go no further, as Mr and Mrs M cant show a storm was the 
immediate cause of the damage they reported. 
However, Builders Direct decide it would send someone to assess the damage. Thats a fair 
thing to do as it could be of benefit to Mr and Mrs M if it did find storm damage. Its generally 
accepted that its fair for insurers to rely on the report it commissioned when deciding 
whether to meet claims, so Im satisfied it was reasonable for Builders Direct to do that.
The report said all of the tiles on the roof were fragile, even where it wasnt broken, and 
needed replacing. It said the damage was probably caused over a long period of time by  in 
the main  frost damage. Builders Direct said it wasnt going to meet the claim as it could 
rely on an exception in the policy (a reason to not meet a claim) that said it need not pay for 
any damage that had built up gradually. It said it would reconsider the claim if Mr and Mrs M 
sent in their own report. Thats a fair offer.
The second report broadly confirmed what the first said. So Builders Direct said again that it 
wouldnt meet the claim. Mr and Mrs M say this isnt fair  their home is in an exposed 
position and this has led to their roofing tiles failing many years before they should. I 
understand builders quoting to repair the roof before the claim was made thought Mr and 
Mrs M might be able to make an insurance claim. I cant give that much weight as builders 
arent in a position to know what Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers.What is clear is that the reports commissioned, both by Builders Direct and Mr and Mrs M, 
say the roof has failed because of the effects of weather. But that doesnt mean Mr and Mrs 
M can expect Builders Direct to pay for a new roof for them. The reports conclude that the 
tiles have deteriorated over a number of years  not as the result of one storm. 
Mr and Mrs M say the policy doesnt say explicitly that the damage has to be caused by one 
storm, and theyve sent me a list of storms that have affected the UK, both before and after 
they made their claim. But the policy does say Builders Direct need not pay for damage that 
has built up gradually, or through wear and tear. It doesnt say what fair wear and tear is  
because there doesnt seem to be any intention to cover wear and tear at all.
Thats not uncommon in home insurance policies as they arent intended to cover 
maintenance issues. That includes ones caused by the location of a property.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs M are upset that they cant make a claim for their roof  but 
they havent shown me that it was damaged by one of the events listed in the policy. Even if 
there had been a storm close to when Mr and Mrs M made their claim, I think Builders Direct 
can fairly rely on the exclusion for wear and tear in the policy, so it need not meet the claim.
The contractors behaviour
Mr and Mrs M also complained about the way one contractor  and a colleague of his  had 
behaved. From what I can see Builders Direct tried to investigate this, but couldnt find any 
independent evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ms complaint that someone was rude to them. 
And the person concerned doesnt think they were rude. Without some independent 
corroboration I cant ask Builders Direct to do more than it has on this point.
Mr and Mrs M told us about two different quotes provided by the contractor  one if they paid 
for the work themselves and a much higher one submitted to the insurer. I do understand 
that this would look odd, but as Builders Direct was the recipient of the higher quote  so it 
would have been the one paying more  I cant say this affected Mr and Mrs M negatively. 
The claim and complaint process
Ive looked at the time it took to deal with the claim and the number of people involved. 
Unfortunately making a claim is time consuming and inconvenient, and there are often 
different people involved. Thats the nature of making an insurance claim. Builders Direct 
would only be responsible for any unnecessary distress or inconvenience it caused whilst 
handling the claim. From what Ive seen it dealt with the claim in a timely manner and  
although it didnt always respond as quickly as Mr and Mrs M wanted, it did provide 
reasonable service.
Mr and Mrs M also said they didnt think Builders Direct took responsibility for the complaint 
they made. As thats something linked to their original complaint (about the claim) Ive looked 
at this, and read Builders Directs notes and internal communications about this. The 
paperwork shows that Builders Direct carried out a review of all the points in the complaint 
and responded appropriately, so I cant agree it didnt take responsibility for this.
Other
I cant comment on how the policy was sold and/or renewed as Builders Direct wasnt 
responsible for that. If Mr and Mrs M want to complain about this theyll need to make a 
complaint to the business handling the sale.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman