DRN-2424033
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the quality of repairs carried out to their patio doors by 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited after they made a claim under their home insurance 
policy following a burglary at their property.  
What happened
In January 2020, burglars broke in to Mr and Mrs Ms property and stole various items. In the 
course of breaking in, the burglars caused damage to the patio doors. Mr and Mrs M made a 
claim under their policy which Lloyds accepted. It arranged for its contractor (which Ill call 
V) to carry out a repair of the doors.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the quality of the repair. They remained unhappy even 
after V had returned on several occasions to try and address their concerns. Eventually, in 
June 2020, Lloyds told Mr and Mrs M that it was satisfied it had fulfilled its obligations under 
the policy and that any continued problems were due to pre-existing issues.
In July 2020, Mr and Mrs M obtained their own report from another glazier who concluded 
that there were problems with the repairs which had been carried out to the doors and that 
the doors needed replacing. Mr and Mrs M provided this report to Lloyds.
Lloyds wouldnt change its position. It maintained that the repair had been carried out to an 
adequate standard.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy at Lloyds decision. They referred their complaint to us. They 
wanted Lloyds to cover the cost of the doors being replaced by their own contractor.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, the 
evidence showed that Lloyds had carried out a satisfactory repair and any problems which 
were now being experienced with the doors were unrelated to either the claim or the repair.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. They said they hadnt previously 
experienced problems with the doors and that it was because of Vs poor repairs that these 
problems had arisen.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the policy, Lloyds is liable only for the damage which occurred as a result 
of the insured event. It is not liable for putting right problems which may have existed 
previously.
When V first attended the property in January 2020 following the break-in, it noted that the 
PVC patio door had been jemmied and the euro cylinder lock had been drilled out. Its 
engineer replaced three euro cylinder locks to make the property secure. A few days later, it 
carried out some heat gun repairs.
Mr and Mrs M complained that the replacement locks were of an inferior standard to the 
locks which had been damaged. On reviewing the situation, V conceded that this was the 
case. It ordered new replacement locks and, in March 2020, returned to the property to fit 
these.
Mr and Mrs M considered the work wasnt sufficient. They wanted the doors to be replaced. 
V therefore agreed to send one of its repair specialists to examine the doors.
Vs repair specialist attended the property in April 2020. His report stated:
We have attempted to repair PVC French door. The heat gun and wax repair is still visible 
so needs re-doing. The keeps are also bent, but I'm assuming none were ordered on original 
survey to fit so we need 7 new keeps in total to change all keeps. Customer is saying door is 
bowed. There is about a 1mm bow in door but this is just due to natural warpage of an old 20 
year plus door. I have shown customer his adjoining Anglian door which is much newer and 
also has bows in door, even though it was untouched in break in. He is OK with the bow in 
door now. Send me back to complete repairs . There are lots of small nail holes in door, this 
is nothing to do with break in. I think this is where he may have nailed some kind of draught 
excluder to door.
I consider this gives a clear description of the repair work which was necessary because of 
the break-in and of the condition of the doors before this event.
V's repair specialist re-attended the property in May 2020 to carry out the repair. His report 
from that time stated:
Frame repair to PVC French door and fitted two new keeps. Could not fit new centre keep 
as it would not fit and wouldn't allow the door to latch. Customer not happy with job. He has 
spent 10 mins inspecting door and say that we should have replaced centre keep and also 
there is a very small draught coming in through bottom of door.  You can see from photo that 
there were always problems as someone previously has fitted a timber draught excluder into 
door rebate. I've surveyed for new doors in case ins co authorise them. In my opinion the 
repair is good and doors had wear and tear issues before especially with draught coming 
through them.
Mr and Mrs M continued to be unhappy with the quality of the repairs. They provided a report 
by another glazier who identified various problems with the patio doors. These problems 
included damage to the slave door locking mechanism; the glazier later clarified that he 
believed the slave door mullion had been taken off and part of the lock removed. The glazier 
also highlighted poor toe and heeling of the glazing, gaps in the seals and the poor use of 
silicone to disguise damage to the external frame.
However, V has confirmed that it didnt remove the slave door mullion or tamper with its lock. 
It has also confirmed that it didnt touch the glazing and it simply used a heat gun to repair 
the minimal damage to the door frame. V considers that the issues identified by the glazier 
are pre-existing problems, unrelated to either the break-in or the repairs it carried out. It said 
that the doors, including the locking mechanism, were showing severe signs of wear and 
tear. It agreed with the glazier that the glazing had not been toed and heeled correctly but 
says this would have been a problem from the time of installation. It pointed out that a draught excluder was previously fitted to the door, indicating there were problems with the 
seals. 
Im satisfied that Vs account of the work it did is consistent with the repair records. In my 
view, the evidence indicates that V carried out an adequate repair of the doors to restore 
them to the condition they were in immediately before the break-in. This was all that Lloyds 
was obliged to do under the terms of the policy. I consider that any continuing problems with 
the doors are likely to be due to pre-existing issues rather than anything caused by the 
break-in and subsequent repairs. This being the case, I consider that there is no further 
action which Lloyds is required to take in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman