DRN-2851679
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Union Reiseversicherung AG dealt with one of his claims against
his travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr B bought an annual travel insurance policy with URV. The policy
started on 29 April 2019 and ended on 28 April 2020.
Mr Bs husband, Mr L, planned a trip for Mr Bs birthday. Mr B says that on
14 September 2019, Mr L sent a save the date email invitation to 52 people to join them 
from 11-14 June 2020. Ill refer to that invitation in more detail below.
On 15 September 2019, Mr L booked accommodation for 10 June 2020 to
15 June 2020. The booking form said that there were 45 adults in the group. The total 
cost was €10,950/£9,624.27. On 16 September 2019, Mr L paid a 50% deposit and on 26 
February 2020, he paid the remaining balance.
On 17 March 2020, the UK government advised against all but essential travel abroad. On 
18 March 2020, Mr L cancelled the trip. Mr B subsequently made a claim against his policy 
for the total accommodation costs of £9,624.27 and a catering deposit of £230.81. Mr B 
explained that the accommodation provider had gone out of business and hed paid the 
total amount due for the accommodation, which he couldnt get back.
URV settled Mr Bs claim on payment of £86.25. It said that was Mr Bs proportion of the 
accommodation costs on cancellation, less the excess due under the policy. URVs 
calculation was £5,006.34/45 people - £25. URV said that Mr Bs policy doesnt cover 
amounts he has paid on behalf of others or cover the amount he should have been able to 
recover from the accommodation provider. URV said Mr Bs catering provider had offered 
to change his booking to an alternative date, so that wasnt covered by the policy
either.
Mr B wasnt happy about that. He said that all the people invited on the trip were his guests, 
so he didnt pay on behalf of anyone else. Mr B says that he is out of pocket and he wants 
URV to settle his claim in relation to the accommodation costs.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that URV had 
treated Mr B unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that URV had settled Mr Bs 
claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and he and Mr L responded in some detail, which I 
wont set out here in full. In summary, they said:
They booked accommodation for six days which included two key days of birthday 
festivities.
They made it clear to the people they invited that they would cover the lions share 
of the expenses and asked for a small financial contribution which they thought 
would primarily go towards catering.
They no longer claim for the losses in relation to the catering.
URV misunderstands the nature of the event and the arrangements between Mr B 
and his guests.
It wasnt the case that Mr B was one of 45 people equally benefitting from the 
property.
There were not 45 confirmed guests  that was a figure they plucked from the air 
when asked how many people might attend.
Mr B didnt book accommodation on behalf of his guests.
Mr B and Mr L were obliged to pay for the accommodation whether anyone 
accepted the invitation or not.
No guests were invited to stay for the entire duration of the booking.
Their guests would have no contractual relationship with the accommodation 
provider.
They want URV to pay Mr B the proportion of the costs he paid, i.e. the entirety of 
the €5,000 or at least a figure that could be considered the lions share of that sum.
Mr Bs proportion of the loss is 100% as hes the only person who has any 
obligation to pay.
The claim relates to the non-refundable accommodation costs.
The contra proferentem rule means that URV isnt entitled to choose its preferred 
interpretation of your proportion and on behalf of.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
In response to my further enquiries about the contract for the accommodation and the 
invitation, Mr B said:
Mr L deals with travel planning and administration. Mr B instructed Mr L to book the 
accommodation and transferred money from his bank account to Mr Ls bank 
account, but the accommodation costs were paid with joint assets as a married 
couple.
They sent save the date messages to 52 people knowing that not all would be able 
to attend. The maximum capacity of the accommodation was 50 people. They 
expected around 40 people to attend.
As Mr B said that hes no longer pursuing his claim for catering costs, in this decision Im 
looking at URVs treatment of his claim for accommodation costs.
My provisional decisionOn 10 May 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint but for different reasons than had been given 
before. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
You/Your/Yourself/Insured Person(s)
mean each person travelling on a trip whose name appears on the policy schedule and for 
whom the appropriate premium has been paid [].
In the event that you have paid for a trip on behalf of other individuals not insured on this 
policy please be advised that your policy only provides cover for your proportion of trip 
costs, as opposed to the amount you have paid on behalf of others.
Section 1  Cancellation and curtailment
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for your proportion only 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay [] if:
a. cancellation of the whole trip is necessary and unavoidable 
[]
as a result of any of the following events occurring: 
[]
5. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the 
country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in, as a result of natural disasters 
(such as earthquakes, fires, tsunamis, landslides, floods, hurricanes or 
epidemic(s)/pandemic(s)).
[]
Special conditions relating to claims
[]
5. We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out insurance 
cover with Flexicover. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not insured,
we only pay your proportion of costs, not theirs.
General exclusions applicable to all sections of the policy
We will not pay for claims arising directly from: 
[]
10 Tour operator & airline failure
Any claim that results from the tour operator, airline or any other company, firm or person 
not being able or not being willing to carry out any part of their obligation to you [].
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint because I dont think that URV treated him 
unfairly. I say that because:
Only Mr B is insured under the policy.Mr L, Mr Bs husband, entered into the contract with the accommodation 
provider. So, its Mr L, not Mr B who was obliged to pay what was due under 
that contract. Mr B says that he instructed Mr L to book the accommodation. Ive 
seen nothing to support Mr Bs position that Mr L acted as his agent. Im 
satisfied that Mr L entered into the contract for the accommodation, not Mr B.
Mr B says that he transferred money to Mr L for the accommodation and that, 
ultimately, the accommodation costs were paid from joint assets. Based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think that Mr B has shown that he paid the accommodation costs. 
The extracts of payments Mr B has provided show two payments of £4,000 to    
Mr L: one on 28 Jan and the other on 28 Feb. The 28 Feb payment includes a 
reference to BDAY but theres nothing to link those payments to the 
accommodation costs, they arent for the right amounts and the first payment was 
several months after Mr L made the first payment to the accommodation provider.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that and decided that Mr B paid or 
was contracted to pay the accommodation costs, I dont think that URV treated   
Mr B unfairly in this case. Thats because the policy only covers the insureds 
proportion of irrecoverable accommodation costs and it doesnt cover any claim 
that results from a third party not carrying out its obligations.
Ive noted whats been said about the number of guests. I dont think that URV 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in proceeding on the basis that the accommodation 
was for 45 people, as thats whats in the contract for the accommodation.
The policy provides that where the insured has paid for a trip on behalf of others 
not insured under the policy, cover is limited to the insureds proportion of the trip 
costs. Thats the case whether the payment is made on behalf of others in the 
expectation of recovering the money, or as a gift.
Mr B says that he would have picked up the lions share of the costs but the 
invitation hes provided asked guests for £200/€225/$250 per person to cover 
the house and supplies. I think its fair for URV to conclude that Mr Bs proportion 
of the unused accommodation costs is 1/45th.
The accommodation provider was obliged to return 50% of cost on cancellation 
but didnt do so as it had gone out of business. The policy doesnt cover a claim 
that results from a third party not carrying out its obligations. I think that URV was 
right to calculate its settlement based on Mr Bs share of the non-refundable 
deposit, rather than the whole cost.
Responses to my provisional decision
URV said that it had nothing further to add. Mr B didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. He said, in summary:
Ive rejected evidence of a large payment from Mr Bs account to Mr Ls account 
labelled BDAY and not accepted that it relates to a large expense relating to a 
birthday. The extracts from the policy which I set out are entirely supportive of their claim. 
His proportion of the loss is the entire amount owed and to divide by any number 
other than one (or 2, as they acted as joint agents) isnt in accordance with the 
terms of the policy and demonstrates that URV is able to choose its definition of 
terms, contrary to the contra proferentem rule. 
Like most married couples in the UK, he and Mr L often act on each others 
behalf when making arrangements. They had a direct discussion about booking 
the accommodation and Mr L sent the email to the accommodation provider. In 
Marlbray Ltd v Laditi an another [2016] EWCA Civ 476, the Court of Appeal  
decided that a contract signed by a buyer on behalf of himself and his wife 
without her authority was valid.
They consider their assets as joint assets and dont keep detailed records of 
exact transactions. He didnt transfer the exact amounts to Mr Ls account, but 
approximate sums to help with joint costs on the timeline that their payments 
were required for their joint booking of the accommodation. 
He and Mr L would have gone to the accommodation whether others attended or 
not, as they had arranged and paid for it. So, he wasnt paying or claiming on 
behalf of anyone else. 
URV delayed dealing with his claim until such time as the accommodation 
provider became insolvent. When he first made the claim, the accommodation 
provider could have carried out its obligations.
He agrees that the accommodation provider was obliged to return 50% of the 
cost on cancellation and that the policy doesnt cover a claim that results from a 
third party not carrying out its obligations. So, hes asking URV to pay up to 50% 
of the loss. URVs delay in dealing with the claim led to further losses and 
anguish.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I quite understand that Mr B is unhappy with my provisional decision: theres a considerable 
sum at stake. This service resolves disputes between consumers and businesses fairly and 
impartially. That means we look at both sides and we dont favour one side over another. 
Ive looked again at the payments from Mr B to Mr L. I accept that the payment of £4,000 on 
28 February which includes BDAY in the reference related to payment of birthday 
expenses. But theres nothing to link that payment to Mr Ls payment to the accommodation 
provider. The payments from Mr B to Mr L which Mr B has shared with this service arent for 
the right amounts and were several months after Mr L made the first payment to the 
accommodation provider. Its still  not clear to me that the payments Mr B has shown related 
to the accommodation costs.
The contra proferentem rule doesnt assist Mr B in this case as the relevant policy terms are 
not ambiguous. Its the interpretation of the facts of the case that are in dispute. I appreciate that its not uncommon for married people to act on each others behalf, but 
whatever discussions took place, only Mr L entered into the contract with the 
accommodation provider. Im not persuaded that Mr L acted as Mr Bs agent such that I 
could fairly conclude that it was Mr B who entered into the contract with the accommodation 
provider, either alone or with Mr L. 
The decision by the Court of Appeal to which Mr B has referred is distinguishable on its 
facts. In that case, the court decided that a contract signed only by the husband remained 
binding on him alone, even though it named the husband and wife as purchasers. The 
husband had no authority to contract on the wifes behalf. I dont think that the decision in 
that case assists Mr B.  
Mr B says that he and Mr L consider all their assets to be joint assets. That doesnt alter the 
fact that only Mr L was contractually obliged to pay the accommodation provider. I remain of 
the view that it was Mr L who was obliged to pay what was due under the contract for the 
accommodation, not Mr B. Mr L isnt insured under the policy.  
Mr B says that if none of the 52 people invited to the accommodation accepted Mr Ls 
invitation, he and Mr L would have still attended the property. I dont think that its helpful to 
speculate about what might have occurred in different circumstances. Based on what Ive 
seen, it was Mr Ls intention to accommodate around 45 people in total, according to the 
contract for the accommodation. Mr L invited 52 people, knowing some wouldnt be able to 
attend. He asked them to contribute £200/€225/$250 per person to cover the house and 
supplies. I dont think I can safely conclude that the cost of the accommodation was entirely 
Mr Bs or shared jointly between Mr B and Mr L and that payment wasnt being made on 
behalf of others. I dont think that URV was at fault in concluding that Mr Bs loss was 1/45 of 
the accommodation costs.
I dont think that URV delayed unduly in settling Mr Bs claim. Mr B submitted the claim to 
URV on 22 March 2020. On 8 April 2020, URV told Mr B that it couldnt deal with the claim 
so far in advance of the trip departure date, as it wasnt clear at that stage whether the 
advice about travel would be extended. I think that was a reasonable response given the 
unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19. URV settled Mr Bs claim on                  
1 June 2020. The time URV took to deal with Mr Bs claim didnt prejudice his position in 
relation to the accommodation provider, as Mr B didnt have a claim against the 
accommodation provider. Mr Ls claim against the accommodation provider is separate and 
distinct from Mr Bs claim against URV.  
For these reasons and for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the 
view that URV didnt treat Mr B unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim in the way that it 
did.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman