DRN-3556805
The complaint
Mr W and Ms W complain that Esure Services Limited sold them an annual travel insurance 
policy starting on the wrong date, changed their policy wording in their online account 
without informing them and didnt send them policy documents by post or email.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr W says he searched for home insurance on a price comparison 
website. He says he subsequently spoke to Esure and, during the conversation, he was also 
sold a travel insurance additional cover option. Mr W says he asked for the travel insurance 
cover to start in December 2019 as he already had a separate travel insurance policy in 
place to cover an upcoming holiday in October 2019. 
Esure says the sale of the policy was completed on the price comparison website. Esure 
provided Mr W with a policy schedule stating that the cover (including the annual travel 
insurance) was purchased on 22 October 2019 and started on 23 October 2019. 
Mr W and Ms W subsequently tried to make a claim under the travel insurance cover theyd 
bought from Esure when they couldnt travel on a holiday in August 2020. But they were told 
their travel insurance policy didnt cover pandemics. Mr W and Ms W complained to Esure. 
They said the policy documents available on their online account were changed without 
notice and that the policy wording which should apply to their claim didnt contain any 
exclusion for pandemics. Esure said Mr W and Ms Ws policy was bought on a price 
comparison website on 22 October 2019 and cover started the following day. It said the 
policy wording applicable to Mr W and Mrs Ws claim had an exclusion for pandemics and 
the policy wording provided by Mr W which contained no such exclusion was only appliable 
to policies bought from 1 December 2019. 
Unhappy, Mr W and Ms W brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Esure had done 
anything wrong. Mr W and Ms W didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their 
complaint has been referred to me to decide, as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W and Ms Ws policy schedule shows their cover as starting on 23 October 2019. This 
means the contract for travel insurance which they hold is outlined in the terms and 
conditions referenced EHCF/47900500319. So, the travel insurance policy which they held 
was provided by an underwriter which Ill call A and that policy contains a general exclusion 
for claims arising from pandemics. 
The version of the terms and conditions which Mr W has provided is underwriten by a 
different insurer, which Ill call U and didnt come into force until after Mr W and Ms Ws 
travel insurance policy had already started. Mr W says he accessed this version of the terms 
and conditions on his online account. These may have been placed there in error, but this 
doesnt mean that these are the terms and conditions which apply to the claim. In any event, 
while this version of the terms and conditions doesnt contain an exclusion relating to a 
pandemic, there may be other reasons why Mrs W and Ms Ws claim wouldnt have been 
covered under this contract provided by U anyway. 
I understand Mr W says he asked Esure for the travel insurance cover to start in December 
2019. But, Esure says Mr W and Ms Ws policy was bought online. Esure has provided 
evidence to show the only record it has of any inbound or outbound calls from or to Mr W in 
October, November or December 2019 was on 21 October 2019. This was before the policy 
was purchased, and the sale of the policy wasnt completed during the call  instead, Mr W 
said he would complete the purchase online. During this call, Mr W said he needed cover for 
a holiday starting on 26 October 2019 but Esure said this wouldnt be possible because of 
the cover start date for the home insurance which Mr W had chosen (which, at that time, was 
3 November 2019). Esure said Mr W could remove the travel insurance option from his 
online quote and add it back onto his home insurance policy later in the year. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr W understood, generally, how the travel insurance element of the policy 
would operate. Ive seen no evidence to demonstrate what information Mr W subsequently 
input into the price comparison website when he bought the insurance, but this isnt Esures 
responsibility. 
Mr W says Esure changed the terms and conditions on his online account in early March 
2021  but the original policy taken out by Mr W and Ms W in October 2019 had already 
expired at that point, so I cant fairly conclude that Esure has done anything wrong in this 
reagrd. 
Its not within my remit to direct Esure to send policy documents to its policyholders in any 
particular manner. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is 
to decide whether I think Esure has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the individual 
circumstances of Mr W and Ms Ws complaint, and I dont think it has, so I wont be 
recommending for Esure to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman