DRN-3599348
The complaint
Mr M complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided to us by PML, Mr M was approved for a £10,000 loan in 
November 2017. The repayments over ten years were just over £300 each month for 
120 months. The interest on the loan was to be £24,641 with some additional fees as well  
an acceptance fee and an administration fee (total £1,390). So, the total to pay was 
£36,031.60.
Mr M explained to PML that it was for debt consolidation on credit cards and to pay for a new 
boiler for the house he was renovating.
PML had information from Mr M including his net monthly income of around £2,400, and 
several PML representatives spoke to Mr M on the telephone during which the PML 
representative went through Mr Ms credit file. PML also got copies of Mr Ms payslips, and 
bank account statements. Additional telephone calls took place to double-check issues 
which appeared on the bank statements and/or to check whether some payday loans had 
been paid off.
Mr M had a mortgage with a high street bank and another loan with a lender Ill call Lender 
F secured on the house as well.
Mr M had explained he wanted to consolidate all his active credit cards  seven in total - on 
which he was making a total minimum monthly payment of approximately £332.47.
The loan was approved and PML paid off the credit cards directly and paid to Mr M the 
balance of the loan which was £1,062.34.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, PML said:
All committed, priority, essential and non-essential expenses were accounted for within the 
affordability assessment completed by Progressive Money. Our records indicate that [Mr M] 
settled his account on 3 June 2021 and received an interest rebate.
In response to the complaint, PML replied with its final response letter (FRL) dated 
4 November 2020. PML was aware that he had recently taken, and paid off, three high cost 
short term instalment loans.
It said:
The Underwriter provided you with a quote of £10,000 over a term of 120 months, an 
administration fee of £390, an acceptance fee of £1000, total interest payable of £26,641.60, 
total repayable of £36,031.60 a Gross Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 41.02% and a 
monthly payment of £300.26.
PML did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said:
You were previously making a total minimum payment of £332.47 across all 7 credit cards 
which were settled and replaced with the monthly Progressive loan payment of £300.26.
Additional correspondence took place between Mr M and PML and it issued a further FRL 
dated 12 April 2021 in which it listed the seven credit cards it paid off for him and  
reconfirmed that as well as doing that PML paid £1,062.34 in cash. 
PML confirmed that as well as the seven it consolidated, it knew he had a mortgage with a 
bank costing him £487 a month, a second mortgage with Lender F costing £386.43, and a 
car loan with a supermarket branded bank. That cost £156.90 a month.
During telephone calls with the PML representatives, Mr M had explained he had paid off 
three high cost short term loans or instalment loans before approaching PML.
PML was aware that Mr M received a bonus each year in February of around £5,000. PML 
treated it as surplus income. PML said that the level of interest was a fact about which Mr M 
was aware when arranging the loan.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that PML had carried out 
proportionate checks and that it did not need to put things right for him.
Mr M was not satisfied and listed a series of additional points for our adjudicator to consider. 
He said as follows (summarised)
he had borrowed several payday loans which showed he was already struggling and 
talking out further unsecured debt wasnt appropriate.
credit balances and secured loans showed he was in financial difficulty, was using 
credit cards to pay other debt, which then he consolidated on multiple occasions.
he was over the credit facility limits on credit cards and overdrafts and, taking payday 
loans. There were numerous credit searches and consolidation loans. The secured 
borrowing increased, and later he had to sell the property to pay back the borrowing. 
All of which were a sign he was in difficulty.
no stress testing was undertaken by PML and he feels the affordability checks were 
not robust.
he had a default on a phone account and credit report with multiple short term loans. 
Mr M mentioned missed payments at the end of 2016 towards his supermarket 
branded loan, credit cards and one bank loan account. He was over the limit on one 
of his bank accounts.
he said hed taken a lot of cash advances
Mr M says that the overall picture was a person not managing.
Our adjudicator explained that although she was sympathetic to the points she did not 
consider that the points had changed her view.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 14 October 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision in which I gave reasons why I considered that the complaint ought to be 
upheld. And so, I said I planned to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Both parties have responded  PML has gone into a lot of detail  and having considered the 
complaint again I have issued my final decision.
For ease of reading I have inserted the full text of the provisional decision here which forms 
part of this decision and is in smaller type to differentiate it from the parties recent 
submissions and my final decision. 
My provisional decision dated 14 October 2022. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether PML 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay in a 
sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that PML did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and that he has lost 
out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the loan 
would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this meant 
that PML had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also had to be 
proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could 
look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. And I add that this has been lengthy consideration with 
many documents and several recorded calls to listen to more than once.
PML has sent to me each of the recorded calls between Mr M and its representatives in 
November 2017. It maintains that thorough checks were done including substantiating the information Mr M gave to it with supporting documents and additional calls to answer queries raised by those 
documents.
Mr M had at least five bank accounts: one with a building society ending *4527 and another with the 
same building society ending *6180, a high street bank account ending *8624 (everyday saver with 
zero balance), *7794 (everyday saver) and another ending *4449 (his main account into which his 
salary was paid). In the account ending *7794 (everyday saver), on 14 November 2017 Mr M had 
£130.
A great many transfers took place between those accounts on a regular basis. I have seen the 
documentation and the bank statements for most of them for about a month leading up to 
November 2017. So, I cannot say that I have a complete picture of Mr Ms financial position in or 
around November 2017 as it is a complicated picture. But I have what PML had and I have carefully 
looked at it all.
The building society account current account ending *4527 had some returned payments registered 
and these were queried during one of the calls with PML and it was due to Mr M having just paid off a 
mortgage and so the direct debits to pay for it went out and were returned.
During that first call with PML, the representative knew from its own records that Mr M had had a 
secured loan with its sister company which I will refer to as sister company. Mr M said that had all 
been paid off.
Mr M had said to the PML representative that he was relatively close to the flat renovation completion, 
at which point he was planning to re-mortgage completely next year (meaning around April 2018) 
and pay it all off.
I have seen information relating to that sister company lending and I am aware that the reason Mr M 
was passed over to PML seemed to arise from the fact that the last secured loan Mr M had taken with 
the sister company the time before had got him to a 95% loan to value position. And so the sister 
company did not consider it could lend again.
This information would have been known to PML, alternatively, it was on notice of Mr Ms previous 
accounts with its sister company and therefore it was information that was easily available to it. At the 
end of the first call with PML,  the PML representative was reading to Mr M the options open to him in 
relation to term lengths (8 or 10 years), then it was clear that Mr M wanted it to be as cheap as 
possible (stretched out longer) as he had plans to re-mortgage the whole thing all over again. 
I think that PML ought to have realised that his plan to re-mortgage it all again in Spring 2018 to pay it 
all off was not likely considering the high level of borrowing on the property up to that point  
November 2017.
And overall its this conclusion I have come to: that PML was aware that he was very stretched, and it 
was aware that Mr M needed a lot of debt consolidation, and it was aware he had taken a series of 
other second mortgages and that his main mortgage had been refinanced relatively recently in 2017. 
It was aware he was sinking money into a renovation project which Mr M admitted had been costing 
more than he thought. He earned a decent salary at around £2,450 a month but it was not an 
extraordinary salary meaning Mr M was not in a position where his monthly wage was so high that he 
was in a comfortable position.
And although PML found a solution for Mr M, which was the substitution of paying several credit cards 
at the minimum monthly rate (around £332) for its own loan over a decade of £300 a month, the 
solution meant it was a marginal difference to Mr M of around £32 a month. I dont think it was a big 
help to him.
And whilst I appreciate that PML ought not to have given Mr M any advice on loans as that would 
involve a different category of FCA compliance and training for PML staff, the creditworthiness 
assessment was to be carried out from the borrowers perspective in line with the irresponsible 
lending rules. And this was a relevant, and in Mr Ms case, a highly necessary element.I am aware that PML did an income and expenditure (I&E) spreadsheet, a copy of which has been 
sent to me. It used £2,450 as his income figure each month. The total expenditure was £1,764 each 
month which included
mortgage £487
phones £62.70
utilities £100
TV £12.25
Council Tax £80
TV package £50
Home insurance £36
other £148  likely the car loan
Food £169
Unsecured loan £233
Secured loans £386
credit cards £0
PML calculated that Mr M would have had about £685 disposable income each month. But I have a 
number of points to make about this I&E having considered all the information I have as a whole 
picture.
Nothing was included for any car insurance or petrol and it seems that PML had asked him about that, 
especially as one of his loans he had told them was for a car. And one of the recorded calls he had 
had with the PML representatives had been while he was driving. So, I can see that PML paid 
attention to detail. Mr M said in the last recorded call with PML that the car loan was to pay off an old 
car which was written off. The car he did drive was a company car. So that seems to explain the 
absence of car insurance and petrol from the I&E.
This I&E did not include a large enough sum for food in my view. Mr M said he was single but £169 a 
month for food seems low. There was no inclusion of the £332 being the minimum monthly 
repayments expected across his seven credit cards. For its entry in relation to credit card it had 
recorded £0.
All his loans (secured and unsecured) excluding the main mortgage and not including the PML loan, 
and including the monthly credit card minimum repayments, would have been about £1,099 a month. 
Id consider that to have been a high percentage of his net monthly income. Removing the minimum 
credit card payments and adding in the PML loan would have led to about the same figure  but then 
add in his main mortgage of £487, then that would have added up to around £1,554 which was a very 
high percentage.
PML had checked with Mr M about some payday loans. Mr M had explained at one point that one of 
the payday loans or high cost short term instalment loans with a well-known lender was a loan hed 
taken out late Friday night when he had had to pay builders and needed some money fast. But  the 
credit file showed  and the versions PML obtained are the same - that he had been taking several of 
these sorts of loans over several years including:
January 2016May 2016 (£993)
June 2017 - two loans
August 2017
The list above was for one company. He had just paid off two other high cost short term loan 
companies as well, and PML had asked for confirmation of those loans having ended. Added to which 
Mr M had used other high cost short term credit companies in February and June 2016. So, I think 
that PML was on notice that Mr M had not used it once or twice as an emergency builders pay 
solution. I think the use of payday loans was more often than that.
And so, I think that Mr Ms need for payday loans and high cost short term or instalment loans was 
more prevalent than PML thought and Mr M wanted PML to think. But the facts were there for PML to 
see at the time as I have deduced that when reading all the information together.
There was some evidence of gambling. For instance, on account ending *4449 from midOctober 2017 
to mid-November 2017 Mr M spent about £450 on a betting and gaming website. PML knew of this as 
it had circled every single transaction of this nature in the copy bank statements I have seen. The 
PML representative had noticed it and asked him about it on the last call, and he was asked to send 
in more copy bank statements.
I asked Mr M about this element of his spending  through our adjudicator - and he has said it was not 
a problem for him. But I cant ignore that in my view £450 in one month was a lot when Mr M was so 
stretched with his finances. This had not been factored into the I&E and I am not sure whether Mr M 
sent in any additional bank statements after that last recorded call with PML.
Mr Ms mortgage and re-mortgage explanations were very confusing and difficult to follow. So, I have 
accumulated all the information I have had from Mr M, from the recorded calls with PML, with our 
adjudicator, and from the credit file PML has provided to us from 2017 plus Mr Ms personal credit file 
which was a useful cross  reference document. These next paragraphs address these issues. This is 
a provisional decision and so if Mr M can assist with checking this and/or sending a complete 
chronology to us that that may be helpful.
Mr M had said that hed had the property since around 2009 and he had spent about £45,000 on the 
conversion from a one-bedroom property to a three bedroom, and three- bathroom property. He 
assured PML he had no plans to rent it out or to sell it. But he had also said he was single. The lists of 
mortgages follow in the next few paragraphs.
His main one was with the high street bank and he said that this was because he worked for that bank 
and his main bank account into which his salary was paid was an account with that bank. The record 
for mortgages with that bank provider shows it commenced September 2017 at £428 x 360 months 
(30 years) the starting balance being around £128,700. And the PML copy of Mr Ms credit file shows 
it had been annotated by the PML representative, and it shows it had only just commenced in 
September 2017. It was still ongoing when he approached PML and was repaid in August 2020. This 
appears to have been settled in 2020 when he sold the property. But he has explained to our 
adjudicator that he had one with his building society before that and that building society one had paid 
off that one.
Another secured loan was listed as having a commencement date of August 2015, which was 
originally £316 x 264 months (22 years) which would have been £83,424 and was settled early in 
August 2016. It was replaced immediately with one taken August 2016 settled September 2017 being 
£160 x 252 months (21 years).
And Mr M took a second mortgage on 31 March 2016 the repayments for which were £258 x 96 
months (8 years), which was settled April 2017 and another with the same provider had commenced 
December 2016 at £394 x £120 months (10 years) settled December 2017 and another taken 
October 2017  just before applying for the PML loan. PML had annotated that entry and it was for 
around £21,000. That last second mortgage was settled October 2018 (which was after the PML loan) 
with a new one which was for £368 x 108 months (9 years).And in the meantime, Mr M had used PMLs sister company for another series of secured lending 
which were as follows: one taken January 2014 (opening balance around £31,000) and settled 
August 2015. Then 24 August 2015 £349 x 180 months (15 years) starting balance of £62,827 settled 
29 November 2016. Then replaced with another immediately at £375 x 180 months (15 years) starting 
balance £67,658 settled 29 September 2017.
I asked our adjudicator to speak to Mr M about all these different and very confusing mortgages to try 
to get to the bottom of why he was doing this. And I have listened to the recording between Mr M and 
our adjudicator. In it he explained that the main bank mortgage he had at the time he was applying to 
PML had been used to repay another main high street building society mortgage. And then he did it 
more and then he had started with another company  Lender F  plus had been to PMLs sister 
company as well. He said hed got to the stage where he was robbing Peter to pay Paul and kept 
getting more and more credit from different sources.
And I have concluded that I am persuaded by Mr Ms explanations and his credit history reveals it. 
I do not know the root cause of Mr M needing to constantly pay re-mortgage fees and high interest on 
mortgages, second mortgages and unsecured loans, but I suspect it was a combination of 
overreaching himself with the property renovation and some other debt issues. PML was aware of all 
of this and I consider that if I can piece together all the facts it had at the time and reach a conclusion 
of a man overreaching himself, then I think PML likely could have done as well.
And Ill go further, I think it had realised that Mr M may have been in too deep as it was constantly 
asking him for more information, further documents and further explanations to explain elements of 
his finances.
Overall I think that Mr M has lost out by PML approving this loan for him over a ten year term when it 
had a marginal effect on his finances as a consolidation loan, and it followed on from a series of other 
lending showing Mr M was financially challenged.  I plan to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The reply date for the provisional decision was 28 October 2022. Mr M had responded and 
seemed to have accepted it. He has not corrected any of the factual matters listed and so it 
seems my acquisition of the facts from the information I had were correct.
PML has responded in detail and in fairness these have been summarised here and I have 
placed them in a table format so that I can address each one. I have used PMLs wording for 
clarity in most of the summaries. The direct quotes are in italics. The reference to I is the 
PMLs representative writing the response submissions for PML. 
PML has not corrected any of the facts and has agreed the complaint is reasonably complex. 
PML has said to me that its position remains the same : a reasonable, proportionate, and 
evidence-based assessment of Mr Ms circumstances showed the loan was viable. Whilst no 
new evidence can be presented, a portion of the findings in your letter could be considered 
conjecture, 
PMLs points following my provisional 
decisionMy final decision on these points
PML agrees that it and the sister company 
to PML are sister companies but the 
systems and resources used by the front-
line staff are separate.
PML went on to say that the sister company I make no comment on the companies 
internal systems. I heard the PML staff 
member on the first recorded call with Mr M 
come back to Mr M after doing some 
research against his name, to say that he 
could see that Mr M had been known to its information relating to Mr M would not be 
relevant to the new unsecured loan Mr M 
was applying for. sister company and that precipitated a 
conversation about Mr Ms relationship with 
that other company. So the point here is that 
the PML representatives knew of this history 
and there had been quite a long history. As 
such it is highly relevant in my view.  
PML has sought to differentiate between 
Mr M wanting to tidy everything up 
(meaning his finances) and consolidation 
of previous debts. PML says it was to tidy 
the credit into one repayment for ease of 
management and to finalise his home 
improvements  and PML submitted: 
I understand your comments that the 
consolidation amount was only marginally 
beneficial to Mr M, and understand this is 
subjective, I must disagree.I consider that debt consolidation and the 
PML adjective used of tidying everything up 
 even if adopted from Mr Ms usage  is 
much the same. Mr M was seeking to 
combine a number of payments into one. 
And PML does seem to have accepted that 
the PML loan reduced Mr Ms repayments 
each month by £32 and it was marginal. I 
agree that the £32 saving was marginal 
especially spread over a decade which really 
led to Mr M being more indebted than he had 
been for a long time into the future. 
PML says that my view that it was of 
marginal benefit is subjective. Credit 
worthiness assessments are meant to have 
been carried out from the borrowers 
perspective and so that element of 
subjectivity is exactly what all the detailed 
financial assessment of an applicants 
finances should be. 
Mr M was employed at the bank in a senior 
position and so PML has said it would have 
expected Mr M to have had more 
knowledge than an average applicant. So 
PML says this adds considerable weight 
to our argument that Mr M entered into the 
agreement having made an informed 
decision I have not investigated the seniority level of 
Mr Ms role at his employer bank. 
My experience from handling irresponsible 
lending complaints for many years informs 
me that often those in unmanageable debt 
are unable to recognise it at the time. This 
was part of Mr Ms explanations to us during 
the telephone calls to our adjudicator all of 
which I have listened to. 
And I note that Mr M was gambling. A factor 
about which PML has said nothing but I have 
explained in my provisional decision was 
likely significant sums and had been noted 
by PML at the time as it had circled each and 
every transaction identified as gambling in 
the bank statements it had seen. A person in 
a lot of debt who has taken to gambling can 
be an indication that the problem lies deeper. 
But PML in its answer to my provisional 
decision has not referred to it or addressed 
why it had annotated all the gambling 
transactions and not really got to the bottom of that. Whereas I found it of relevance. 
PML has submitted that companies such as 
it offer credit to those applicants who may 
struggle to source credit elsewhere 
And goes on to say that a lot of people 
would be excluded from obtaining credit if 
companies such as PML were not around to 
lend. All regulated firms must comply with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) CONC 
rules. I make no comment or finding in 
relation to the benefit or otherwise of 
particular lenders in the market. 
What I do say is that PMLs submission on 
this point demonstrates to me that it is/was 
aware of the customer base it attracts and 
that the applicants coming to it may be 
people for whom obtaining credit is an issue. 
And so PMLs awareness of that leads me to 
think that the credit worthiness assessment it 
is obliged to carry out ought to be all the 
more heightened. 
In Mr Ms case, we completed a search of 
credit reference agencies that showed there 
was a large number of accounts, though 
80% of those found had since been settled. 
There were no defaults or CCJs, no loans 
(secured or non-secured) with a payment 
status of 3 or worse in the last 2 years, and 
whilst there were several accounts with 
early arrears indicators, and one account 
with a sustained arrears indicator, the 
conduct had improved significantly over the 
prior 12 months.The credit search details are what I have 
used, as I outlined in my provisional 
decision, and Mr Ms history of the credit 
taken (secured, unsecured and high-cost 
payday or instalment loans) was extensive. 
I agree on that. And the content ought to 
have alerted PML to the fact Mr M was 
coming back again for additional borrowing 
and for the saving of a nominal sum of £32 
a month. 
And for such a large loan over a ten year 
period and with a very high level of interest 
attached to it I consider that obtaining a 
detailed understanding of Mr Ms financial 
situation was warranted and proportionate. 
PML did obtain a lot of information but as it 
knows, the pounds and pence calculations 
of his application were not the whole picture. 
Ive made my points on this in my provisional 
decision. 
PML knew Mr M had several short-term 
high interest loans but they had been 
managed well with no suggestion any 
existing loan would not be handled in the 
same manner.I refer to my provisional decision findings on 
these points. 
PML is not qualified to offer an opinion on 
home improvementsI agree. But PML was aware that it was all 
costing Mr M more than he had thought. It 
was useful background information. Theres 
no suggestion that PML was being asked to 
give an opinion on Mr Ms home 
improvements. Mr M had shown previous credit had been 
consistently settled in short time. Though 
Mr M has later told the adjudicator he was 
Robbing Peter to pay Paul and was frank 
about his struggles after the fact, PML could 
only act on the information and evidence 
available to us at the time.I have demonstrated in my provisional 
decision that PML had a great deal of 
information about Mr M at the time he 
applied to it for the loan. And as I have said 
earlier, PML has not disputed much of the 
factual information I have outlined in that 
provisional decision. 
PML has referred to several points made in 
the provisional decision about the 
expenditure list and that relating to food, it 
had no reason to challenge that sum. 
PML has pointed out that the seven credit 
cards were consolidated as part of its own 
loan and that was the reason the minimum 
payment for all the cards was included in its 
one I&E calculationsI make no further comment tot hat already 
made in my provisional decision on the 
expenditure list
I thought that was likely the case. But I refer 
to the points made in the section of this grid 
below.
As I positioned earlier in my email, though I 
appreciate the reduction in monthly 
outgoings was nominal, the primary 
purpose of lending was satisfied, and there 
was still a reduction in outgoings that 
should eased the monthly pressure Mr M 
was experiencing when completing his 
home improvements.I disagree and refer to the provisional 
decision to explain why. 
All Mr Ms loans (secured and unsecured) 
excluding the main mortgage and not 
including the PML loan, and including the 
monthly credit card minimum repayments, 
would have been about £1,099 a month. 
Id consider that to have been a high 
percentage of his net monthly income.
Removing the minimum credit card 
payments and adding in the PML loan would 
have led to about the same monthly 
expenditure figure  but then if I add in his 
main mortgage of £487, then that would 
have been around £1,554 which was a very 
high percentage of his income and one Id 
consider unsustainable over a decade. 
 the loan to income ration [sic] was just less 
than 60%, which I do not feel is excessive, 
especially considering Mr M had a further 
£5,000.00 surplus amount each year from 
his company as a bonus that could be used 
to supplement his spending and by 
extension, quality of life.60% loan to income ratio is high in my view. 
And PML has specifically noted at the time of 
Mr Ms application that the £5,000 a year 
bonus obtained by Mr M was not included in 
its credit worthiness assessment. It referred 
to it as surplus income' and had noted that it 
was not included as income. And so I do not 
consider it right that I should have included it 
too. 
And further, that £5,000 bonus each year 
was never verified and if it had been and/or 
included in the assessment it suggests to me 
that Mr M was in deeper trouble than originally explained to PML at the time, as I 
think that a PML loan assessor would have 
questioned why Mr M would have wanted to 
take a further very high cost loan for £10,000 
over a decade when he had a £5,000 bonus 
due a few weeks later than his application 
date in November 2017. So, if that £5,000 
element is to be addressed as part of this 
complaint then that is my view on it. 
PML has said that on its calculations Mr M 
would have had about £400 a month of 
disposable income after meeting all his 
credit commitments and the PML loan too. 
So the loan was sustainable. 
It refers to the £5,000 bonus payment due 
in February each year again. On the £5,000 bonus payment I refer to all 
the points made on that in my previous 
section. It is not right that not having been 
considered in 2017 now PML is saying it 
should be. And if it was, then I repeat what I 
said before. 
And the £400 a month disposable income 
does not account for the gambling 
transactions which I think may have been 
more of an issue than PML has said but it 
noted them at the time as each transaction 
was circled. 
PML has referred to the possibility of a 
rental income on the property I do not consider this to have been relevant 
at the time the loan application as being 
assessed as the property was being 
renovated, not in a state to rent out and it 
was Mr Ms home. PML has suggested that I 
have indulged in conjecture and I think this is 
an element of conjecture in its submissions. 
PML has asked me to reconsider my findings and the redress. I have and my provisional 
findings are repeated here and are made final, together with the additional points I have 
made about PMLs recent submissions. 
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and in this final decision I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Putting things right
The loan was paid off and so the redress is relatively straightforward. PML should do as 
follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to take off tax from this interest. PML must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman