DRN-3981108
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined a claim 
she made under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D has explained that on 31 January 2022, a water storage tank in the loft of her property 
failed. She said that water coming from the failed tank caused damage to a bedroom, and 
the dining room below it. Because her property was damaged, Mrs D contacted her home 
insurer, AA, to make a claim under her policy.
AA considered Mrs Ds claim and declined it. AA said that a surveyor it appointed had 
attended Mrs Ds property and noted that the bedroom ceiling had bowed and stained, and 
the carpet and wardrobe had suffered from damage. With the water spreading into the dining 
area on the floor below. AA accepted the damage was caused due to a faulty water tank. But 
it said there was evidence to show the damage wasnt caused by a one-off event. But had 
been going on for a period of time, with the damage happening gradually.
AA said the policy specifically excluded damage caused over a period of time. So, the policy 
didnt respond.
Mrs D didnt feel this was fair. And complained to AA. AA maintained its position on the 
matter. As Mrs D remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They said that 
AA hadnt provided a persuasive narrative to show the damage had happened over a period 
of time. So, our investigator considered that AA should reimburse Mrs D for the repairs she 
had had to make to her property due to the escape of water, plus 8% interest on this 
amount.
AA didnt agree. It considered that it had provided sufficient evidence to show the exclusion 
around gradual damage applied in Mrs Ds case. 
As AA didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether AA acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to 
settle Mrs Ds claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mrs Ds policy documentation. And I can see she has buildings and 
contents insurance cover. As is common with policies of this nature, the policy provides 
cover for damage caused by particular events listed in the policy. For example, damage 
caused by an escape of water. It is for the policyholder to show that their loss is caused by 
one of the events listed in the policy.
Mrs D has said there was an escape of water at her home, which caused damage. Its my 
understanding that this has been accepted as evidenced  there was water damage to the 
home, as a result of water escaping from a faulty tank.
As it has been shown there was an escape of water, the insurer, in this case AA, need to 
settle the claim  unless it has shown that an exclusion in the policy applies. In this instance, 
AA has said that an exclusion does apply. This being an exclusion around damage that has 
happened gradually. Ive reviewed the exclusion in the policy, which is detailed below:
General exceptions
This policy does not insure the following:
1. Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear 
and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
For AA to rely on this exclusion it needs to evidence that it applies in this case. If it hasnt 
evidenced it, then it needs to settle the claim.
So, Ive thought about whether AA has acted fairly and reasonably in saying it has evidenced 
that the above exclusion, relating to gradual damage applies here. And I dont think it has.
I say this because I dont think it has provided a persuasive body of information to evidence 
its position that the damage had been caused over a period of time, rather than as a result of 
a one-off escape of water.
AA appointed a surveyor to attend Mr Ds property. As a surveyor attended the address, Id 
expect its report to detail the damage, as well as why the damage observed was something 
the surveyor could tell had been happened gradually. Rather than due to a one-off escape of 
water a few weeks earlier. But Ive seen a copy of the report completed as part of this visit. 
And it doesnt provide any explanation as to the why the observed problems were something 
that had been happening gradually, rather than on 31 January 2022.
AA has provided a number of photographs, which it says do evidence that the damage was 
gradual. It has referred to the photographs showing water staining, mould and cracking of 
plaster. But, the escape of water happened on 31 January 2022, and the surveyor visited the 
property some weeks after this. So, I have to accept its possible some water staining, mould 
and cracking could appear in the intervening period. And no persuasive narrative has been 
provided by AA accompanying those photos, detailing why that wasnt the case, and the 
situation would have been present and visible to Mrs D before 31 January 2022.
Given Im not persuaded that AA has evidenced that its more likely than not the damage 
occurred over a period of time, I dont think its fair for AA to rely on the gradual damage 
exclusion to decline Mrs Ds claim. Putting things right
It therefore follows that AA should deal with Mrs Ds claim, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of her policy. Mrs D has said she has had the repair work completed now. So, 
AA will need to reimburse Mrs D for the repair work completed to remedy the escape of 
water damage, on receipt of evidence of this, and in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Because Mrs D would have been without the funds, after paying for the repair work herself, I 
agree with our investigator that 8% simple interest should be provided on the funds spent to 
complete repair work needed to remedy the escape of water damage. I consider this 8% 
should be provided from the date Mrs D made payment for the work, to the date of 
settlement, less any tax properly deductible. 
If HM Revenue & Customers requires AA to deduct tax from this interest, AA should give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to carry out the actions noted in the putting things right section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman