The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund interest charged on her 
credit card purchases.
What happened
Mrs Z took out a credit card with Tesco that had a 28 month interest free credit period on 
purchases. When she was charged interest on her purchases, Mrs Z contacted Tesco to ask 
why. Tesco explained that her interest free period had recently expired, which she had been 
told about in advance.
Mrs Z complained to Tesco. Although Mrs Z accepted that it was her mistake that she wasnt 
aware that the interest free period had expired, she found paying the full fees difficult to cope 
with. Tesco replied and said that it had correctly charged interest on Mrs Zs purchases and 
wouldnt refund the charges. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Tesco applied a 2-month 
waiver on interest on Mrs Zs account to allow her time to clear the balance.
Mrs Z complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Tesco had been fair and reasonable in how it dealt with Mrs Zs complaint.
As Mrs Z did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Z accepts it was her mistake that she didnt realise that the interest free period was due 
to expire. However, she would like Tesco to remove the interest charges for her purchases 
as a gesture of goodwill.
I have thought about this carefully. Ive read the credit agreement issued to Mrs Z when she 
took out the credit card. This said that there was a 28 month interest-free period. Tesco also 
reminded Mrs Z that the interest-free period was due to expire by putting this information on 
a credit card statement and by sending her a letter a few weeks before the period expired. 
On that basis, Im satisfied that Mrs Z should have been aware that the interest free period 
was due to expire and that when Tesco charged interest that this was in line with the terms 
and conditions of the credit card.
When Mrs Z complained, Tesco confirmed that it was correct to charge the interest but, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it waived interest on her account for two months in order for Mrs Z to 
have the opportunity to clear her balance. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable 
and I have no reason to say that Tesco should take any further action.
DRN-1384789My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman