DRN-2928665
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as Fiserv didnt do 
enough to defend a chargeback which caused it a financial loss.
What happened
C took a payment from a client for £220 in January 2020 which it explains was a fee relating 
to a service provided. In April 2020 it received notification that the payment had been 
disputed by the cardholder. And it told First Data that its client had confirmed that this had 
been a mistake. It is unhappy that First Data took back the payment with a fee and said it 
wouldnt be doing anything further.
First Data said it hadnt made a mistake. It hadnt been provided with sufficient information to 
defend the chargeback in time and said that C needed to take this up with its client.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the merchant 
conditions and operating guide issued by First Data set out the specific risks for card not 
present transactions  and the £220 had been taken in this way. This also stated that Card 
Not Present Transactions are in all cases at your own risk. She didnt think that the email 
that C had sent saying its client had made a mistake was sufficient evidence to defend the 
chargeback.
C didnt agree and said that it wasnt happy with the basis on which the chargeback had 
been dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C was fairly bound by the terms of its agreement with First Date and this sets out Cs liability 
for chargebacks. Our investigator has referred to the specific risks that relate to card not 
present transactions and which are set out in the operating guide.
C says it contacted its client about the chargeback and related payment. And it wrote to First 
Data on 13 April 2020 to say that its client had told it that the chargeback was raised in error 
and that she would contact her own bank. First Data told C that this wasnt enough for it to 
defend the chargeback. And when it was contacted by C again on 28 April 2020 that the 
deadline for it disputing the chargeback had then passed and C would need to take the 
matter up with its client. 
I appreciate that C says it had evidence to challenge the chargeback including a telephone 
recording. And that a related transaction carried out with a third party on behalf of the client 
hadnt been challenged. It wanted to know how what it considered to be a fraudulent claim 
by its client would be investigated.
Im afraid that this would be outside the chargeback scheme and not something First Data 
would reasonably be expected to follow up. It had to deal with the chargeback request 
relating to this payment within a set period of time based on the process and made a 
decision about whether to defend this on the evidence available. I dont think it acted 
unreasonably. C had unfortunately continued to rely on its own clients assurances. And 
clearly she hadnt withdrawn the chargeback as indicated or dealt with any liability. This is 
now fairly a matter between C and its client and so I wont be asking First Data to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman