DRN-3474055
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that when they took out a new mortgage product with Barclays Bank 
PLC that the monthly payments they had to make were more than they were quoted.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with Barclays. They have also been making overpayments 
and theres about £12,000 to the credit of the overpayment balance. They had a mortgage 
product that was coming to an end in September 2021 and they wanted to have another one 
in place by October. They chose a mortgage product with a rate of 1.39%. The mortgage 
offer quoted monthly payments of £1,061.86 based on a mortgage balance of £219,961.81 
effective from 1 August. As the new first payment wasnt to start until October, Mr and Mrs M 
expected the payments to be less than quoted as they made some further payments in the 
meantime. But when Mr and Mrs M got the annual statement in November it showed the 
monthly payment as £1,116.51. Barclays had in fact taken a higher payment in November, 
but this appears to have been a timing issue and the excess was refunded. Mr and Mrs M 
tried to get an explanation from Barclays for the difference between the quoted and actual 
payments but apart from assurances that the actual payment was correct didnt get a 
satisfactory explanation.
Our investigator said that Barclays had explained that the difference arises because of the 
overpayments which results in the mortgage calculations using two different balances  the 
Loan balance and the Calculating Capital Balance which is the Loan Balance minus any 
overpayments made to date. Barclays used the Calculating Capital Balance for the purposes 
of the mortgage offer and the Loan Balance for the actual repayments. Our investigator 
thought that this was a reasonable explanation for the difference and could see no manifest 
error in the calculations and so didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr 
and Mrs M disagreed saying in summary that they should have got this explanation 
themselves from Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read our investigators view setting out how this situation arose and as I understand it Mr 
and Mrs M are satisfied with the explanation but dissatisfied that they had to come to us to 
get that explanation. As I see it the complication here has been the overpayments and that 
Barclays operates two balances. One called the calculating capital balance on which the 
actual interest is calculated and where the overpayments are included and the other being 
the loan balance which is the balance as if the overpayments hadnt been made. The 
mortgage offer is based on the first balance and the actual mortgage payments on the 
second. There is a section on Barclays website Mortgage overpayments and 
underpayments which set out how overpayments affect the monthly payments and 
mortgage balance. There are two sections relevant to this issue from that website which Ive 
quoted below.
Overpayments lower than 3 times your usual monthly payment
These overpayments help you pay off your mortgage sooner but your monthly payment 
stays the same. They go into an overpayment balance, which we take into account when 
working out your interest charges. The overpayments build up to an amount that can help 
you pay off your mortgage sooner. It can also enable you to make underpayments in future, 
which we explain in detail below.
Revised monthly payment higher than expected?
When we work out your new monthly payment amount following a change to interest rates, 
the amount stored in your overpayment balance isn't taken into account  so your monthly 
payment may be higher than you expect.
I hope these sections explain why the monthly payments are higher than quoted. As they are 
on the website and contain that explanation, I would have thought it met the criteria of 
treating a customer fairly and providing appropriate information. As our investigator noted 
there is no manifest error that suggests that Barclays are calculating the figures incorrectly. 
As a result, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
I note that in their email to us of 10 May 2022, Mr and Mrs M raise other issues in respect of 
the overpayments and that Barclays arent adhering to what they say about how 
overpayments will be treated including what would happen if they moved to another lender.  
Im not sure whether Mr and Mrs M have had the advantage of reading the section from the 
website that I refer to above and given that they have invested £12,000 in overpayments 
they may want to do so. In any case, that is a separate issue to the differences between the 
quoted and actual monthly payment figures which forms the basis of this complaint. If Mr and 
Mrs M remain unhappy with how their overpayments are being treated and how they would 
be treated if they moved to another lender, they should raise that first with Barclays and 
await their response and of course if they remain dissatisfied with that explanation they can 
bring their complaint to us.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman