DRN-3244457
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging her excessive amounts for 
her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms B complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to her account. She 
said shed been experiencing financial difficulties and the charges had made things worse. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Ms B was dissatisfied, she referred the 
complaint to our service.
Ms Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he thought 
Santander ought to have realised that Ms B was experiencing difficulties by 5 December 
2017 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point 
onwards. Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 5 December 
2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms B was at significant risk of financial 
difficulties and so might struggle to repay her overdraft. 
I say this because by this point, Ms B was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Santanders own 
literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged 
day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Ms Bs overdraft usage should have prompted 
Santander to have realised that Ms B wasnt using her overdraft as intended and so it 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Santander didnt react to Ms Bs 
overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably. 
Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander 
didnt treat Ms B fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 5 December 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Ms B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Ms Bs credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 
2017. Santander can also reduce Ms Bs overdraft limit by the amount of the 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
Ms B over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Ms Bs credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Ms Bs overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman