DRN-2506031
The complaint
Mr W says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
says he had a lot of problems with other credit when he took the loan from LaH. He thinks it 
should have spotted this and not lent to him. He also says that LaH didnt properly record his 
income and expenditure. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan LaH provided to Mr W. Mr W borrowed 
£300 on 26 September 2019. He was due to make 33 weekly repayments of £15. Mr W 
struggled to make the repayments shortly into the loan term and I understand it still has an 
outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr W could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
As Ive said above, Mr W needed to repay around £15 a week for 33 weeks. Ive seen a 
record of the information he provided when he completed his loan application. Mr W said he 
had a weekly income of £445 and he had regular monthly outgoings of £351. 
LaH did some credit checks and these showed that Mr W had other credit that had 
repayments of £20 a week. And the credit check showed he was largely on top of his bills 
and repayments to other creditors. 
So overall, I think the information LaH gathered showed that the loan was affordable. 
I can see that Mr W was having some financial problems from the information he has 
provided. And he says that these affected his mental health. Whilst I do have some 
sympathy with this, I havent seen any further information that shows its likely LaH was made 
aware of these problems. And given that this was his first (and only) loan there wasnt any 
anything at this early point in the lending relationship that wouldve prompted LaH to 
investigate Mr Ws circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for LaH to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments LaH did before approving this 
loan were proportionate. And I think LaHs decision to approve the loan was reasonable and 
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman