DRN-3514817
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with AIG. It claimed on its policy after it was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AIG turned down Bs claim. They said that while the policy covered business interruption as 
a result of a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, B brought its complaint to our service. It said the policy 
included cover for SARS and therefore Covid-19 should be covered. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Bs claim. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided further information in support of why it 
thought Covid-19 should be covered under SARS. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Bs claim.
Our investigator explained why various parts of Bs policy didnt provide cover. Im going to 
focus my decision on the extension for infectious diseases as thats the part of the policy that 
appears to be in dispute. However, for completeness, Ive reviewed Bs policy and I dont 
consider that it provides cover for the claim. 
The relevant part of the extension in Bs policy says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order or advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result 
of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) 
manifested by any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of 
the Premises
The definition of disease within the policy includes SARS in the list of covered diseases but
not Covid-19. Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was
drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar
policies on the market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for
example policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a
Government-defined list. Bs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases
which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would
provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can
fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS and I understand B strongly believes that
this includes Covid-19. So, Ive considered this point.
While both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses, SARS is an infectious disease
in its own right and is listed separately in the Government defined list of notifiable diseases. 
The World Health Organisation acknowledged that whilst the two illnesses were related, they
were different and caused different diseases. Because of this, I dont agree that Covid-19
can be treated as SARS for the purpose of attracting cover under the policy terms. Rather, I
think the term SARS used in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical
illness. And whilst I appreciate that the diseases are part of the same family, I think to
interpret them interchangeably would render the list AIG have set out, redundant.
This position is also supported by recent case law. In Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers
Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 the Judge was presented with an argument that
Covid-19 fell under various other diseases listed in an insurance policy. It was held that the
key to cover was the disease itself and not how it was brought about.
Therefore, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that the list
of covered diseases extends to include Covid-19 and I think it was reasonable for AIG to 
decide that cover wasnt available under this extension.
I recognise this isnt the answer B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I cant fairly require AIG to pay its claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman