DRN-3665760
The complaint
Mrs D is complaining that Fortrade Limited closed contract for difference (CFD) positions at 
the wrong price and without her permission, causing her significant financial loss. Mrs Ds 
husband, Mr K, has represented her throughout the complaint, so Ill also refer to him in my 
decision.
What happened
On 2 October 2020, Mrs D held long and short positions in a certain stock, R. In the 
afternoon, Fortrade closed both these positions, as well as a long position in another stock, 
because Mrs Ds account no longer met Fortrades margin requirements. 
Mr K complained straight away. He was upset that Mrs Ds positions had been closed. But 
he was particularly angry that the positions in R had been closed with a very large spread. 
The buy position had been closed at 111.40p and the sell position at 129.90p. This meant 
that Mrs Ds attempts to hedge her positions were much less effective than intended. The 
three positions were closed with a total loss of around £3,500.
Fortrade offered to re-open Mrs Ds positions as if they hadnt been stopped out. But Mr K 
wasnt happy with this resolution. Hed seen something similar happen on his wifes account 
previously and had been told at the time that it wouldnt happen again. So instead he said he 
wanted her money back. 
In their final response letter, Fortrade explained that their prices are set by their liquidity 
provider and that they are influenced by many factors. They said that at the time in question, 
thered been a significant news announcement about R which had led to widened spreads, 
beyond Fortrades control. They set out the various parts of their contractual documents and 
said that what had happened wasnt their fault. But they offered to pay Mrs D the £3,500 
shed lost when the positions were closed as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K didnt accept the offer  he said his wife had lost around £33,000. Unable to agree 
things with Fortrade, he brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
the matter but couldnt reach an agreement with Mr K  so the complaints come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging that Mrs D and Mr K will be disappointed, Im not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The price and spread
As Fortrade explained to Mrs D, the CFD price is set by their liquidity provider and Fortrade 
dont have control over it. This is clearly set out in Fortrades Best Interest and Order 
Execution Policy. So I cant say Fortrade did anything wrong. Having said that, Ive looked 
briefly at what caused the larger than usual spread. 
Mr Ks said he cant find the price quoted any higher than 114p on that day. But a CFD price 
is often different from the market price of the underlying equity. Thats because the CFD 
price takes into account futures pricing and the spread as well as the underlying share price. 
Usually the difference is only a small margin but its not unheard of for it to be larger  
particularly at times of high volatility. 
On 2 October 2020, the volatility of Rs share price was particularly high due to 
announcements made by the company on the day before and the associated analysis. Its 
clear that this impacted the prices available and the spread. 
The margin stop-out 
Fortrades system forced the closure of Mrs Ds positions because of the unusual pricing. 
Their terms and conditions allow them to do this, and neither Mrs D nor Mr K have disputed 
this. I cant say Fortrade acted unfairly in closing Mrs Ds positions. 
And I note that Fortrade did acknowledge the unusual circumstances and offered to reinstate 
Mrs Ds positions when Mr K first complained. When Mr K rejected this, Fortrade later 
offered to refund Mrs Ds losses on the closure. Both of these offers go beyond what I can 
ask Fortrade to do given Ive found they havent done anything wrong.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint about Fortrade Limited. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject 
my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman