DRN-3553360
The complaint
Mr K complains about AJ Bell Asset Management Limited.
He says that AJ Bell sold shares held within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) at a 
lower price than was indicated to him in its communications to him. Mr K says that he 
wouldnt have agreed to sell the shares at the price they were sold at and feels that AJ Bell 
shouldve contacted him again for further consultation and consent on the final sale price.
What happened
In July 2020, AJ Bell contacted Mr K to let him know that it had been contacted by a third 
party which had expressed an interest in buying shares that Mr K held within his SIPP.
In this communication, AJ Bell asked if Mr K would be interested in selling his shares and 
invited him to express his interest. It later provided a guide sale price of 0.85 GPB per share.
In February 2021, AJ Bell communicated with Mr K again, confirming that the sale had taken 
place, and that the price of the shares was approximately 0.36 GBP per share.
Mr made a complaint to AJ Bell  but by April 2021 had only received acknowledgement that 
an investigation was still ongoing. As the matter hadnt been resolved to Mr Ks satisfaction, 
he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. They said 
that although Mr K was disappointed with the actions of AJ Bell, they didnt feel that it had 
done anything wrong. They also said after Mr K had made his complaint, AJ Bell reverted 
back to the buyer, and obtained further payment which brought the sale price of the shares 
up to the 0.85 GBP initially suggested. AJ Bell had also offered Mr K compensation of £100 
and they didnt recommend that AJ Bell needed to do anything further.
Mr K then asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld, and I dont think that 
AJ Bell need to any more than it has done already to put things right for Mr K. I know this will 
be disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why.
In July 2020, AJ Bell sent Mr K a secure communication informing him that a third party was 
interested in buying shares that Mr K held. Two options were provided to Mr K  namely to 
register his interest and participate in the sale, or to do nothing. He wasnt given the option to 
wait for confirmation of the sale price before making a final decision on whether to sell.
On reviewing this communication, I think that AJ Bell did make it clear to Mr K that the sale 
price indicated was not guaranteed  and there was also nothing to suggest that AJ Bell 
needed to obtain a particular price before acting on the instruction given. I also think that it 
was clear that by registering his interest in the sale, Mr K gave AJ Bell permission to sell. I 
should also say that AJ Bell had no obligation to provide advice to Mr K as to whether to take 
up the offer presented.
That said, I can see that when Mr K made his complaint to AJ Bell, it contacted the 
purchaser and it was confirmed that further payment would be made, bringing the sale price 
up to the 0.85 GBP Mr K was expecting. AJ Bell says that it wasnt originally aware that 
there would be a two-stage payment.
Of course, it wouldve been preferable and clearer had this been made known to Mr K  but 
as it stands, I cant say that he has suffered any financial loss here. 
AJ Bell has already offered Mr K compensation of £100 to make up for its service failings 
and I feel that this is an appropriate amount given the circumstances of the complaint  so I 
wont be asking it to increase the amount of compensation it has offered. 
I know that Mr K has asked if he was the only customer that was affected in this way, but as 
our Investigator has already explained, this Service cant ask AJ Bell for information on any 
other customers investments.
Mr K has also asked if the second payment wouldve been paid to him, had he not made his 
complaint. I can understand why he wants to know this, but Im afraid this is something I 
cannot answer definitively. The fact is that he did make the complaint, and the payment was 
made. So, even if AJ Bell said that the second payment wouldve been made even if Mr K 
hadnt complained, I cant be certain that this would be the case. And ultimately, I dont think 
this affects my findings on this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman