DRN-3858063
The complaint and what happened
Miss P complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) provided her with a catalogue 
shopping account that she could not afford, and then increased the limit on it.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from November 2022, 
which form part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I 
thought the checks that Studio should have carried out more in-depth checks 
before lending, and that those checks would likely have shown that the 
borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Miss P.
I asked both Miss P and Studio to let me have any more information they wanted me to 
consider. Neither party has responded to the provisional decision, except to confirm 
they received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and have included here the relevant sections of my 
provisional decision:
What happened
In October 2021 Studio approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of £350 for 
Miss P. It then increased that limit in April 2022 to £500. It would appear that her account 
remains in good order.
After Studio rejected her complaint, Miss P brought the case to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the evidence and thought that Studio hadnt done anything significantly 
wrong. Miss P didnt accept that and asked that the case be passed to an Ombudsman for 
review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Studio is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
these credit limit increases, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Miss P would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in 
a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the 
repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Miss P needed to be able to meet all her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Studio for the credit limit to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Studio carry out proportionate checks?
Studio carried out a high-level credit check, asked Miss P about her income, and made 
some statistical assumptions about disposable income before approving the lending.
The adjudicator thought that Studio ought to have carried out more in-depth checks, both at 
the time of the account opening in October 2021 and before granting a credit limit increase 
in April 2022.
I agree, noting particularly the low income of less than £1,000 per month declared by Miss 
P, meaning that I think there was a substantial risk around affordability for her. Therefore, 
Studio needed to look into her actual situation, e.g. by asking about her outgoings, to 
proportionately assess her application. (I say that despite the high-level credit checks 
indicating that her income was almost double what she had declared. However, I can only 
assume that figure was based on transfers into Miss Ps current account, much of which 
was transferred out again, and in fact the income she declared looks more accurate.)
What would Studio have found had it done proportionate checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several months 
of bank statements to review. I accept that there was and is no requirement on a lender to 
obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to source and rely on a range of 
evidence when assessing affordability, and so Studio could have opted to gather more 
information about Miss Ps financial position in a range of ways. However, it didnt, and, in 
the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely on the statements to demonstrate 
what Studio would most likely have discovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
The relevant statements suggest that Miss P had some financial struggles and essentially 
had no disposable income. Of key concern are the following issues evident from the bank 
statements:
A persistently very low balance, typically under £20.
Occasionally being overdrawn, seemingly without an agreed overdraft.
Apparent borrowing from friends/family.
A returned direct debit on a priority household bill.
Probable arrears on a priority household bill.
So I have seen no evidence of any disposable income with which Miss P could have made 
repayments to this account, despite the fact that any repayments may well have been 
modest. It is an almost inescapable conclusion, therefore, that Miss P would have had to 
borrow to do so. I have already explained that, under the rules in force, that does not equate 
to the lending being affordable and sustainable for her. It therefore follows that I dont think 
Studio should ever have approved this account for Miss P, and I plan to uphold this 
complaint.
As neither party has responded to the findings contained in my provisional decision, I have 
no reason to depart from them. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss P, I direct Studio to do the following:Rework the account to remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) 
incurred on the account since opening.
If after the rework the balance would have been cleared, Studio must refund any 
overpayments to Miss P with 8% simple interest per year*, calculated from the date 
of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If after the adjustment an outstanding balance remains, Studio must try to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss P. Once the balance has been fully cleared, 
whilst Im not aware of any, should there be adverse information about the account 
on Miss Ps credit file, that should be removed.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and direct Studio Retail Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman