DRN-3423513
The complaint
The estate of Mr O complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd refused a terminal illness claim 
made against his life assurance policy. And that they wouldnt extend the term of his policy 
prior to it expiring.
The estate of Mr O is represented by his wife, Mrs O.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr O set up a life assurance policy with Zurich in July 2010. It provided £100,000 of cover 
over a ten-year term for premiums of about £35 per month. The policy didnt include critical 
illness cover but did provide a terminal illness benefit. Cover commenced from 1 August 
2010. 
In 2013 Mr O was diagnosed with testicular cancer. He fortunately responded well to 
treatment and was considered to be in complete remission. 
In 2019 Mr O was diagnosed with prostate cancer which he received treatment for. He then 
started experiencing headaches in May 2020 and, after a road traffic accident, had an MRI 
scan in July 2020. This showed lesions within the brain that raised suspicions of lymphoma 
(brain cancer). A biopsy was performed in August 2020 confirming this.
The policy expired  ending cover  on 31 July 2020.
Mr O sadly didnt respond well to treatment and died on 16 January 2021.
A claim was made against the policy but this was refused by Zurich. Mrs O complained as 
she said her husband received a terminal illness diagnosis prior to it expiring. She was also 
unhappy that Zurich wouldnt extend the term of the policy before it expired, as she said she 
called Zurich in July 2020 to do so but was told they couldnt due to her husbands health 
problems. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. They said they werent able to review a claim as Mr Os 
terminal illness diagnosis was in the last 12 months of the policy term. And, under the terms 
of the policy, this isnt covered. Zurich also explained that Mr Os policy had a ten-year term 
and they wrote to him in May 2020 to explain it was due to end on 31 July 2020 so he 
needed to consider his options. But, having checked their records, they didnt receive any 
telephone calls or written correspondence to start a new policy. 
The matter was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Zurich 
had acted unfairly. In short, he said:
The medical evidence shows Mr O received his brain cancer diagnosis in August 
2020 following the biopsy. This was after the expiry of the policy and so wouldnt be 
covered. But even if Mr O had received a terminal illness diagnosis shortly before the 
policy expired, with a prognosis of less than twelve months to live, it wouldnt be 
covered. This is because the policy excludes terminal illness claims in the last 12 
months of cover. 
He thought this exclusion was clearly set out in the policy terms.
Although Mr O was also diagnosed with cancer  both testicular and prostate - during 
the period of cover, the policy didnt include critical illness benefit. The policy paid out 
on death but it accelerated the payment for terminal illness if, prior to the final 12 
months of cover, the prognosis was less than 12 months to live. He didnt think that 
was the case for Mr O.
He noted Mrs Os dissatisfaction at the policy term not being extended as she 
considered it shouldve been automatically renewed without any health questions 
being asked  as set out in the policy terms. But he explained that Mr Os policy 
included the option to opt for additional benefits including Convertible Term and 
Renewable Term (allowing for cover to extended) but neither of these were 
selected. This meant these options werent available to Mr O.
Zurich wrote to Mr O in May 2020 reminding him that his policy was nearing the end 
of its term and in August 2020 to confirm it had expired. Having seen Zurichs 
records, there isnt anything to show they were contacted before the policy expired. 
Mrs O disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly assure Mrs O that Ive carefully considered everything shes said in support of 
this complaint. I realise this will be a very difficult time and I dont underestimate the 
importance of this matter to her. What I must consider here though is whether Zurich has 
acted fairly by refusing the claim and, as Mrs O alleges, declining her request for the policy 
to be extended in July 2020. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs O but, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I think they have. 
The policy terms set out the contractual agreement between Zurich and Mr O. This includes 
when Zurich is required to pay a claim and so I think its appropriate to consider them here. It 
says:
When well pay the life cover
Well pay the cash sum early if you die during the plans term. Well pay the cash sum 
early if, before the last 12 months of the plans term, you are diagnosed with a 
terminal illness.
Mr O died after cover ended and so a death claim isnt payable under the policy. Ive 
therefore looked at whether the terminal illness benefit applies. The policy terms define a 
terminal illness as an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness, where, in the 
opinion of an attending consultant, and in the reasonable opinion of our Chief Medical 
Officer, your life expectancy is no more than 12 months.This means that for a terminal illness claim to be payable Mr O needed a prognosis of less 
than 12 months to live before 31 July 2019.
Mr O was diagnosed with cancer on three occasions  that being testicular cancer in 2013, 
prostate cancer in 2019 and brain cancer in 2020. From the medical evidence available, it 
seems Mr O was in complete remission from the testicular cancer after undergoing treatment 
and so theres nothing to suggest he was given a prognosis of less than 12 months to live as 
a result from this condition.
Although theres been some dispute around whether Mr O was diagnosed with brain cancer 
in July or August 2020, even if it was the former, that would still be within the 12-month 
exclusion period in which terminal illness claims arent payable as per the above policy term. 
Therefore, the only condition that could be considered here would be the prostate cancer. 
But while Im aware Mr Os death certificate listed prostate cancer as a contributary cause of 
death, with the cause of death being brain cancer, there isnt any medical evidence to show 
that  prior to 31 July 2019  the prognosis wouldve been less than 12 months to live for this 
condition either. 
I understand Mrs O says that the key features document, which her husband wouldve relied 
upon when taking out the policy, doesnt refer to a 12-month exclusion period for terminal 
illness claims. Ive looked at the key features document and I can see, on page three in 
respect of the plan aims, it says:
Life cover that pays a cash sum if, during the plans term, you die or are diagnosed 
with a terminal illness and are expected to live for less than 12 months.
Although this doesnt refer to the 12-month exclusion period, on page 3 under Risk factors, 
it also says:
We will not pay a claim in the circumstances described in When will the plan not 
pay out? on page 12.
And the relevant section on page 12 says:
We will not pay a claim for life cover if:

We will not pay the terminal illness benefit if you are diagnosed during the last 12 
months of the term of the plan.
Im therefore satisfied that the 12-month exclusion period for the terminal illness benefit was 
clearly set out in both the policy terms and the key features document. Because of this, and 
in the absence of anything to show Mr O had a prognosis of less than 12 months to live 
before 31 July 2019, I consider Zurich acted fairly by refusing the claim. 
Mrs O has also complained that Zurich wouldnt allow the policy term to be extended when 
she called them in July 2020. Zurich dont have a record of such a call and so, if it did take 
place, I cant be sure what was discussed. That said, even if Mrs O was told by Zurich that 
her husbands policy couldnt be extended, I dont think that was incorrect.
The type of policy Mr O took out allowed him to include optional benefits at an extra cost. 
This included convertible term and renewable term which would allow for cover to be provided beyond the initial term. The policy terms explain that if these optional benefits are 
included they will be listed on the schedule. Having looked at Mr Os policy schedule, neither 
of the benefits were selected. And so, it wouldnt have been possible  under the terms of 
the policy - for Mr O to have benefitted from either of these options in July 2020.
Mrs O has however said that she was told her husbands cover couldnt be extended due to 
his health conditions. Given Mr O didnt have the optional benefits included on his policy 
then, if the call did take place, I think its likely Zurich might have explained to Mrs O that it 
wouldnt be possible for a new policy to be set up (rather than the existing one extended). 
This is because a new policy would require underwriting by Zurich based on Mr Os health at 
that time. And so, considering the severity of Mr Os brain cancer in July 2020, it seems 
unlikely that he wouldve been insurable due to his condition. 
I appreciate this is a very upsetting situation for Mrs O and I know it isnt the outcome shes 
hoping for. But I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly by refusing the terminal illness claim or 
if they told Mrs O her husbands cover couldnt be extended.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman