DRN-3683860
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction she didnt make. 
What happened
On 21 January 2022, Miss I was contacted by someone pretending to be from 
Lloyds fraud team. They said her account was being compromised. When Miss I 
said there wasnt money in this account, they told her theyd secure her Monzo 
account too and Miss I followed their instructions to do this. 
On the same day, a £250 card payment was made using Apple Pay. Miss I contacted 
Monzo to report the transaction as she didnt recognise it. Monzo declined to refund it 
saying that she didnt take enough steps to keep her account safe. Unhappy with its 
response, Miss I brought her complaint to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo accepted this was an unauthorised transaction. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it asserts Miss I 
failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep her 
personalised security details safe.
Im not persuaded thats the right consideration. This was a card payment made 
online  so its a distance contract. It was seemingly to buy a retail voucher, so I dont 
think its an excepted contract. So, in line section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, Miss I isnt 
liable for the unauthorised transaction regardless of whether she failed with gross 
negligence. 
But even if Im wrong about that, I dont think Miss I failed with gross negligence.  I 
can see why Miss I trusted the caller given the personal information they knew about 
her. The context of the call  that someone was compromising her account and they 
needed to secure it - also made sense, given that Miss I was almost tricked into 
making a payment a short time before. 
Monzo point out that Miss I ought to have questioned how Lloyds and Monzo are 
linked. But I dont think she was significantly careless for not doing so  there are 
many banks that are legitimately connected after all. And Im mindful that its easy to 
be critical about what someone shouldve done with the benefit of hindsight. But 
Miss I was acting in the moment, when she trusted the caller and was concerned 
something was wrong. 
Miss I was asked to forward an email that ultimately gave access to her account  it 
seems they also asked for a PIN and a verification code. Shes explained she 
thought this was needed to secure the account. While we know thats not true, Im 
mindful that most people arent experts in fraud. So it can be difficult to question what 
would and wouldnt be needed in these situations. And this took place over the 
course of a relatively long call, where the caller gained Miss Is trust and primed her 
to expect what she was asked to share. Taking this all into account, I dont think she 
fell so far below what a reasonable wouldve done. 
In saying that, Ive considered Monzos point that theres a warning in the email not to 
share it. But as I mentioned, Miss I was told to expect the email and thought she was 
dealing with a trusted professional. So I can see how she might have missed it or 
thought it wasnt relevant in the moment  instead believing she was doing the right 
thing to protect her account.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss I failed with gross negligence. So, I 
conclude she isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo needs to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Monzo ought to have refunded this much sooner, but I note its already awarded £55 
compensation for delays and communication issues. Given the value in dispute, I 
dont propose a further award for Miss Is non-financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Is complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss I the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £250.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman