DRN-3079537
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs and Mr H 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which covered a mortgage. Both 
started in 1993.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. 
I also thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but I first wanted to set out my full thinking 
so that everyone could comment before I made a final decision. So I wrote a provisional 
decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI 
might have been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made 
in support of the complaint.
The sale of the PPI took place over 27 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of 
the original documents from the time are now held by Bank of Scotland  the 
documents Ive seen have come from Mrs and Mr H. Also its likely that 
recollections, of the details of what happened, will have faded.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As 
with all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based 
on what evidence there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest 
outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr H agree that Mr H signed an application form for PPI. But they say 
they were told the PPI would not go ahead unless they also completed the 
standing order form for payments to start. They say that, when they received the 
standing order form in the post, they decided not to go ahead with the PPI. 
However, in recent years, theyve discovered that Bank of Scotland took regular 
payments for several years, from their Bank of Scotland savings account, to pay 
for PPI. They say it was from an account they didnt use much, and they didnt 
notice the payments at the time.
Mrs and Mr H are, in effect, saying they never properly consented to the PPI and 
that it was added without their knowledge or consent. But the main problem is 
that I dont have strong- enough evidence to fairly conclude that the PPI was mis-
sold in this way.
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude the PPI started without proper consent unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, 
where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done something 
wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to make Bank of Scotland prove it didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago and documentary evidence is much 
harder to find. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago. So it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on 
everything Mrs and Mr H now remember.
Mrs and Mr H have sent us a copy of a standing order form (and covering letter 
from Bank of Scotland) they still have in their records. They say the fact, that this 
wasnt filled in and returned to Bank of Scotland, proves that they didnt agree to 
the payments.
I agree it is evidence that to some degree supports their case. But I dont find it 
conclusive. Theyve said they made their mortgage payments by visiting the 
branch. If this was their preferred method of banking, it is quite possible that they 
also completed a different standing order mandate when visiting the branch.
The adjudicator said that:
Due to the time thats passed since the payments for cover commenced 
its difficult to conclude that some form of consent (such as verbal consent) 
was not provided for the cover to be put in force. For this reason, I dont 
think the document that you have provided is sufficient to conclude the 
policy was set in force without your agreement or consent.
The adjudicator was saying something fairly similar to what Ive said  that 
there wasnt enough evidence to show Mrs and Mr H didnt agree to the 
payments in some other way, even if they didnt return that particular standing 
order form.
In response, Mr H has said:
I'm being told my claim is not being upheld at this stage as you suspect I 
may have given verbal confirmation for the payments to be deducted. I'm 
finding this hard to understand as during my employ I have attended 
Contract Training courses where I was told verbal authorisation is not 
worth the paper [it] is written on and holds "no water" in a court of law.
In my view the actual contract consent was the application for the PPI, which Mr 
H signed. He did give his consent at that point. But hes also saying that he gave 
that consent on the understanding that it was only what you might call 
conditional consent  that is that the consent wouldnt be confirmed until he 
completed the standing order instruction.
It is in fact possible in law to give verbal consent to a contract  although it could 
be unwise not to get that confirmed in writing as proof, which is no doubt why Mr H 
was trained that way. But, in my view, the issue of verbal consent is not actually relevant to this case. The fact is that, if Mrs and Mr H didnt in some way instruct 
the bank to make the payments, then this was wrong. You can look at is as either 
them not giving consent to the PPI (if their memory of what they were told is 
correct, and they had only given conditional consent). Or you can see it as a 
banking failure by Bank of Scotland in making unauthorised payments. But the 
overriding problem is that, either way, there simply isnt enough evidence for me 
fairly to conclude that the payments were made without Mrs and Mr H giving a 
proper instruction.
So my current view is that I shouldnt uphold the complaint on that point.
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-
sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply.
When they first complained and filled in our questionnaire, Mrs and Mr H said 
Bank of Scotland had recommended the PPI to them. But, in response to the 
adjudicator, they are saying they dont agree it was recommended.
Bank of Scotland says it believes it did recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr H.
This can be important in some cases because, when an insurance product is 
recommended, we would judge the banks sales process by a higher standard 
 it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr Hs particular 
circumstances.
Recommended, in technical insurance language, means that that the seller 
made an assessment of the customers circumstances and needs, and was 
telling them this product would be a good fit for those needs. Looking at the 
application form, and the questions that have been answered about Mrs and Mr 
Hs circumstances, my conclusion is that Bank of Scotland probably did 
recommend the PPI in this way.
But, in fact, it doesnt make a difference to the overall outcome of this particular 
case. This is because I think a recommendation would have been appropriate 
based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Hs situation at the time:
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain 
types of borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider 
covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr H (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would 
have been entitled to make a claim if needed.
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when
Mrs and Mr H would need to fall back on any savings or other means they 
may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mrs and Mr H in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. Ive 
not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr H couldnt afford the PPI 
when they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way.There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mr H would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation 
would have been suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr H to decide whether 
they wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Also, the monthly price of the policy was shown on the application form, along 
with reasonable essential information about the type of cover. So I think Mrs 
and Mr H would have understood how much it would cost and what they were 
agreeing to.
Mr H has said he discovered terms in the policy that made it unsuitable for him, 
and that was why he decided against going ahead with it. He has said:
1 Policy did not pay out unless I [was] working less than 16 hours a 
week
2 I have to be in continuous employment of 12 months (would 
have impact if I changed my employer)
3 No benefits would be paid for any form of disability unless 
the disability was incurred while following my normal occupation or 
profession.
Ive read the policy, and I dont agree with Mr Hs understanding of these policy 
terms  although I can understand why he thought this, as the wording could be 
much clearer. The policy has been written by someone who doesnt realise that 
most people dont understand the complexities of insurance. But I dont think these 
policy terms, once you understand what they actually mean, would have made a 
recommendation by Bank of Scotland unsuitable.
The policy said:
Disability insurance
(1) A benefit will become payable under the Policy if the Insured Customer 
becomes disabled due to sickness, disease or bodily injury and unable to 
engage in his normal occupation or profession in the United Kingdom, 
Channel Islands or Isle of man and the disability continues for not less than 
thirty consecutive days occurring after the Commencement Date and 
before the Termination Date.
 (6) No benefit shall be payable for any period of disability, unless the 
Insured Customer was actively following his normal occupation or 
profession in the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or Isle of Man at the 
time the disability occurred or where the Insurer makes any payment for 
unemployment under clauses 12 or 13 in respect of the relevant day.
(7) Where benefit has been paid in respect of a claim, no benefit in respect 
of a subsequent claim shall be payable unless the Insured Customer his 
returned to his normal occupation or profession for at least one month prior 
to the commencement of the subsequent claim or, if the claim results from 
the same cause or condition as that on which the earlier claim was based, 
for at least six months.[]
Unemployment insurance
(1) A benefit will become payable under the Policy if the Insured 
Customer is entirely without gainful employment of at least 16 hours per 
week and not working for profit (which includes, in the case of the self-
employed, assisting, managing, or carrying on of any of the day-to-day 
running of the business) and is being credited with National Insurance 
contributions of the appropriate class by reason of being so unemployed 
and the unemployment continue, for not less than thirty consecutive days. 
An Insured Customer will not be classed as unemployed until the end of a 
period during which he is in receipt of a payment in lieu of notice.
(2) The unemployment must have commenced or occurred after the 
Commencement Date and before the Termination Date and immediately 
following a continuous period of employment of twelve months during 
which the Insured Customer had been following his normal occupation or 
profession in the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
Section 11(6) doesnt mean you literally have to have been at work when you 
became disabled. Instead it means that you cant claim disability benefit unless 
youre in a period of employment  the insurer is trying to protect itself from 
someone falling sick when theyre unemployed and making a disability claim. Im 
certain that is how a court or the ombudsman service would interpret this.
Section 12(1) isnt saying you are only covered if you normally work less than 16 
hours. Its saying that you cant claim if you are still working more than 16 hours. 
In other words, its a convoluted way of making the obvious point that you cant 
claim if you are still working full time. (16 hours or more a week is normally taken 
as counting as full time in insurance policies.)
Section 12(2) says that you have to have been continuously employed for 12 
months before making an unemployment claim. But that doesnt stop you from 
changing employer, as long as you continue to be properly employed in some 
way. Mr H has told us that, at the time, hed actually been working for his 
employer for more than nine years.
So, overall, my current view is that I dont have enough evidence fairly to 
uphold this complaint.
Bank of Scotland made no further comment. Mrs and Mr H said they didnt agree with me, 
and sent me detailed comments on my provisional decision. They also sent me copies of the 
account from which the PPI premiums had been taken, and in which they kept savings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to confirm my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint. 
In their response to the provisional decision, Mrs and Mr H have given more detail of their 
main points of complaint. I acknowledge what they are saying, but these dont affect the 
underlying problem that there isnt enough evidence to confirm what they now recall. There are some specific points I have commented on here. 
Mrs and Mr H say they are complaining about Bank of Scotland taking PPI payments without 
authorisation, as well as for mis-selling the PPI policy. In this decision Im looking only at 
whether the PPI was mis-sold. Mrs and Mr H would need to make a separate complaint to 
Bank of Scotland about unauthorised payments being taken from their account. 
They say that, even though 27 years have passed, there was nothing really to forget about 
the meeting as they were simply asked five yes/no questions and were given a single sheet 
of benefits and exclusions to take away. I accept it is possible Mrs and Mr H remember 
completely what happened in the meeting. But I still cant be sure, as I dont have supporting 
evidence of what they remember. And, more importantly, I cant discount the possibility they 
filled in a payment authorisation at some later date but now dont remember it; or that they 
were aware of the payments being taken from their savings account, but have since 
forgotten. 
Mrs and Mr H say they do not understand how Bank of Scotland can confirm they had PPI 
and yet not have full documentation to show the Mrs and Mr H fully authorised the PPI 
payments. I can see Mrs and Mr Hs point, but in fact I dont find this surprising. We have 
dealt with very many thousands of PPI complaints and, quite often, the only evidence of PPI 
is an old computer record of an account which includes PPI premiums being paid. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked why I have said they originally told us the PPI had been 
recommended to them. I based this on the ombudsman PPI Questionnaire, which Mrs and 
Mr H filled in, when first contacting us. Under question B4 we ask, did the financial business 
give you advice or recommend you take out this insurance? And the box yes is ticked and 
then against that, written by hand, it says  - RECOMMENDED. 
However, as Ive said in my provisional decision, the question of whether or not it was 
recommended doesnt actually make a difference, in this particular case. It can make a 
difference only if we think the PPI was recommended and that such a recommendation was 
unsuitable in the customers circumstances. But, as I said, even if was recommended, Im 
satisfied it would have been a suitable recommendation in Mrs and Mr Hs circumstances. 
If it hadnt been recommended, it would still have been a mis-sale, in terms of information 
given, if Bank of Scotland:
had failed to give enough information about the PPI; and, 
if the missing information is likely to have made a difference to whether Mrs and Mr H 
would have taken the PPI. 
But I cant, anyway, see that theres likely to have been information missing thats likely to 
have made a difference. Mrs and Mr H seem to have understood the basic provisions of the 
PPI and the costs, and I cant see anything which is likely to have put off someone in their 
circumstances.
Mr H has said he wouldnt have taken the PPI if hed known about some of the more 
technical aspects of the PPI  for example the requirement that, after a successful claim, he 
would need to complete a further six months working before making another claim. However, 
this wouldnt be the type of detail I would expect Bank of Scotland to provide during a sales 
conversation  it is a fairly common type of provision, but one that in reality is unlikely to 
affect many customers. Its a way of the insurer protecting against a customer who makes a 
sickness claim for the full number of months permitted, returns to work for a brief time, and 
then starts a whole new claim for a further maximum limit for essentially the same illness. I 
cant really imagine thats likely to have been a significant concern for Mrs and Mr H. Mr H has again said how secure his employment was, and he also says he had enough in 
his savings account to cover mortgage payments for over a year. However, it has to be 
remembered that, if he lost his income through redundancy or long-term sickness, he would 
also have to meet his other ongoing living costs, which his wages would previously have 
helped pay for. So these savings may not have lasted so long. And the PPI would anyway 
leave Mrs and Mr H in a more secure position for longer. 
In conclusion, Ive noted the points Mrs and Mr H have made, but I still dont have enough 
evidence to say this PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman