DRN-3109059
The complaint
Mr T complains about various charges invoiced to him by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) after his hire agreement with it came to an end.
Mr T is represented in his complaint by a third party. But for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by this third party as if they had been submitted by Mr T himself.
What happened
Mr T entered into a hire agreement with VWFS in 2016 for a new car.
Under the terms of this agreement Mr T undertook to:
make an advance payment of £2,643.12 followed by 35 monthly rentals of £440.82
pay, at the end of the hire period, 10.8 pence (9.0 pence plus VAT) for every mile he 
had travelled in excess of 30,000
return the car at the end of the hire period in good repair and condition
At the end of the hire term Mr T returned the car to VWFS with a recorded milage of 38,419.
On return, the car was inspected, and the following damage noted:
bonnet front  paint chips  refinish £110.40
door mirror assembly RHF  broken  replace £346.31
spare key  missing  replace £132.00
wheel LHF  scratched  refurb £36.00
wheel LHR  scratched  refurb £36.00
wheel RHF  scratched  refurb £36.00
total £696.71
After the above inspection had been carried out VWFS invoiced Mr T the following:
damages (£696.71 - £132.00 [spare key]) £564.71
excess mileage ([38,419  30,000] x 10.8 pence £909.25
total £1,473.96
Unhappy with the above Mr T complained to VWFS. In summary he said he was advised by 
the credit broker that the mileage limit (for affordability reasons) needed to be set at 10,000  
rather than a higher amount  and in any event, any excess mileage charge would be 
wiped by VWFS when the car was returned. Mr T also said that he didnt agree with all the 
damage charges and wanted  in respect of some of them  more information.
VWFS considered Mr Ts complaint and issued him with a final response letter (FRL).
In this FRL VWFS said the excess milage charge of £909.25 was, under the terms of the 
hire agreement, payable and therefore wouldnt be waived or reduced. But it was, due to the 
lack of evidence, prepared to reduce the damage charge of £564.71 by £110.40 (bonnet 
damage), but the balance of £454.31 remained payable.
Unhappy with VWFS FRL, Mr T referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. In other words, VWFS was entitled to seek recovery of £1,363.56 (£909.25 excess 
mileage and £454.31 damages) from him.
Mr T responded to say that he disagreed with the investigators findings.
In summary he said:
he didnt sign the hire agreement at the dealership, despite VWFS (and the broker) 
saying he did
the investigator didnt address the above in his view
the above proves the broker misled him about excess milage
removal of one or more damage charges, after he complained, shows VWFS is 
trying to overcharge customers, incorrectly and unfairly
he would like to know what commission, if any, was earned by the credit broker for 
arranging the hire agreement
Following the above response another investigator advised Mr T that we couldnt consider, 
against VWFS, anything the broker might, or might not, have said to him when arranging the 
finance and this would need to be raised as a separate complaint against the broker. Mr T 
accepted this.
A further investigator then advised Mr T that having reviewed everything again he wasnt 
persuaded to change the first investigators view (that being VWFS was entitled to seek 
recovery from him the sum of £1,363.56) and because of this his complaint would now go on 
to be considered by an ombudsman.
Mr Ts complaint was passed to me for review and decision. Having carried out an initial 
review of Mr Ts complaint I asked the investigator to confirm with Mr T whether his hire 
agreement was terminated early (or whether it run to term) and whether he had asked 
VWFS, or complained to it, about the commission it had paid, if any, to the broker.
Mr T responded to say that the hire agreement run to term and he didnt think he had asked 
VWFS, or complained to it, about the commission it had paid, if any, to the broker.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigators and for broadly the same reasons.
First I would like to clarify what Ive gone on to consider here in this decision, and what I 
havent.
Mr T accepts that any complaint that he might have about what the broker might, or might 
not, have said to him when arranging the finance needs to be raised as a separate complaint 
against the broker (rather than VWFS). And for the avoidance of doubt I can confirm that Im 
of the view that this is the correct course of action. Therefore, I wont be considering this 
matter in this decision.
Mr T says he doesnt think he has asked VWFS, or complained to it, about the commission it 
had paid, if any, to the broker for arranging the hire agreement. And given that this point 
wasnt addressed by VWFS in its FRL, or addressed by the investigators, Im of the view this 
is something that needs to be raised by Mr T as a separate matter and/or complaint directly 
with VWFS, at least in the first instance.
But in any event, I can confirm I wont be considering this matter in this decision.
So, and for the avoidance of any doubt, I can confirm that what Ive gone on to consider in 
this decision is whether VWFS has done anything wrong in seeking from Mr T the sum of 
£1,363.56.
excess mileage
Ive considered what the hire agreement says in this respect.
It says:
Maximum Annual Mileage: 10,000 miles
Maximum Total Mileage: 30,000 miles
In accordance with term 10 of this Agreement, you may also pay us an excess vehicle 
mileage charge and (if you selected Maintenance) an excess maintenance charge (each 
together and separately referred to as Excess Mileage Charge) in accordance with the 
following scale: 9.00 pence (plus VAT) per mile
10 Mileage
10.1 You must make sure that the vehicle does not cover more than
10.1.1 the Maximum Annual Mileage in each succeeding period of 12 months 
starting from the making of this agreement, and/or
10.1.2 the Maximum Total Mileage10.2 When we ask, you must pay us the Excess Mileage Charge shown on page 1 (plus 
VAT) for each mile covered by the vehicle in excess of the Maximum Annual Mileage 
or the Maximum Total Mileage
With the above terms in in mind, I can confirm that Im satisfied that VWFS was entitled to 
charge Mr T £909.25 for excess miles travelled being 8,419 miles (38,419  30,000) at 10.8 
pence a mile (9.0 pence plus VAT).
damage charges
Ive considered what the hire agreement says in this respect.
It says:
9. Maintenance
9.5 You agree to return the Vehicle to us at the end of the hiring period in good repair and
condition except for fair wear and tear (as defined in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide)
Ive also reviewed the British Vehicle Rental Leasing Association's guidelines and note:
In respect of wheels and wheel trims: Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable
Having reviewed the photographic evidence provided by VWFS Im satisfied that on return of 
the car there were scuffs exceeding 50mm on three of the alloy wheels and a charge of £108 
for this (3 x £36) is both fair and reasonable.
In respect of windows, glass, door mirrors & lamps; Missing, cracked or damaged door 
mirrors are not acceptable
Having reviewed the photographic evidence provided by VWFS Im satisfied that on return of 
the car there was damage to the right door mirror and a charge of £346.31 for this is both fair 
and reasonable.
Other matters
There is some dispute as to where the hire agreement might have been signed. But Im 
satisfied that this has no bearing on my consideration of this complaint. I say this because, 
amongst other things, Mr T doesnt dispute he signed the agreement and accepts that any 
misrepresentations made by the broker need to be raised by him as a new and separate 
complaint against the broker directly.
I accept that after Mr T complained to VWFS one or more charges were waived by it. But my 
role is to consider what charges VWFS is still looking to recover from Mr T and that is what 
Ive done.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited is entitled to seek form 
Mr T, and can continue to seek from him, the sum of £1,363.56.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman