DRN-4323945
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M is a courier and insures his van with Haven. His van was damaged in an accident with 
another vehicle and so he claimed on his policy with Haven. Haven reviewed the claim and 
accepted it. Mr Ms van was assessed as what is known as a CAT S which means its 
repairable, but an insurer has decided not to. Haven said this was because the market value 
of Mr Ms van was £6,504 plus VAT and the repair costs were £4,186.98. 
Mr M didnt think it was fair for Haven not to repair his van and complained. He said hed 
bought the van a year earlier for almost £18,000 and if Haven dealt with it as a total loss, 
then he would end up with no van and owing the finance company around £10,000. He 
therefore asked Haven to repair his van. 
Haven reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It maintained its position to deal with Mr 
Ms claim as a total loss and pay him the market value rather than repair it. As there was 
finance on Mr Ms van this meant the full total loss amount would be paid to the finance 
company. Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint here. He said Haven not repairing his 
van meant hed had to rent one so he could continue to work. Mr M said this was causing 
him financial difficulties in paying his monthly bills.  
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
Haven had increased the market value for Mr Ms van to £8,640 including VAT, and this 
meant the repair costs were around 48% of the market value. She explained that most 
insurers would repair a vehicle with damage at a similar level and therefore thought Haven 
should have repaired Mr Ms van instead. She also recommended Haven pay Mr M what 
hed paid to rent a replacement van, as hed only needed to do so because Haven hadnt 
dealt with the claim fairly. 
Haven didnt agree, it said it was its choice whether to repair the van or deem it a total loss 
and it was likely to have more damage discovered when repaired. Haven also said it would 
normally deem a van a total loss when the repair cost is 50% or more of the market value. 
As Haven didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions say:
1. If Your Vehicle is damaged, at Our option We will: 
a) Repair the damage to Your Vehicle; or 
b) Settle the claim by monetary payment; or 
c) Provide You with a replacement Vehicle.
Haven decided the settle Mr Ms claim by monetary payment and offered him the market 
value. Ive therefore looked at whether this was a fair and reasonable way to settle Mr Ms 
claim and Im not persuaded it was. 
When Mr Ms van was deemed a total loss by Haven initially the repair costs were around 
54% of the market value of the van. Its not unusual for an insurer to deem a vehicle 
uneconomical to repair when the repair costs are above 60% of the market value. However 
Mr M objected to the market value and this was increased which then meant the repair costs 
were around 48% of the market value. When taking this into account, along with the financial 
impact this decision has on Mr M Im not satisfied Haven acted fairly by deeming his van a 
total loss. 
Mr M has finance on his van and the terms of the policy also say it will settle any finance first 
before paying Mr M. This meant after the finance had been paid Mr M would still owe the 
finance company around £10,000 and would have no van to work and generate an income 
for himself. I think Haven should have taken this into consideration when deciding whether to 
repair Mr Ms van, particularly given that the repair costs were of a lower percentage of the 
market value than most complaints Ive seen where an insurer has decided to write off a 
vehicle. 
When taking this into account, Im not satisfied Haven acted fairly by deeming his van a total 
loss. 
Ive therefore looked if there were another option Haven could have done. Haven could have 
either paid Mr M cash in lieu of repairs which would have allowed him to repair the van or 
repaired the van itself. Given the repair costs compared to the market value, in my 
experience, its not unusual for insurers to repair vehicles when the damage is 48% of the 
market value. And, in my view, this is the option it would have been fair and reasonable for 
Haven to have taken in this particular case. So, to settle Mr Ms claim, Haven needs to repair 
his van in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ive also looked at the impact Mr M has suffered due to Haven not repairing his van. Mr M 
said in order to continue working and mitigate any further losses hes needed to hire a 
replacement van at around £336 per week. If Haven had repaired his van as it should have, 
Mr M wouldnt have needed to hire a replacement van. Therefore, Haven should pay Mr M 
what hes paid to hire a van. Haven will need to cover this cost until the date Mr Ms van is 
repaired. As Mr M has been paying the costs for the hire van, Haven should also add 8% 
simple interest per year to the amount it pays, calculated from the date Mr M paid the hire 
costs until the date payment is made. 
Mr M has also explained that having to hire a van has caused him financial difficulties and I 
can see its been over a year since Mr M claimed. He said this has caused financial strain 
and is causing severe financial difficulty for him. On top of this Mr M explained hes been 
unable to afford other items due to the financial pressure and this has caused him further 
distress and inconvenience. To compensate Mr M for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience Haven caused by not repairing his van, it should pay Mr M £500 
compensation. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Repair Mr Ms van in line with the remaining terms and conditions
2. Pay what Mr M has paid to hire a replacement van until the date his van is repaired. 
8% simple interest per year will need to be added to what it pays, calculated from the 
date Mr M paid for the hire van until the date settlement is made
3. Pay Mr M £500 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman