DRN-4219463
The complaint
Mr L complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly issued 
a credit card to him, which he couldnt afford the repayments on.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr L successfully applied to 118 118 Money for credit card. This was issued to 
him, with a credit limit of £250. The limit wasnt increased.
Mr L complained that he couldnt afford the repayments on the card as he had large amounts 
of debt already from multiple lenders. He was spending substantial sums on gambling and 
already had substantial debts. He couldnt even afford to pay the monthly £3 subscription 
(the payment for running the account)..
118 118 Money said that Mr L was taken through extensive questions as part of the 
application to ascertain his circumstances. Once an application is submitted it is reviewed by 
its system and assessed against its scorecard. It uses industry standard verification checks 
to validate the information provided by the applicant on the application. It was satisfied that it 
acted correctly in approving Mr Ls application.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Adjudicator ultimately found that 
118 118 Money had acted reasonably in providing Mr L with the credit card, and that the 
review of Mr Ls circumstances showed that he had, at the time of the application, sufficient 
disposable income to pay any payment due on the credit card.
Mr L disagreed. He pointed out that around the time of the application he had just taken out 
several other loans. He said that a loan for which he was paying £462 a month was still 
outstanding at the time of his application and hadnt been taken account of. He pointed out 
that just before granting his application for a credit card, 118 118 Money had turned him 
down for a loan. He further said that his bank account showed that he was paying out 
substantial amounts on gambling.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mr Ls complaint.
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
118 118 Money carried out a credit check at the time of Mr Ls application  it also 
considered the information supplied to it by Mr L as to his circumstances. Whilst Mr L has 
shown us statements and other credit checks, its reasonable that I take into account the 
figures 118 118 Money used, as shown in its check.  
As Ive said, the checks needed to be reasonable and proportionate. The credit limit was set 
at £250 on the credit card issued to Mr L. That was a low figure, so 118 118 Money had to 
consider whether, if Mr L spent the maximum on the card, he could afford a minimum 
monthly payment of 5% of the outstanding balance. This is higher than the actual minimum 
payable in the agreement but we take the view that a minimum of 5% each month is 
reasonable.
Mr L declared a monthly income of £2,259. That appears to be realistic from looking at his 
bank statements. He lived with his parents and declared monthly expenses of £396. 118 118 
Money calculated that he had to make monthly payments of £732 for his loans and credit 
payments, leaving him with a disposable income of around £1,021 a month. On the basis 
that the credit search 118 118 Money had carried out showed it that he wasnt at the time in 
arrears or default on any of his debts, 118 118 Money assessed that he could afford the 
payments on the card.
I think 118 118 Money underestimated the amount Mr L had to pay out on credit. Using a 5% 
payment for revolving debt (credit cards/accounts), and using the figures shown in 
118 118 Moneys credit check, my calculations for Mr Ls monthly payments are:
Loan   £250 
Credit card 1   £181
Credit card 2   £  15
Credit card 3   £270
Bank overdraft  £ 50*
Total   £766
*Mr L says he was paying this amount.
Mr L declared other monthly expenses of £396. If I were to assess that as being too low, 
using a figure of 35% (as per the average set out by the Office for National Statistics) of his 
income this comes to £790 a month. And with the monthly rent payment of £110, Mr L would 
still have had a monthly disposable income of £594. 
Mr L clearly had a high amount of credit debt: of the three credit cards two were near the 
limit and one (the smallest balance) just over the limit. Ive noted that his bank account was 
overdrawn by £750, though this was something that had happened fairly recently. The loan 
for which Mr L said he was paying £462 had a nil balance showing on the credit check.I think, bearing in mind the level of credit applied for, that 118 118 Money carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. It could only act on the basis of the information it saw 
from the credit check and Mr Ls application. So, although he had recently taken out other 
loans, none of those loans had shown up on the credit check. And the reason that these may 
not have shown up may well have been because they had been approved and taken by Mr L 
in close proximity to applying for this credit card with 118 118 Money. Credit reference 
agencies can take 60 days (often more) to update. So although he had recently taken out 
other loans, none of those loans showed on the credit check, so it was up to him to declare 
them. 
Ive considered whether the checks 118 118 Money carried out should have led it to carry 
out further checks, like considering bank statements. As the statements showed 
considerable monthly sums spent on gambling it seems likely that Mr L would have been 
refused credit had 118 118 Money known this information (which he didnt disclose). But I 
dont think that checking the bank account would have been proportionate. Although the 
bank statements showed a recent overdraft Mr L appeared to have plenty of disposable 
income to afford the low level of monthly payment that would have been due on the card. 
Ive noted that, shortly before being issued with the credit card, Mr L was refused a loan by 
118 118 Money. He has sent us copy of the refusal, but I dont know the details of the 
application, particularly how much Mr L applied for. Different criteria would be used when 
deciding on a loan. It does highlight that Mr L had a high level of credit which might have 
been a bar to a loan but not to a credit card with a low credit limit.
Ive noted that the credit check showed several recent searches. Theres no indication on the 
face of the check that those searches led to a loan or other credit. And again bearing in mind 
that the checks need to be reasonable and proportionate, I dont think that the fact of those 
searches should have led to further enquiries. This is again bearing in mind the amount of 
credit being supplied.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman