DRN-2839390
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly allowed him to take out a loan which
was unaffordable. He also complains that he didnt receive a promised call back from it
about a more favourable interest rate.
What happened
Mr S says he took out a Lloyds loan in 2016 and was told he would receive a call from
Lloyds after 12 months to change the loan for one with more favourable terms. He says he
didnt receive that call and the loan was unaffordable as Lloyds didnt consider all his
expenditure. Mr S says he wasnt treated fairly by Lloyds when his circumstances
significantly changed in 2018 and it unfairly moved his loan to its recoveries team.
Lloyds says it carried out appropriate checks on Mr Ss loan application and at the time he
was receiving a regular income. It says Mr S didnt raise any issues with it at the time and
says it was the change in Mr Ss circumstances that caused the problem. Lloyds says it
doesnt have a record of the promised call and says it tried to help Mr S in 2018 but it was
clear the loan couldnt be repaid.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The
investigator didnt think there was a record of the promised call back and thought Lloyds had
tried to assist Mr S in 2018. But he thought Lloyds hadnt carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks on the application and hadnt appropriately looked at Mr Ss account
statements which would have shown that he used his overdraft. The investigator
recommended Lloyds refund the charges and interest and remove the default from Mr Ss
credit file.
Lloyds doesnt accept that view and maintains the application was appropriately credit
scored.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I thought the loan affordability problems were caused by the change in Mr Ss personal
circumstances and not by the lending decision.
I said that lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on credit 
applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of lending and the 
amount. I looked carefully at Mr Ss loan application and could see that he received a regular 
income and that the loan was intended to buy a new car which may have been linked to his 
job as a taxi driver. I could also see that Lloyds took into account Mr Ss main outgoings and 
credit scored the application. Having looked at Mr Ss income and outgoings I was satisfied 
that Lloyds was reasonably entitled to conclude the loan was affordable and that it did carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ss application.
I said I was satisfied that Mr S on the whole made the required loan re-payments until about 
2018 when it seems that Mr S lost his job and was unwell. I thought on balance that it was 
those factors that meant Mr S was unable to repay the loan rather than the unaffordability of 
the loan at the outset.
I said I had not seen any evidence on Lloyds records that it agreed to call Mr S after 12 
months from when the loan was taken out to discuss more favourable terms and I thought it 
unlikely any lender would agree to do so. So, I didnt think it likely that Lloyds agreed to call 
Mr S as he suggests.
I appreciated Mr S hadnt commented on the investigators view and hadnt told us if he
accepts what the investigator thought about the events of 2018 and about the help Lloyds
provided. I said that Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically. And I thought provisionally Lloyds did act in such a 
way here by trying to help Mr S, but it was clear he was unable to repay the loan and so 
Lloyds was reasonably entitled to register a default on Mr Ss credit file. I also thought Mr S 
had told Lloyds he was expecting money for a student loan for some time before 2018 but it 
doesnt appear that he ever received that money.
Overall my provisional view was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I said no doubt Mr S can 
tell me if the loan was for a new car in connection with his work and when it was bought. And 
I said I would of course look at any further information he may wish to send me such as his 
credit report and details of the family income as well as information about his outgoings that 
he says Lloyds didnt consider.
Neither side to this complaint has responded to my provisional decision and in the case of 
Mr S he hasnt provided the additional evidence I said I would look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman