DRN-2810627
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive application Miss H made to re-mortgage her home 
onto a consumer buy-to-let basis. The transaction, which was recommended by a broker 
representing Countrywide Principal Services Limited fell through because Miss Hs 
circumstances didnt meet the selected lenders qualifying criteria. Shes seeking a refund 
of the fee she paid Countrywide to submit the application to the lender.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Countrywide has agreed to refund the £250, and pay Miss H £100 compensation for her 
time and trouble. The sticking point is that Countrywide doesnt think it should pay 8% 
statutory interest on the refund. Thats the only issue Im being asked to decide, and having 
given it careful consideration, I find that the 8% interest should fairly be paid to Miss H.
Theres no dispute the fee was non-refundable, and Countrywide made that known at the 
outset. But whilst I appreciate mortgage broking isnt an exact science, Countrywide has 
accepted a non-refundable fee of £250 from Miss H for an application that, based on her 
very particular circumstances as they stood, had no realistic prospect of succeeding. That 
being the case, the fee was collected in error and must be refunded with interest.
   
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Countrywide Principal Services Limited to:
refund Miss H her application fee of £250;
calculate and pay Miss H interest at 8% simple per annum* on £250, from the date 
the fee was paid up to the eventual settlement date; and
pay Miss H £100 compensation. 
I make no other order or award.
*If Countrywide Principal Services Limited deducts basic rate income tax from the interest 
award, it should then provide Miss H with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman