DRN-2580323
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
What happened
In 2001 Miss R took out TMPP cover to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. It also provided other benefits but Im just dealing 
here with Miss Rs complaint that she was mis-sold PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Miss R disagrees. She told us 
that she didnt know she had PPI. 
In response to our adjudicators view, she also told us that when PPI was arranged she 
already had existing savings and benefits provided by her employer. She doesnt feel that 
Halifaxs advisor took this information adequately into account when recommending PPI and 
so she has paid for cover that she did not essentially need.
And Miss R is also concerned that the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
was not sufficiently highlighted during the sales process. She believes that if that had 
happened, then she wouldnt have taken out PPI  given that she had a condition 
(undiagnosed at the time) which she said was the most likely reason shed be off work and 
so her claim would be excluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Heres why I say this.
I think that Halifax made Miss R aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it 
out. I dont know what was said at the time or how Halifax explained the PPI. Ive taken 
carefully into account what Miss R remembers. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to 
recall exactly what was discussed in a meeting so long ago. This means that what Miss R 
says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look at all 
the available information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be 
impartial.
Looking at the mortgage application form that Miss R completed, theres a separate section 
dealing with the TMPP. It says here: 
We recommend that you consider our TMPP which can cover any planholder in the event of 
accident, sickness, involuntary unemployment, death and a named critical Illness. The plan 
can give you peace of mind if you are unable to work for any unforeseeable reason.
So I think its fair to say that the paperwork Miss R wouldve seen at the time made it clear 
that it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. 
Miss R signed her name in the TMPP section where it says Yes. I would like to take 
advantage of the TMPP as well as signing at the end of her completed mortgage application 
form. 
Taking into account all this information, I think that Miss R wouldve seen at the time that 
taking out the PPI was optional. And I think it was added to her account on her instructions 
after she indicated that she wanted to take it out.
Halifax advised Miss R to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. And although Miss R had sick pay entitlement through work 
and redundancy benefits this doesnt mean that Halifaxs recommendation was unsuitable. 
PPI couldve protected Miss R if she was disabled or too sick to go back to work as well as 
providing cover if Miss R lost her job unexpectedly and found herself out of work. The policy 
couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim  this was significantly longer than shed 
have got full (or any) sick pay through work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any other 
income coming in from work and Miss R couldve made repeated claims. So PPI gave her 
long term protection for her mortgage. 
I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on as everyones circumstances can 
change. The policy provided cover for a lot longer than the amount of savings Miss R has 
mentioned wouldve likely lasted if shed had to use these to pay her monthly outgoings 
when she wasnt able to work. 
The value of shares isnt fixed, which means capital invested can go up and down and may 
not be available to use to make mortgage repayments in the same circumstances as PPI. 
Although Miss R mentioned having some shares, having PPI meant she wasnt at risk of 
being forced to sell any shares  perhaps at a time not of her choosing when she mightnt 
have been able to achieve the price she hoped for. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Miss R if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Although she was eligible for death in service benefit from her employer, PPI paid out in 
different circumstances.
PPI also provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances to life 
cover and critical illness cover  which paid out lump sums in the event of loss of life and 
long term, serious, life changing or life limiting conditions. 
Having PPI wouldve meant Miss R could be sure shed always be able to keep up the 
monthly repayments in order to protect her home. I think that wouldve been an important 
consideration at the time  even if shes now forgotten this. So I think the policy couldve 
been useful to her.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. I've taken carefully into account everything 
Miss R has told me about her health. But having looked carefully at the policy wording, I dont think that the limitation on paying out for an existing health condition is likely to have 
affected Miss R when she signed up for the policy. I havent seen enough to make me think 
that its likely she wouldve found it difficult to make a disability claim just because she was 
seeing a doctor from time to time about a condition that wasnt diagnosed until some 
13 years or so later. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected her decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear to Miss R at the time she bought 
the policy. But she chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to in order to 
supplement the cover she had through work. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. 
But I think Miss R still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped her buying it. And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman