DRN-3703602
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as O has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr P, a director of O, has brought the complaint on Os behalf.
What happened
O held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. 
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 O closed 
its business in March 2020 and didnt reopen until July 2020. It closed again during later 
lockdowns.
O claimed on the policy. 
RSA declined the claim. It said that O hadnt chosen the optional extra cover for business 
interruption due to disease, murder, suicide, vermin and pests. It said that even if O had 
chosen the extension, it still wouldnt have been covered because O hadnt shown that 
Covid-19 was manifest at the premises before Government restrictions came into force. 
Mr P brought Os complaint to our service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Os business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why. As my 
reasoning is different from our investigators, Im issuing a provisional decision in case the 
parties wish to make any further representations in response.
The type of cover O is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy O took out. 
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Os policy is based on an 
interruption to the business of the insured resulting from damage to property by an event 
covered under the property damage section of the policy such as fire or flood. 
There are also various optional extensions to the business interruption cover. One of these 
is Disease, Murder, Suicide, Vermin and Pests. This particular extension covers loss as a 
result of closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises up to the limit shown in the Schedule for any one loss.
The policy says that an extension to cover only applies if a sum insured is shown in the 
Schedule. No sum insured is shown for any of the extensions available for business 
interruption cover, whereas O had taken out various extensions in the property damage part 
of the policy, for example glazing repairs.
As cover was not provided under this part of Os policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the premises, I am 
satisfied RSAs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Os claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for O and Mr P, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
As most of Os complaint has been focussed on showing that there were cases of Covid-19 
at the premises, I should also point out that even if O had taken out this extension of cover, 
the policy would have required the closure or restrictions placed on the business premises to 
have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the 
premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers. 
It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to 
have sustained the disease and been on the premises unless they have been diagnosed 
with Covid-19. 
O has provided evidence to support the fact that a customer developed symptoms of Covid-
19 and was told to isolate. I have no reason to doubt that this was the case. But O hasnt 
provided any evidence of when this took place or that the customer had symptoms whilst at 
the premises. So even if O had taken out the extension of cover, I dont think I would have 
been able to say that its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at Os 
premises before it closed. I dont wish O to go to the trouble of providing further evidence on 
this point because, as explained above, there was no cover in place.
O was understandably disappointed with my provisional decision. It referred me to the 
decision of the Supreme Court in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance 
(UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 and the related judgment in the court at first instance (the 
FCA test case). He also referred me to a report on the FCA test case which said insurers 
must pay small firms for Covid-19 losses. He thought the policy wording had become 
irrelevant in a situation where businesses were forced to close because of the pandemic.
RSA didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the FCA test case the court considered 21 sample insurance policy wordings in the 
context of the significant business interruption losses suffered by businesses as a result of 
Covid-19. The court looked at the interpretation of various clauses but didnt consider all 
policies or all terms. Whether a claim should be paid still depends on the terms of each 
individual policy. 
In this case O hadnt taken out cover for losses resulting from business interruption caused 
by a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the premises. For whatever reason it isnt 
a risk that RSA had agreed to cover. I dont think the effect of the FCA test case is that an 
insurer should be required to cover a risk which could have been covered by an extension to 
a policy when the policyholder hadnt opted to include such an extension in the policy.
I understand this isnt the outcome O was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Os claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman