DRN-1140427
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy Standard Life Assurance Limited continued to deduct charges for life cover 
from her mortgage endowment plan after it was paid up in 2001. 
What happened
Mrs Vs mortgage endowment plan was originally sold by a tied representative of Standard 
Life  New Homes Mortgage Helpline  in 1999. Standard Life was instructed by the tied 
representative to start the plan on 25 June 1999.
Mrs V says that in 2001 when she spoke to Standard Life to cancel her plan, she was told 
she could leave the fund to mature. She says there was no mention of life cover continuing 
and no mention of monthly payments being deducted from the fund. 
Mrs Vs plan was paid up in August 2001 as a result of unpaid premiums. Standard Life says 
it sent a letter to Mrs V at the time explaining what would happen to the plan.
Mrs V said that in 2019 she found an old statement from Standard Life about this plan. So 
she contacted it to see how the plan was doing as the last statement she received was in 
2006. It told her she could find out the value online, but she couldnt do this, so she called 
again. 
When Mrs V was given the value, she was told different things about why the value had 
gone down  that it was due to market valuations and finally, that it was because charges 
had been deducted for live cover. 
Mrs V was unhappy shed been charged for cover she didnt realise she had. Standard Life 
told her it would issue a copy of the letter that was sent to her in 2001 that explained what 
would happen to the plan, but it was unable to as it didnt hold an original copy. On one 
further occasion Mrs V was told her annual statements did confirm the charges for life cover. 
But Standard Life identified this was incorrect as payments towards Mrs Vs plan had 
stopped. 
As a result, Standard Life offered £100.00 for the trouble and upset caused due to the 
incorrect information it provided to Mrs V. But it didnt uphold her complaint about the life 
cover deductions. It said the letter in 2001 confirmed that life cover would continue, and 
charges deducted until the plan had no value. It also said this was confirmed in the policy 
provisions.
Our investigator concluded Mrs V couldve reasonably been aware of the continuation of life 
cover and the way the premiums would be deducted as a result of the information provided 
in 1999 and 2001. So, she didnt think Standard Life needed to do anything further.
Mrs V disagreed for a number of reasons. She said:
She was told by Standard Life she could leave her plan to mature and that she was 
never once told monthly deductions for life cover would be made. If shed known 
otherwise, she wouldnt have taken out alternative life cover with Aviva.When she contacted Standard Life in earlier years no alarm bells rang as each time 
she was told the value had increased.
Had she received a letter containing the information about the plan (as she has done 
more recently), then she wouldve known about the fees. The statements she 
received over the years gave no indication of this.
It is now a legal requirement to issue a fees statement, which reinforces her 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
When Mrs Vs complaint was first brought to this service there were questions about whether 
her complaint was made too late. This is because the events being complained about 
occurred more than six years ago. Although Standard Life acknowledged the complaint was 
made out of time, it gave its consent for this service to look into it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons. I explain why below.
Standard Life says it wrote to Mrs V in 2001  its explained this wouldve happened 
automatically given the unpaid premiums. But given the time thats passed, its only provided 
a regenerated letter of what it says the letter wouldve looked like. This says: we wrote to 
you recently about your plan. As we havent received the outstanding amount, weve made 
your plan paid-up from 25 August 2001. This means your existing benefits will remain 
invested and well continue to deduct charges. Your life cover will stop when the value is 
used up by the charges.
I cant be sure thats what Mrs V wouldve received. But I do think its more likely than not 
that she wouldve received something about her plan being paid up  after all, it was in 
Standard Lifes interest to say how Mrs V could pay money into the plan again.
In any event, the policy terms and conditions from when the plan was originally taken out 
explain that if the policy is altered to paid-up under policy provision 6, we will continue to 
cancel units on every charge date to cover the charges due under policy provisions 10 and 
11, until there are no units left. The policy will then end. Provisions 10 and 11 are charges 
for life cover and critical illness and service charges. 
Ive also considered the statements. Standard Life confirmed annual statements had been 
sent to Mrs V between 2007 and 2018  and Ive seen copies of these, addressed correctly. 
Mrs V pointed out that the notes Standard Life sent to her say these were issued manually 
from 2007 which could explain why she didnt get them. But Standard Life has clarified that 
its only the valuation which was entered manually, as the plan was paid-up. The statements 
are then issued automatically. That makes sense, given that Mrs Vs valuation also had to be 
manually worked out when she called in 2019. It follows that I think its more likely than not 
the statements were sent to Mrs V.
Having reviewed the statements I am mindful that they dont show the deductions for life 
cover. Mrs V feels that as it is now a legal requirement to issue a fees statement, this backs 
up her complaint. But it would be unfair to hold any business to a standard that didnt apply 
to it at the time. 
What I cant ignore however is that the statements clearly show Amount wed pay on death 
£46,611.00. So even in the absence of any charges or deductions the statements show 
there is life cover. And naturally this life cover would have come at a cost.  So, taking everything into account  the likelihood that a letter wouldve been sent when the 
plan was paid up, the terms and conditions, and the statements  I think the information was 
there that life cover would continue and Mrs V would be charged for that. In saying this, I 
believe Mrs V that she didnt recognise this was happening. Thats understandable given 
when the plan was originally taken out and how long it was due to run for. But I dont think it 
would be fair to blame Standard Life for that when the information was there. And while I 
appreciate Mrs Vs feelings that its taken her money, ultimately there has always been a 
significant life cover benefit which Standard Life would be accountable for. So I dont agree 
she paid something for nothing here. 
In conclusion I wont be asking Standard Life to do anything further. I find the offer made by 
Standard Life of £100.00 for the incorrect information given to Mrs V about her plan to be fair 
and reasonable. Its now up to Mrs V to decide what to do with her plan. She may wish to 
seek independent financial advice to consider her options.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mrs V's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman