DRN-3206590
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in May 1995 
to go with a monthly premium secured personal loan. Mr S says Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) mis-sold him PPI.
 
What happened?
On 11 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision explaining why it was my intention not 
to uphold this complaint. I said that I thought Nationwide had done enough make Mr S aware 
that he didnt have to take out the PPI. I also considered that Mr S was given enough 
information to make an informed choice about taking out the cover. However, having  
considered the differing accounts Id been given about Mr Ss medical condition, I said that 
Mr S and his representative should be given an opportunity to provide further information. I 
set out an extract from my provisional decision below:
When he started his complaint Mr S told Nationwide that he had diabetes but he couldnt 
recall when it had been first diagnosed. His representative also told Nationwide that the 
diabetes hadnt caused Mr S to take any time off work, had no impact on his daily life, wasnt 
degenerative and hadnt led to other health problems. After Mr Ss complaint came to us and 
our adjudicator made a finding that the PPI hadnt been mis-sold, Mr Ss representative gave 
us new information about Mr Ss medical condition. This included that Mr S had been 
diagnosed with an underlying condition related to his diabetes, that hed had to undergo 
major surgery and had also been medically retired because of it. The representative also told 
us that Mr Ss diabetes was first diagnosed in the 1970s.
Given these differing accounts of Mr Ss medical condition and history, I asked one of our 
adjudicators to contact Mr Ss representative to request further information. Unfortunately, 
despite setting a deadline for its receipt, that information and evidence has not been 
provided. I have however decided that, given the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
Mr S and his representative should be offered a further opportunity provide that information. 
This should include when Mr S was diagnosed with diabetes, how it is being treated and 
how, if at all, it has affected his health and ability to work since that diagnosis. But based on 
what Ive seen so far, its currently my intention not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Overall, I currently consider that Mr S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ss representative has also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might also apply in Mr Ss particular case. 
But they dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.
It follows that, for the reasons Ive set out above I dont currently intend to uphold this 
complaint.
Mr S and Nationwide both acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but had no 
further information or evidence to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Given that neither party has responded to my provisional decision with any further 
information or evidence, I wont be changing my provisional findings. And as Ive already 
set out my full reasons for not upholding Mr Ss complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and so Nationwide Building 
Society doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman