DRN-4332541
The complaint
Mr W complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim he made on a personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint to is well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a summary 
of what I think are the main events.
Mr W is insured under a personal income protection insurance policy, which he took out in 
2017 to cover his occupation as a self-employed contractor. In July 2019, Mr W decided to 
take a break from his contract at the time, as hed been experiencing some symptoms of 
work-related stress and anxiety. He wanted some time to recover.
However, Mr Ws symptoms didnt get better. In February 2020, he was diagnosed with 
anxiety and depression. He was prescribed anti-depressants and referred for counselling. In 
March 2020, Mr W made an incapacity claim on the policy. 
Having investigated the claim, L&G turned it down. As Mr W hadnt been working at the time 
he made the claim, it hadnt assessed the claim in line with the own occupation policy 
definition of incapacity. Instead, it had assessed the claim in line with the activities of daily 
living definition of incapacity. L&G didnt think that Mr W had met the policy definition of 
incapacity and so it declined to pay his claim.
Mr W complained to us about L&Gs decision to turn down his claim. I issued a final decision 
on Mr Ws complaint in March 2022, which explained why I felt it had been fair for L&G to 
turn down the claim. Briefly, I didnt find that Mr W had provided medical evidence to show 
hed been incapacitated in July 2019, or that he met the definition of incapacity in 2020.
Subsequently, Mr W obtained further evidence from his GP practice which he asked L&G to 
consider. This consisted of a letter, from a GP, dated 14 June 2022, which said that Mr W 
had consulted at the surgery in June 2019, complaining of symptoms of tiredness and low 
energy and that the symptoms had been queried as being post-viral fatigue. The GP noted 
that these symptoms were also associated with depression, which seemed more likely due 
to Mr Ws personal circumstances. 
And Mr W also sent L&G a backdated fit note, dated 7 December 2022. The fit note covered 
the period 11 June 2019 until 4 February 2020. The note stated that Mr W was not fit for 
work due to anxiety with depression.
L&G considered the new medical evidence but maintained its decision to decline the claim. It 
didnt think the new information changed the fact that Mr W hadnt been signed-off as unfit to 
work until February 2020.
Unhappy with L&Gs further decline of his claim, Mr W asked us to look into a further 
complaint. He considered that the new medical evidence showed he had become 
incapacitated while he was actively working. And therefore, he considered that L&G should 
accept and pay his claim under the own occupation contractual definition of incapacity.
Our investigator explained that he could only assess whether he felt L&G had appropriately 
considered the new medical evidence. And he was persuaded that it had. He noted that the 
GPs letter indicated that Mr W had had an appointment in June 2019, when hed been 
experiencing symptoms which were more likely to have been down to depression, rather 
than post-viral fatigue. But he didnt think the letter showed that Mr W was experiencing such 
severe symptoms that hed been incapacitated in line with the policy definition. The 
investigator accepted that Mr W had retrospectively been issued with a backdated sick-note, 
covering the period June 2019 until February 2020. But he noted that Mr W hadnt been 
signed-off work in either June 2019, or at a later appointment in December 2019 either. He 
considered that the contemporaneous medical notes from the time of those appointments 
were more reliable evidence that retrospective medical evidence.
On that basis, the investigator felt it had been fair for L&G to turn down the claim again.
Mr W disagreed and he sent us a further letter from a third GP, dated 27 July 2023, in 
support of his claim, along with supporting evidence from his financial adviser. The GP said 
that Mr Ws records clearly showed he was suffering from migraines and fatigue which made 
it difficult for him to focus. The GP said that Mr Ws symptoms would have affected his ability 
to work and the rationale in his decision-making.
The investigator asked L&G for its comments on the GPs further evidence. L&G concluded 
that the evidence wasnt compatible with the medical records from the relevant time. There 
was no reference to Mr W having been referred for specialist support or receiving on-going 
treatment in July or December 2019. Therefore, it maintained its decision.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and still didnt think it had been unfair for L&G to 
rely on evidence from across the whole period to conclude that Mr W hadnt shown he met 
the policy definition of incapacity.
Mr W disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator:
He has provided sufficient medical evidence to show that he wasnt fit to work from 
July 2019 onwards, at which point hed still been working. It wasnt fair for L&G to 
continue to decline the claim. And there wasnt a policy exclusion for mental illness;
He felt he had no choice but to take legal action and he considered that our services 
involvement had delayed legal action;
His financial adviser felt L&G were a disgrace and referred to errors on Mr Ws claim 
form which it hadnt picked-up upon review;
He considered that our service had misunderstood the complaint and hadnt 
appropriately engaged with employment-related contractual disputes or compassion. 
He felt it was easier for us to decide not to uphold his complaint to avoid ramifications 
from a large company like L&G;
He had visited his GP a number of times and it had been based on his symptoms in 
February 2020 that he GP had diagnosed him with anxiety and depression. L&G 
didnt offer any support, such as counselling and it had only offered a review seven 
months after he made the claim, which was traumatic for him.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to 
turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will consider whether L&G has fairly assessed 
the new medical evidence Mr W has provided to it since I issued my final decision in March 
2022; and whether I think its decision to maintain the decline of the claim is fair and 
reasonable.  I wont be commenting on any issues I decided previously. Id also like to 
reassure Mr W that although Ive summarised his complaint and the detailed 
communications hes made; I have read and considered all of his submissions in detail. My 
findings though will be focused on what I think are the key issues. Im confident that I have 
fully understood the issues Mr W has complained about and the terms of the insurance 
contract he held with L&G. I was sorry to hear about Mr Ws illness; the impact on him and 
his family and I was pleased to read that hes now making a recovery.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt unreasonably reject a claim. Accordingly, Ive taken into account these 
rules, amongst other relevant considerations, such as the policy terms and the available 
medical evidence, when deciding whether I think L&G has treated Mr W fairly.
Mr W made an incapacity claim on the policy. Its a general principle of insurance that its for 
a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show, on balance, that they have a valid claim 
on their policy. As such, it was Mr Ws responsibility to provide L&G with sufficient evidence 
to show that he was incapacitated in line with relevant policy definition of incapacity. The first 
definition is for a policyholders own occupation and says:
Incapacity definition: Own occupation
If you are in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the time of incapacity we will 
consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claim as set out in the section 
headed Assessing your claim and are satisfied that you have no capacity for working in 
your own occupation, on any basis, as a direct result of your injury or illness.
If L&G considers that a policyholder isnt in gainful employment or self-employment at the 
time of the incapacity, then the following definition will apply:
Incapacity definition: Activities of Daily Living
If you are a houseperson at the time of incapacity we will consider you to be incapacitated 
once we have assessed your claim as set out in the section headed Assessing your claim 
and are satisfied that you are unable to undertake at least three of the tasks from the 
activities listed below for a sustained period and as a direct result of your incapacity.
Mr W considers that while he didnt receive a formal diagnosis of anxiety and depression 
until February 2020 - and he didnt make a claim until the following month  the new medical 
evidence shows he was incapacitated from July 2019 onwards.  At this point, hed been 
actively working and therefore, hed been in gainful employment. L&G assessed the new 
medical evidence, but it wasnt persuaded that it showed that Mr W had been incapacitated 
since July 2019. So Ive carefully considered the new medical evidence to decide whether I 
think this was a fair conclusion for L&G to reach. I must make it clear that Im not a medical 
expert, so my decision has necessarily been based on an assessment of the evidence 
provided and the comments of L&Gs Chief Medical Officer.
The first piece of new evidence is a letter from a GP at Mr Ws GP practice, dated 14 June 
2022. This says:I am writing to confirm that (Mr W) has been attending since the 10th December 2019 with 
symptoms of anxiety. He was diagnosed on the 5th February 2020 with anxiety and 
depression, and commenced on anti-depressants. I do note however that Mr W had 
consulted on 11 June 2019 complaining of symptoms of being tired all the time and low 
energy levels, at the time he was queried as suffering from ?post viral fatigue, but these 
symptoms are also associated with depression, which seems more likely due to his current 
work stress, personal family issues and dealing with the emotions and support needed for ( a 
terminally ill relative) who died of cancer later that year.
The GP notes which were sent to L&G only date back to July 2019  so theres no evidence 
of an appointment which took place in June 2019. It seems clear though that Mr W did see a 
GP at that point with symptoms of tiredness and low-energy. The GP has linked those 
symptoms to Mr Ws subsequent diagnosis with depression and anxiety. But I dont think it 
was unreasonable for L&G to conclude that this letter didnt show that Mr Ws symptoms 
were severe enough to mean he was incapacitated in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. And its clear that Mr W wasnt signed-off work at that time.
Ive considered the retrospective fit note Mr Ws GP has completed too. This is dated 
December 2022 and says that Mr W was unfit to work between 11 June 2019 and 4 
February 2020. Im mindful that this is medical evidence which shows that upon a backdated 
review, a GP concluded that Mr W hadnt been fit to work during this period. However, 
theres no detailed explanation as to how or why Mr Ws symptoms would have prevented 
him from working during this time.
And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for L&G to find the contemporaneous medical 
notes spanning July 2019 until May 2020 to be more persuasive evidence of Mr Ws health 
at the time. Its clear that Mr W did discuss suffering some anxiety and depression over a 
period of a few months with his GP in December 2019. However, the GP didnt suggest any 
onward referral for counselling or psychiatric treatment at that time and neither did they 
prescribe any form of treatment. Its clear too that the GP didnt sign Mr W off at this point 
either. Id add that it isnt clear whether the fit note was completed by a doctor whod been 
responsible for Mr Ws care during this period, or that they were familiar with Mr Ws health 
in July 2019. As such then, I dont think L&G acted unfairly when it placed more weight upon 
the contemporaneous GP notes recording what was discussed at the time of Mr Ws 
appointments, than a fit note issued over two and a half years after Mr W was ultimately 
signed-off as unfit to work.
A third GP provided another letter, dated 27 July 2023, which stated:
Mental health affects a patients physical health as well as emotionally. In Mr Ws case, it 
clearly shows from the records he was suffering from fatigue and migraines which made it 
difficult for him to focus. His symptoms would have affected his ability to work and the 
rationale in his decision making.
The investigator asked L&G for its comments. It said:
I can confirm our position remains unchanged. While we note that (the GP) has referenced 
fatigue and migraines as symptoms that would have affected his ability to work in 2019, 
contemporaneous evidence from around the period in question is not compatible with this 
assertion. Whilst we do not have an entry available from June 2019, entries available to us 
from July and December 2019 make no reference to on-going treatment or referral to 
specialist support. We would expect this to be the case if mental illness of sufficient severity 
to make him unable to work was diagnosed in the preceding months. We also note 
references to cycling (of considerable distance) in 2019 which would suggest that his fatigue 
and inability to focus were not of a level that rendered him incapacitated.It is important to note that our Chief Medical Officer also wrote to (the GP who issued the 
June 2022 letter) in March 2023 with a detailed explanation of the reasons why they were of 
the view that Mr Ws absence, and the retrospective medical certificate provided in relation 
to it, did not relate to mental illness of sufficient severity to preclude him from working in his 
own occupation on any basisthe GP has not challenged any of these points in the letter 
they were asked to provide by the claimant.
As we do not agree there is any credible evidence of incapacity at the time the customer was 
working, we remain of the view that the claim has been correctly assessed against the 
activities of daily living definition outlined in his policy from the point he was certified unfit 
for work by his doctor in February 2020.
Like the investigator, Ive weighed-up the evidence from across the whole period  from the 
original GP records from July 2019 onwards and up to and including the letter of 27 July 
2023. I dont doubt that Mr W was suffering from symptoms of migraine and fatigue in June 
2019. But I dont think theres sufficient medical evidence which shows that Mr Ws 
symptoms were severe enough, in June or July 2019, to mean he was medically 
incapacitated from carrying out his role on any basis. Again, he wasnt signed-off at this point 
and he wasnt prescribed medication or referred for treatment. So I cant fairly find that it was 
unreasonable for L&G to conclude that this letter wasnt enough evidence to show Mr W was 
incapacitated in July 2019 either.
I do understand that Mr W chose to take a break from work in July 2019 to try and recover. 
Ive thought carefully about the explanation he and his financial adviser have given to explain 
why he took a break, rather than being signed-off work and I do sympathise with Mr Ws 
position. But I think L&G is reasonably entitled to be satisfied that a policyholder meets the 
policy terms before it agrees to accept and settle a claim. And in this case, I dont think its 
acted unfairly by concluding that the new medical evidence isnt enough to demonstrate that 
Mr W was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. Therefore, it follows that I dont find it 
was unfair or unreasonable for L&G to turn down Mr Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given enough above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman