DRN-3636088
The complaint
Mr L complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined his claim on his home 
emergency insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
Mr L noticed an intermittent leak on his toilet and made a claim on his home emergency 
insurance policy.
Aviva organised for its engineer to attend to look at the leak. The engineer looked at the pipe 
connections and could not see anything obvious. The engineer believed a crack in the toilet 
pan was where the water was leaking from. The engineer explained to Mr L that a cracked 
pan was not covered by his policy.
After speaking to a family friend Mr L contacted Aviva again and said he disagreed with its 
engineers findings. He said Avivas engineer should have shown him the crack in the toilet 
pan. He said the issue was with the toilet seal and the repair should be covered under the 
terms of the policy.
Avivas engineer returned to look again at the leak on the toilet. He removed the toilet from 
the wall to look at it. Avivas engineer maintained there was no issue with the toilet seals and 
said the toilet pan was cracked.
Mr L contacted Aviva again to escalate his complaint. He said no crack was found in the 
toilet pan. When asked by Aviva he confirmed there was no leak present on the toilet at the 
current time but there was an issue with the flushing part of the toilet.
Aviva did not uphold his complaint. But it said if Mr L submitted a report from his own 
plumber that diagnosed something different than a cracked toilet pan, then it would 
investigate his complaint further.
As Mr L was not happy with Aviva, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said there was 
no evidence to say there wasnt a crack in the toilet pan. They said Mr L had not provided 
any evidence of an issue with the flushing part of the toilet or any other fault. They did not 
think Aviva needed to take any further action.
As Mr L is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the report from the Aviva plumbing engineer when it attended on 13 August 2021 
after the claim was initially made. The report says that all pipes to the toilet were dry, 
including the water feed and pan connector. The engineer believed the leak was from the 
pan itself that was cracked. 
I checked the policy and it says:
What isnt Covered?
e) replacement of sanitary wear (e.g. basins and toilet bowls),
Therefore I agree Aviva correctly excluded this claim under the terms of the policy.
Mr L contacted Aviva again on 17 August 2021 and said the toilet was not cracked and it 
was the seals that were leaking. Aviva sent an engineer back the same day to have another 
look at the toilet. The engineer removed the toilet and again believed the leak was coming 
from a crack. The toilet was refit and resealed.
Aviva maintained its diagnosis that there was a crack in the toilet pan and no repair was 
completed to it as it confirmed it was not covered by the policy.
When Mr L made his complaint to Aviva, he confirmed that the toilet was no longer leaking 
but added that there was now an issue with the flushing mechanism. Aviva offered to send 
out a plumbing engineer, but this was refused by Mr L.
Aviva maintained its decision to reject Mr Ls claim but offered to look at it again if he 
provided some evidence that its diagnosis was incorrect, such as a report from his own 
plumber. 
Mr L got his own plumber to replace the toilet and he submitted images of the removed toilet. 
No report or diagnosis from Mr Ls plumber was submitted that detailed what they had found 
to be the cause of the leak, or that the cause of the leak was not a crack in the toilet pan.
I have reviewed the images of the removed toilet and although I cannot see a visible crack 
on the images provided, there are no images of the toilet pan where the crack was said to 
be.  
Mr L has not provided any evidence to confirm a misdiagnosis by Aviva or evidence of any 
other issues with the toilet, such as the flushing mechanism. 
I wouldn't expect Aviva to pay for an undiagnosed issue. Therefore I do not uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and do not require Aviva to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman