DRN-3448113
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt help recover money she lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs M came across an online trading broker called RTC Finance when she 
was looking to invest money. She registered her interest and was subsequently contacted by 
a representative who sold her an investment opportunity. 
Mrs M says she was given a guaranteed deposit account and any funds she paid into her 
trading account were fully protected. She was assigned an account manager who told her 
which trades to execute. Mrs M says she was persuaded to invest more money after seeing 
the profits that were supposedly being made. 
The following transactions were made on Mrs Ms Lloyds debit card:
Date (as per bank 
statement)Merchant Amount
30 May 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
2 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
5 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £3,000
6 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
8 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,200
12 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £10,000
12 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £10,000
12 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £10,000
13 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £10,000 
13 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £10,000
13 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £10,000
15 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £8,000
15 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £10,000
15 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £11,000
15 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £11,000
16 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £2,000
16 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £10,000
16 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £20,000
20 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £10,000
20 June 2017 rtcfinance.com £15,000
22 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £8,000
22 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £8,000
22 June 2017 RTC FINANCE £9,000
23 June 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £3,000
11 July 2017 RTC FINANCE £20,000
14 July 2017 RTC FINANCE £15,000
20 July 2017 RTC FINANCE £4,000
21 July 2017 RTC FINANCE £1,000
25 July 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
31 July 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
3 August 2017 RTC FINANCE £2,000
7 August 2017 RTC FINANCE £3,800 (credit)
8 August 2017 RTC FINANCE.COM £7,500
17 August 2017 RTC FINANCE £4,500
18 August 2017 RTC FINANCE £4,500
31 August 2017 RTC FINANCE £3,000
4 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £9,000
8 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £2,000
14 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £3,000 (refunded following 
successful chargeback)
20 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £3,500 (refunded following 
successful chargeback)
27 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £7,000 (refunded following 
successful chargeback)
10 October 2017 RTC FINANCE £4,000 (refunded following 
successful chargeback)
Total payments £308,200
Less credit £3,800
Less chargeback £17,500
Total loss £286,900
To fund some of these payments, Mrs M transferred money from her limited companys bank 
account. Shes explained the money wasnt a loan; it was netted against the dividends 
declared by the business, and she still had to pay personal tax on the amounts advanced.
Mrs M says she was able to make one ad-hoc withdrawal from her trading account. But her 
request was declined every other time; her account manager had to get approval from the 
accounts department each time and this was declined on grounds of her not meeting the 
conditions of the guaranteed deposit account. 
Towards the end of 2017, when repeated requests for withdrawals were declined and further 
research into RTC Finance led to her discovering that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) had published a warning about it, Mrs M realised she had been scammed. She 
initially contacted a law firm for assistance and then in April 2018, with the help of a claims 
management company, she reported the matter to Lloyds.
Lloyds requested further information from Mrs M, and in August 2018 it said it was unable to 
present a chargeback. Mrs M complained to Lloyds and in February 2019 it agreed to 
present a chargeback for the last four disputed payments. It said it was too late for the earlier 
payments. Lloyds also paid £250 compensation for poor customer service. The chargeback 
wasnt defended and £17,500 was returned to Mrs M. 
Unhappy with Lloyds not acting sooner, Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator ultimately concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in declining the initial 
chargeback request. But he thought that it ought to have intervened and asked suitably 
probing questions when Mrs M authorised the first payment of £10,000 (sixth overall) in June 
2017 as it was unusual and out of character for her. The investigator acknowledged that 
Lloyds did block the payment at the time. But it was his view that it didnt ask sufficient questions and if it had, the scam would have been unravelled. The investigator 
recommended Lloyds to refund all the transactions from and including the sixth payment 
along with interest, less any successful chargeback claims, up to our award limit.  
I issued my provisional decision on this case in April 2022. I said that I planned to uphold this 
complaint but intended to make a different award. I set out the following reasons:
Im aware that RTC Finance was regulated in another jurisdiction at the time of 
Mrs Ms disputed payments. Generally, businesses that submit themselves to 
regulatory oversight  even if it is in another jurisdiction  tend to be legitimate. But in 
this case, I note the FCA published a warning in October 2017 that RTC Finance was 
using the details of a genuine FCA-regulated firm when offering products and 
services. Ive seen the email correspondence between Mrs M and her account 
manager, and I can see that he was using the contact details of the genuine FCA-
regulated firm. I also note that in January 2018, RTC Finances regulator revoked its 
authorisation. 
While these events happened after Mrs M had made all the payments, they help 
build an overall picture of RTC Finances operations. It is my judgement that it wasnt 
a legitimate trader; it was likely operating illegally with dishonest intentions.
While I think that RTC Finance was likely operating a scam, the chargeback scheme 
rules dont automatically entitle Mrs M to a refund based on these circumstances. 
The card scheme operator relevant here is Visa. As the investigator explained, Visas 
chargeback rules didnt cover investment trading at the time of Mrs Ms payments. 
This means that Lloyds could only have successfully presented a chargeback claim if 
RTC Finance had promised  in writing  Mrs M guaranteed returns or profits which 
werent received. I havent seen evidence of this, so I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly 
by not pursuing a chargeback claim when she first requested a chargeback.
Mrs M submits that she was able to recover some of the payments when Lloyds later 
presented a chargeback after she complained in 2019. She says this suggests that 
she would have been able to recover all the payments if Lloyds had presented a 
chargeback in 2018 when all the transactions were within the chargeback timescales. 
I understand the point Mrs M is making, but its important to note that Visa requires 
very specific evidence for it to deem a chargeback valid. My role is not to second-
guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the card 
issuer acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder. Here, it doesnt appear as though Mrs M was 
in possession of the required evidence when she contacted Lloyds in 2018. Because 
of this, I cant fairly say that Lloyds acted unreasonably in not presenting a 
chargeback at the time. 
The fact that Lloyds decided to present a chargeback when Mrs M complained in 
2019, even though the required evidence was still unavailable, was a matter for its 
discretion. It wasnt obligated to present a chargeback at the time. And Mrs Ms funds 
were returned because the merchant (RTC Finance) didnt respond to the 
chargeback attempt, not because Visa ruled in her favour. In other words, Visa didnt 
make a ruling as the chargeback didnt progress to the arbitration stage. Theres no 
guarantee that RTC Finance would not have responded in 2018 as well had Lloyds 
exercised its discretion and presented a chargeback at that time.   The next question Ive considered is whether Lloyds ought to have intervened before 
allowing any of the disputed payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might 
be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mrs M using her legitimate security 
credentials. I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which 
Mrs M is liable unless theres evidence that Lloyds could and should reasonably have 
done more to protect her and this would have made a difference to her decision-
making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Lloyds 
ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; have systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were at 
risk of fraud; and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declining them altogether, to protect its customer from possible 
financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds has argued that the investigator appears to make reference to a British 
Standards Institution (BSI) code in his view, which it says wasnt launched until 
November 2017  after Mrs M had made all the payments. Although the investigator 
didnt specifically cite the BSI code, I consider that it simply codified principles  for 
protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  that 
should have already been good industry practice. 
As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper 
Banks Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated 
watch-list of types of scams and potential scammers; and to regularly share timely 
and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police 
etc.
While the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be 
updated, its not unreasonable to expect an international bank, like Lloyds, to update 
those lists, and communicate with staff, within a month of a warning being published 
by the FCA or the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). 
In my judgement, such alerts should automatically trigger the banks fraud prevention 
systems and lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as 
making enquiries of the customer about the payment or giving a scam warning.
Here, there were no regulator warnings in place about RTC Finance when Mrs M 
made the payments. The FCAs warning was published on 17 October 2017. In the 
circumstances, I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have picked up payments to RTC 
Finance as being suspicious based on the merchant name alone. But this isnt the end of the matter. Ive considered the operation of Mrs Ms account 
in the months leading up to the disputed payments. This is to determine whether the 
transactions were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think Lloyds ought to have 
intervened. 
Like our investigator, I dont consider the first five payments were particularly unusual 
or suspicious such that they ought to have triggered Lloydss fraud detection 
systems. But the sixth payment of £10,000 was substantially higher than other 
transactions on Mrs Ms account. The proximity and the substantial increase in the 
value of this payment ought to have triggered Lloydss systems. And the available 
evidence shows that it did. So, Ive considered whether it properly questioned Mrs M 
before processing this payment. 
Lloyds has been unable to provide a call recording of the specific intervention call 
where Mrs M confirms making the £10,000 payment. But contemporaneous system 
notes indicate that the payment was confirmed as genuine. Lloyds submits that the 
primary goal for its intervention was to confirm the payment had been authorised by 
Mrs M. And as she confirmed the payment was genuine, it duly executed her 
instruction and processed the payment. It appears that Lloyds was merely checking 
whether it was actually Mrs M who was carrying out these transactions. But, as Ive 
mentioned above, its responsibility goes further than simply checking that a payment 
is authorised. 
Had Lloyds carried out its due diligence and duties by asking suitably probing 
questions, Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs M would have explained what she was 
doing. And while I accept that it didnt have a duty to protect her from a poor 
investment choice, or give investment advice, Lloyds could have provided information 
about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that 
they are dealing with a legitimate merchant  such as checking that the merchant 
was registered or licensed with the Gambling Commission (which would have been a 
requirement at the time of the payments). 
While it is not up to our service to dictate what questions a bank should ask, Lloyds 
could have, for example, asked how Mrs M had been contacted, whether she had 
parted with personal details in order to open a trading account, whether she was 
promised guaranteed returns, whether the investment opportunity was linked to a 
prominent individual or advertised on social media, etc. These are all typical features 
of investment scams  and form part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a 
consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam. 
Although theres no reason to doubt that Mrs M would have explained what she was 
doing, I accept it is possible that she might not have revealed enough information to 
lead Lloyds to understand whether she was at risk of financial harm from this 
particular type of fraud (or any type for that matter). I cant know for certain what 
would have happened. However, I reach my conclusions not based on mere 
possibilities, but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the 
circumstances. And on balance, Im satisfied that Mrs M would have likely shared 
information which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam, as she had been 
given no reason to think she had to hide this information from her bank, and neither 
had she been coached to tell them something different.
Lloyds could have also explained its own customers experiences with unregulated 
and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances and trading accounts could be 
manipulated. After all, at that time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very 
high risks associated with binary options and contracts for difference (CFDs), 
including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the FCAs 
consultation paper of December 2016; the Gambling Commissions scam warning of 
December 2016; and so forth).
Theres no evidence that Lloyds provided Mrs M with any meaningful warnings or 
gave her other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments she was making.  
Had it done so, Im satisfied that she would have looked into the investment 
opportunity further and discovered more information about this type of investment, 
how high-risk it was and whether RTC Finance was licensed or regulated in the UK. 
She could have discovered that it wasnt. 
Indeed, its likely that Mrs M would have come across the various regulatory 
warnings about unregulated investment scams that Ive mentioned above, as well as 
reports in the public domain about RTC Finance operating a scam. This hearsay is 
not in itself sufficient evidence of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory facts, it 
may fairly and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an 
overall picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others. This 
would have been enough to give Mrs M second thoughts such that she wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the first £10,000-payment on 12 June 2017, or the subsequent 
payments. 
Lloyds submits that when it blocked a subsequent payment to RTC Finance in July 
2017, it did ask Mrs M what the payment was for and she said stocks. Lloyds argues 
that buying stocks is a legitimate and established investment vehicle and so its 
unlikely this would have given it cause for concern. While I acknowledge what Lloyds 
has said about investing in stocks, as Ive mentioned, the bank did have a duty to 
protect its customers from possible harm from financial fraud. It is clear that Lloyds 
was concerned about the payments to RTC Finance as multiple transactions 
triggered its systems. Given the frequency and amounts involved, in my view, Lloyds 
ought to have properly questioned Mrs M along the lines Ive described above  and 
provided a scam warning.
Im currently minded, therefore, to find that Lloyds ought to have suitably intervened 
on the sixth payment to RTC Finance (posted on 12 June 2017) and had it done so, 
Mrs M wouldnt have incurred further losses. The total of payments made from this 
payment onwards is £285,500. Mrs M also received a credit of £3,800 directly from 
RTC Finance. Its only fair that this amount, along with the £17,500 that was returned 
to her following a chargeback, is deducted from the loss that Lloyds needs to 
reimburse. This means that the loss I intend to hold Lloyds liable for is £263,700.
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mrs M is partly to blame for what happened. 
And I think that she is. Shes told us that her account manager guaranteed full 
protection of any monies she deposited into her trading account. She says the 
investment opportunity was presented to her as one where she could only make 
profits, not losses. Im not aware of any legitimate investment that offers guaranteed 
profits. The offer here was simply too good to be true. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mrs M carried out research into the investment, the trader, or the investment 
type to reassure herself that the opportunity as presented was genuine. Im aware 
that there were several negative reviews on public forums in May 2017 about RT 
Finance, including scam warnings from other users. This anecdotal evidence ought 
to have led Mrs M to question whether she was dealing with a legitimate merchant 
offering a legitimate opportunity.I also note that Mrs M has forwarded a Welcome email dated 26 May 2017 from her 
account manager, thanking her for choosing RTC Finance. Underneath the senders 
email signature is a disclaimer. It states,  Trading CFDs and other financial 
derivatives is highly speculative, carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable 
for all traders. You may sustain a loss of some of all of your capital. Therefore, you 
should not speculate with capital that you cannot afford to lose I consider that this 
disclaimer, also included in other emails, ought to have given Mrs M cause to 
question the guaranteed capital protection shed been promised before she parted 
with significant sums of money.
Having carefully considered the overall circumstances surrounding this complaint, Im 
minded to conclude that it would be fair to reduce compensation by 50%.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision, but Lloyds didnt. In summary, it says:
Although it agrees with some of the points, Lloyds thinks Ive misunderstood 
important parts of the banks response and have therefore arrived at an 
unreasonable conclusion. It has referred me back to its previous substantive 
submission in addition to further comments which are noted below.
Lloyds doesnt consider it reasonable for the bank to have asked Mrs M detailed 
questions about the transactions. It claims that even if it had, its unlikely she would 
have shared information that would have prompted a warning to be given. Lloyds 
also says its very unlikely that Mrs M would have acted differently even if it had 
warned her.
It doesnt accept that it failed to meet principles that were in place at the relevant 
time. Lloyds says my provisional decision could be taken to import principles adopted 
in another context (Authorised Push Payment or APP scams). It says I should be 
cautious of any reference in my decision which could be seen to expand settled 
principles by the back door and if necessary, the bank would consider strongly 
challenging any reference.
Lloyds says that If Im not minded to accept what it has said, for the proposed 50% 
reduction to have any real impact for the bank the reduction must be applied to the 
maximum amount which the Financial Ombudsman Service is permitted to award. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs M and Lloyds for their comments. I didnt have sight of Lloydss comprehensive 
submission from earlier this year until after it responded to my provisional decision. 
Nevertheless, Ive now had the opportunity to read and carefully consider it in conjunction 
with the banks most recent response.  
Having done so, my findings remain unchanged. I dont intend responding to each and every 
point that Lloyds has raised. Ill focus on what I consider to be any new/main points, as well 
as adding to any reasoning Ive set out previously where I consider it necessary. Lloyds has reiterated that its focus was on addressing whether the payment was authorised. 
But Ive already explained in my provisional decision why a banks responsibility goes further 
than simply checking that a payment is authorised. 
It seems to me that Lloyds has inferred from the investigators view and from my provisional 
decision that in considering this case weve relied on a banks obligations under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and APP scams in general. I want to make it 
absolutely clear that the CRM Code has had no bearing on my decision-making on this case. 
Im well aware of the principles incorporated into the CRM Code (effective warnings, 
reasonable basis for belief, gross negligence, etc.) and the reason I havent made any 
reference to them is because they dont apply to this case.
With regards to APP scams, theres a fundamental difference between these scams and the 
type of scam that Mrs M fell victim to. APP scams relate to push payments such as 
online/telephone/mobile banking or in-branch payments, whereas Mrs Ms payments were 
made using her debit card which are considered pull payments. I would just add that the 
features of a sophisticated investment scam, like the one Mrs M fell victim to, are broadly 
similar irrespective of the payment method used. Nevertheless, Id like to reassure Lloyds 
that I took the difference between pull and push payments into account in reaching my 
decision on this case.
Lloyds has cited another decision issued by one of our ombudsmen to highlight an 
inconsistency in the approach to whether the purpose of the payment ought to have raised 
suspicions. As Lloyds knows very well, each case referred to this service is considered on its 
own merits. The circumstances of the two cases are different. In the other case, there was 
no intervention from the customers bank. And the ombudsman wasnt persuaded that the 
disputed payments ought to have triggered an alert or given grounds for suspecting fraud. 
The question regarding the nature of the payment came up as part of the banks telephone 
banking process for executing payment instructions.
In this case, Lloyds did intervene  and more than once. This is an important distinction 
because the enquiries Lloyds made stemmed from fraud concerns about transactions that 
had already been flagged. In that instance, I consider it prudent for the bank to have probed 
further than to just accept a one-word answer from Mrs M. 
I think its also important to set out the context in which Mrs M answered the question in the 
call dated 13 July 2017. Initially, the call was transferred to a different department because 
there was a higher level block on the account which the agent Mrs M was speaking to at 
first was unable to remove. The agent from the higher-level department asked Mrs M several 
questions about her account activity. In relation to the payment in question, he also asked 
about the purpose of the payment. To quote him, the agent asked, What is it that youre 
doing? Are they bonds? To which Mrs M replied, stocks. Stocks is used liberally and 
without further context could mean different things to different people. That Lloyds inferred 
from that response that Mrs M was investing as opposed to, say, trading in stocks is not the 
same as her not being truthful or withholding information. 
If Lloyds had probed further, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Ive no reason to 
believe that Mrs M wouldnt have explained what she was doing. And its that explanation 
that I think ought to have given Lloyds grounds for suspecting fraud, leading on to warning 
her about the possibility of being scammed. 
As an aside, I note Lloyds has said that there was no reason for me to include whether the 
investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual in the list of questions it could 
have asked Mrs M. If it helps provide more context, I was merely setting out examples of the 
types of questions that a bank can ask its customer when seeking further clarification. For the avoidance of any doubt, the examples I gave arent exhaustive and its not up to us to 
dictate what questions a bank should ask to satisfy itself that all is well.    
Ive next considered what Lloyds has said about causation and why it believes an 
intervention is very unlikely to have made a difference to Mrs Ms decision-making. But it 
hasnt presented any persuasive arguments for me to change my mind on this point. RTC 
Finance may have been regulated in another jurisdiction at the time and there may not have 
been an FCA alert in place. But there were various regulatory warnings about risks 
associated with binary options trading and CFDs (set out in my provisional decision). And 
reports about this particular broker operating a scam had started surfacing in the public 
domain. 
Ive thought about Lloyds assertion that repeated ignorance of disclaimers from the broker is 
indicative of her reluctance to act differently. But the disclaimers were about risks involved in 
high-risk investments. This isnt the same as being warned about the risk of being 
defrauded. Mrs M had an existing relationship with Lloyds at the time of these payments. 
I remain satisfied that a warning from her trusted bank about the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud would probably have exposed the brokers deception. That she ignored the disclaimer 
is one of the reasons why I consider it fair to make a deduction for contributory negligence 
from the award Im making.
Taking account of funds Mrs M has already received back, and where I think Lloyds ought to 
have intervened, the loss in question is £263,700. For the reasons given above, Ive found 
that Mrs M is equally responsible for that loss alongside Lloyds. If I hadnt found Mrs M liable 
for any of the losses, Lloyds would be liable for them in full. But I would be prevented from 
making such an award because of the award limit in place.
As Ive found that Mrs M is equally responsible, that means Lloyds is responsible for half of 
the loss in question. This is below the statutory award limit and so I make this award in full.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Lloyds Bank PLC needs to reimburse Mrs M all the disputed payments 
to RTC Finance between 12 June 2017 and 8 September 2017 as set out in the what 
happened section (that means excluding the first five and the last four payments) less the 
£3,800 credit she received from RTC Finance; along with a 50% deduction for contributory 
negligence. 
As the payments were made from a current account, I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to also add simple interest at 8%, payable from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
needs to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman