DRN-4314483
The complaint
Miss W complains about the level of service provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy and that it has deemed her car to be repairable. 
She wants it to deem her car to be a total loss.
 
What happened
Another driver reversed into the side of Miss Ws car, and she made a claim to AXA. There 
were problems with delays and poor service. So Miss W arranged some repairs herself. She 
said there were mechanical problems caused by the accident as well as bodywork damage. 
AXA appointed an independent engineer to assess the car and he thought the mechanical 
damage was unrelated to the claim. And so AXA said the car was repairable and, due to 
previous poor repairs, it paid Miss W cash in lieu of repairs. AXA awarded Miss W £50 
compensation for service failings. Miss W was unhappy with its decision and its level of 
service. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought AXA 
had reasonably relied on the independent engineers report that the mechanical damage 
was unrelated to the accident. He thought it had reasonably decided that the car was 
repairable. But he thought AXAs level of service had been poor and it had caused avoidable 
delays in the claim. He thought it should pay Miss W £250 further compensation for this.
Miss W replied that her car had been well maintained before the accident which she thought 
had caused the mechanical damage. She said her car was no longer working. Miss W asked 
for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has explained that being without a driveable car has had a significant impact on her 
family and herself. I was sorry to hear about this and the impact on her health and finances. 
Miss W has raised a number of concerns about how AXA has dealt with her complaint and 
the service it has provided. But I think the crux of Miss Ws complaint is that AXA has 
decided that the engine problems arent due to the accident and that it wont declare her car 
to be a total loss. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that when Miss W raised concerns about the engine damage, AXA had her car 
inspected by an independent engineer. He said there was no evidence of impact damage to 
the engine. He said warning lights suggested the car had been poorly maintained. 
His report was reviewed by AXAs engineers. And it decided that damage to the nearside 
door was accident-related, but not the engine damage. This was because the engine 
damage wasnt near the site of the impact. And it thought the car had been poorly 
maintained. So AXA paid Miss W cash in lieu of repairs for the bodywork damage. 
Miss W had provided a report from her own garage. I can see that this gives an estimate for 
repairs to her car. But it doesnt distinguish between those that are related to her claim and 
other damage. I can see that AXA considered and rejected this estimate. And I think that 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I havent seen that AXA had any independent engineering evidence to show that the engine 
damage was caused by the accident. So Im satisfied that it has justified its decision that its 
responsible just for the bodywork damage. And as the independent engineer and AXAs 
engineers reports assess the car as repairable, I cant say that AXA should declare it to be a 
total loss. 
It took AXA some time to get to the point of offering Miss W a cash settlement. And Miss W 
had explained the impact the delays had on her family. I can see that Miss W had access to 
a courtesy car for a short time. But Miss W wasnt entitled to a courtesy car unless her car 
was taken for repairs. And as she was paid a cash settlement, AXA had indemnified her, and 
she wouldnt then be entitled to a courtesy car. 
But AXA has agreed that there were avoidable delays in the claim. And Im satisfied that 
these were avoidable and caused Miss W significant trouble and upset. AXA had already 
paid Miss W £50 compensation for its level of service. But our Investigator thought it should 
pay her £250 further compensation for the impact of the delays and its poor communication. 
I think thats in keeping with our published guidance where there have been errors that have 
had a significant impact over several months. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
I can see that Miss W has raised concerns about AXAs investigation of liability for the 
accident. But I cant consider that here as I cant see that AXA has responded to Miss Ws 
complaint about this. 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss W £250 further compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its delays in her claim, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed 
to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman