DRN-4184711
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a solar panel system (the system) for their home in 2013. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentation of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr and Mrs C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, 
which they werent.
Shawbrook responded to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint explaining that it felt they were out of 
time to raise a complaint and also felt that it was outside of this services jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He explained that the 
complaint had been brought in time, and that this service did have jurisdiction to consider the 
merits of it. 
Shawbrook accepted our investigators view and said it would now assess the merits of 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It then accepted their claim and asked for electricity bills and 
Feed in Tariff (FIT) statements to work out their loss. After carrying out a redress calculation 
in line with our services established approach to compensation in these types of cases, it 
explained that Mr and Mrs C had suffered no loss. But it did offer compensation of £200 for 
the way it had dealt with their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with Shawbrooks offer and instead wanted £300 compensation 
for the way Shawbrook had handled their complaint. They explained the following:
The supplier used pressure tactics to get them to buy the system and also made 
misleading statements regarding the system being self-funding.  
The complicated nature of the redress means they are not able to check 
Shawbrooks calculations and feel Shawbrook could have manipulated the figures to 
avoid paying compensation. 
They feel their current electricity rate doesnt make the solar panels cost effective 
and they have invested further in batteries to make the system more financial 
worthwhile.
They have lost faith in self-generated electricity due to Shawbrooks poor response to 
their initial complaint. 
Our investigator explained that, while he accepted the service they received was poor, the 
offer made by Shawbrook of £200 was fair and he didnt recommend Shawbrook increase its 
offer. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs Cs representative are familiar with all the rules, regulations and 
good industry practice we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our 
well-established approach. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this 
decision.
Our adjudicator explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint and as both 
parties have accepted this, I dont need to consider this any further. 
Bearing in mind that both parties have also accepted that the system was mis-represented to 
Mr and Mrs C, I dont need to consider that as part of this decision. It seems clear, the only 
matter left in dispute is whether Shawbrook has offered a fair amount of compensation in 
response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint which Ill consider as part of this decision. 
Firstly, it may be helpful to clarify that Mr and Mrs C have reiterated that theyre unhappy 
with how the system was represented to them, that the sales representative made mis-
leading statements and used pressure tactics to encourage them to buy the system. But 
these claims have already been accepted by Shawbrook, which is why it agreed to uphold 
their complaint and carried out a redress calculation to assess whether theyd suffer any 
loss. 
It may also be helpful to explain that where we are satisfied that a system has been 
misrepresented to consumers, our aim is to ensure that customers suffer no loss, and we 
have an established approach to redress in these types of cases. We ask financial 
businesses to work out what benefit (usually including savings and Feed in tariff (FIT) 
payments) consumers are likely to achieve over the term of the loan and ask financial 
businesses to charge consumers no more than that for the system. So, consumers pay no 
more for the system then the likely benefit they will receive over the term of the loan, and 
any benefit they receive after that is theirs to keep. 
Financial businesses use any data of performance and benefits received to date, and use a 
number of agreed reasonable assumptions about future performance to formulate the likely 
benefit a consumer will achieve over the term of the loan (i.e. the self-funding amount). 
Financial businesses can then charge the consumers no more than that. 
Shawbrook has said that Mr and Mrs Cs self-funding amount (i.e. the likely amount of 
benefit they will receive over 15-years) is £15,583.20. And theyve paid in total £10,404.59 
for the system. As they will receive more benefit than theyve paid out, they have suffered no 
loss. While I understand Mr and Mrs Cs concerns regarding the calculation, Id like to 
reassure them that Shawbrook is expected to carry out such calculations in a formulated and 
agreed way  and Ive seen nothing to suggest this hasnt been followed. 
I understand their disappointment at how the system has performed and that the benefits 
received to date havent met their expectations. I also appreciate why theyve lost faith in 
Shawbrook as it initially refused to consider their claim. But having looked at the figures 
submitted by Shawbrook, I think its likely they have, and will continue to, receive significant 
benefit from the system, and the amount they will receive far exceeds the amount of money 
theyve spent purchasing the system. Having checked their FIT statements, I can see their system is on average generating more 
energy than estimated in their MCS certificate. This means the system is performing very 
well. Its likely that they will use some of the energy produced (especially given they now 
have batteries to store some energy too), and this will lead to them purchasing less energy 
from their providers. I appreciate it can seem difficult to see the usefulness of the system, 
given the significant rise in electricity costs, and the payments most consumers are actually 
making now to their providers compared to a few years ago. But, as some of their electricity 
needs will be met by their system, this will mean they will be paying less than they would 
have without the system. I would also stress, the rise in costs, has not been caused by 
Shawbrook or the installers. 
Like our investigator says, I accept the way Shawbrook has handled the complaint has not 
met the standards we would expect. Shawbrook also accepts this which is why it offered 
compensation to recognise this. But given Shawbrook accepted Mr and Mrs Cs claim on 
review of their case (without the need for this service to make that order) and that Mr and 
Mrs C have suffered no loss due to the misrepresentation, I think the offer made is fair, and 
in line with what we expect so I dont order it to pay anymore. 
Putting things right
I direct Shawbrook to pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and ask Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman