DRN-2758661
The complaint
Mr and Miss A complain about John Bateman Insurance Consultants Limited (Bateman
Group) regarding the adequacy of their buildings insurance, and Bateman Groups
communication with them about being under-insured. They want to be compensated for the
difference in their claim value and for their out of pocket expenses.
What happened
Mr and Miss A own a number of properties which they let out.
They have held buildings insurance, and renewed their policy each year, through Bateman 
Group (acting as broker).
One of Mr and Miss As properties was initially insured with a rebuild valuation of around
£500,000. The insurer index linked the value of the property and adjusted this each year at
renewal.
By the insurance period 2016/2017 the property was insured at a rebuild valuation of around
£620,000.
Mr and Miss A had made a claim in around 2011 and that claim was paid in full.
In 2017, Mr and Miss As property suffered a serious escape of water.
They submitted a claim under their policy.
Their insurer sent a loss adjuster to their property and considered that the sum insured was
insufficient. The loss assessor considered that they were under insured by 35%.
Bateman Group became aware of the level of under insurance in March 2018. They did not
communicate this with Mr and Miss A.
The insurer subsequently applied its under insurance clause and explained that there would
be a proportionate reduction made in the claim settlement, to reflect that the property had
been under insured; a process known as the application of average.
When Mr and Miss A learned of this, around a year later, they instructed Bateman Group to
increase their sum insured, which increased their premium.
Mr and Miss A complained to Bateman Group. They felt that Bateman Group should have
done more to help them ensure that the property was properly valued for insurance
purposes.
Bateman Group sent Mr and Miss A their final response in mid-2019. They rejected the
complaint about under insurance and considered that it is the responsibility of the policy
holder to ensure that the sums insured are adequate. They did, however, acknowledge that
there had been a delay in telling Mr and Miss A about the issue. To reflect that, Bateman
Group offered to pay 50% of the increase in their premium for the current year.
Mr and Miss A were not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and has set out her view to the parties.
This was that she considered that Bateman Group had not taken sufficient steps to help Mr 
and Miss A check the reinstatement value of their property. She therefore thought that 
Bateman Group should pay the remaining proportion of the claim, which was no longer 
covered by the insurer.
Bateman Group did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings and the parties responses 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021. 
In that provisional decision I explained that I considered it a failing of Bateman Group not to 
advise Mr and Miss A of their insurers view about under insurance between March 2018 and 
Spring 2019. I considered, however, that Bateman Groups offer of compensation to reflect 
this failing was reasonable. 
I also explained that I did not consider that Bateman Group had failed in relation to advising 
Mr and Miss A about satisfying themselves that the sum insured was sufficient. 
Bateman included in its renewal information that Mr and Miss A should check that the cover 
provided is still adequate for [their] needs and the information is correct and in particular 
adequacy of sums insured appropriate to [their] premises. Recent examples have 
highlighted under-insurance in many areas.
I considered that this was enough to put Mr and Miss A on notice that they needed to satisfy 
themselves that their renewal was based upon correct information. 
The parties then had an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. 
Bateman group responded indicating that it had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Miss As representative responded disagreeing with my provisional decision. He 
pointed to articles currently, and previously, published on our website which say that we will 
consider whether a business has given sufficient information to a consumer to enable them 
to provide accurate information. 
The articles say that we may look at whether a business has offered signposting to 
professional services and valuation calculators, or otherwise helped a consumer to reach the 
accurate figure. He therefore submits that he is surprised that I do not consider this as an 
essential part of the broker role, or a failing when signposting to calculators was not offered.
Mr and Miss As representative also disputes that Mr and Miss A were sophisticated 
consumers and argues that despite the properties being commercial consumer protections 
should still apply. He also argues that Bateman Groups failure to inform Mr and Miss A of 
the under-insurance was very serious. 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the submissions received, and I also made enquiries into the earlier claim 
to see if any information was available to explain how the under insurance had arisen, 
seemingly since 2011. 
Through these enquiries it has become clear that Bateman Group did not have access to 
any valuations carried out in 2011, and that Mr and Miss As insurance provider at the time 
of the 2017 claim had only provided cover since 2015. 
In respect of Mr and Miss As representatives comments, I have had regard to factors which 
we consider in similar cases. The articles referred to make clear that a business may have to 
offer help to a consumer in order for the consumer to provide required information. 
This complaint, however, concerns a renewal, rather than an advised sale of a new product. 
The question being answered was, therefore, whether consumer was satisfied that the 
valuations previously provided were still accurate.
Although I think it would have been preferable for Bateman Group to signpost Mr and Miss A 
to professional advice concerning the calculation of the value of their property, the 
responsibility to consider the adequacy of the valuation remains with the consumers. It 
follows from this that I think it sufficient for a broker to remind the consumer that they need to 
check the sum insured, as Bateman Group did here.  
Mr and Miss A did not raise any concern with the sum insured and did not indicate that they 
were unsure how to satisfy themselves of the value. 
I note Mr and Miss As representatives comments about whether Mr or Miss A were 
vulnerable, and that Bateman Group were not on notice of any reason to treat them as 
vulnerable. I agree that consumer protections apply, even when the properties are run on a 
commercial basis, but as I have set out above, I think that Bateman Group discharged its 
obligations by reminding Mr and Miss A to check their sums insured. 
In relation to the comments about Bateman Groups failure to inform Mr and Miss A of the 
under-insurance issue, I agree that this was a failing, and that it could have had serious 
consequences had Mr and Miss A encountered another claim during that period. However, 
Bateman Group became aware after the claim in 2017 and so its delayed notification had no 
impact on that claim. 
I have acknowledged this and that it is fortunate that no further claims arose. As there was 
no financial loss caused by this, however, I consider that Bateman Groups offer of 
compensation is sufficient to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by that failing, 
and that this compensation is in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
I understand why Mr and Miss A remain upset, but for these reasons I remain of the view 
expressed in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, and the reasons given in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr and 
Miss As complaint and do not ask John Bateman Insurance Consultants Limited to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman