DRN-4444522
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK PLC wont refund money that he says he lost to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr S made the following payments from his Santander bank account to a crypto exchange:
Date Type Amount
26 May 2021 Faster payment £1,800
26 May 2021 Faster payment £100
27 May 2021 Faster payment £100
27 May 2021 Faster payment £600
27 May 2021 Faster payment £350
28 May 2021 Faster payment £550
28 May 2021 Faster payment £1,180
4 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
4 June 2021 Faster payment £80,000
6 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
6 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
7 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
8 June 2021 Faster payment £20,000
8 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
8 June 2021 Faster payment £20,000
8 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
8 June 2021 Faster payment £20,000
8 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
11 June 2021 Faster payment £40,000
12 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
20 June 2021 Faster payment £10,000
Total: £274,680
He also received a £100 credit from the crypto exchange on 27 May 2021  bringing the net 
amount to £274,580. 
Mr S contacted Santander in March 2023 saying hed fallen victim to a crypto scam. He 
explained to Santander that he received about £340,000 compensation as a result of 
suffering a life changing injury from a traffic incident. And that, while waiting for the money to 
arrive, he came across video content online that he left a comment on and which prompted a 
reply from an individual offering guidance on what he should do with the funds. This person 
directed him to invest in crypto and initially it did well before dropping in value, which 
prompted Mr S to request a withdrawal but he was advised against this. And so, Mr S said 
he left the funds invested and, after waiting and seeing an improvement, he recently tried 
again to withdraw the funds. At which point, the funds were removed from his crypto account 
and the person had disappeared with all methods of contact ceasing.   
Mr S told Santander that he visited the branch when he made the first major transaction, 
explaining to them it was for crypto and that he was being advised. And the deposit for 
£80,000 was followed by further payments over the next two days  totalling £270,000  with 
no further questions asked. He explained hed only ever put money in, with no withdrawals 
received, and the crypto account was managed by this adviser  who had access to the 
account. 
Santander declined the fraud claim and provided their final response to Mr S on 
28 June 2023. They acknowledged Mr Ss situation but said their investigations showed it 
wasnt due to a mistake or error on their part. They apologised for the journey and service 
Mr S received but said they were unable to investigate the branch visit in 2021. Santander 
also provided a response they received from the intermediary payment service provider 
(PSP) that handled the transactions in 2021 regarding the fraud claim. The PSP said the 
transactions were executed in accordance with their terms and that they no longer support 
transactions to the crypto exchange  due to the Financial Conduct Authority not permitting 
the crypto exchange to undertake any regulatory activity in the UK. And so, they couldnt 
provide a refund or provide any additional information. 
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said:
He was left physically disabled because of the traffic incident, but it also left him 
vulnerable mentally as he suffered with severe depression, anxiety and PTSD.
He communicated with the adviser via an instant messaging service app whereby he 
was told they wouldnt ordinarily accept him as a client as they usually only accepted 
those with £500,000 or more to invest. But they were willing to make an exception 
for him because of what hed been through. The adviser then opened the account 
with the crypto exchange for Mr S and urged him to send the funds across 
immediately. 
Santander blocked his account following a phone call which required him to go into 
branch for it to be removed. And he arrived at the branch, before it opened, looking 
like a crazy person as he was wearing a ripped top and shorts and was visibly 
shaking with nerves. Upon entering the branch, a member of staff unblocked his 
account and processed the transfer of funds to the crypto account. 
He was concerned about how the staff member handled the situation as they ought 
to have been more familiar with crypto scams and so, they shouldve asked him 
more than whether the funds were going to an account in his own name  including, 
for example, whether hed opened the account himself. He also felt it wouldve been 
reasonable for Santander to have invoked the Banking Protocol as it was a unique 
situation given he didnt provide proof of the source of funds; his account balance 
hadnt been more than £2,000 previously and both his appearance and behaviour 
was strange.
Santander shouldve seen the transactions as suspicious and raised red flags, but at 
no point did Santander reach out to contact him. 
He also found out, about ten days after making the payments, that some UK banks 
had applied restrictions on crypto transactions  but, again, Santander didnt make 
him aware of this either before or after the transactions. If Santander had a conversation with him about the payments then his loss and the 
pain hes suffered couldve been avoided. He was in a vulnerable position and naive 
with crypto, whereas Santander have much more experience in these matters. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but she didnt think Santander had to do 
anything further. She said it wasnt in dispute whether Mr S authorised the transactions. But 
while Santander are expected to protect customers from fraud and scams, these 
expectations are based on there having been a fraud or scam. And, from the available 
evidence, she couldnt reasonably conclude Mr S had been the victim of a scam. This is 
because, other than his testimony, Mr S hadnt been able to show what happened to the 
funds other than it being sent to a crypto exchange, used to buy crypto, and then withdrawn 
from the account over a year later. And its not a common feature of a scam for funds to 
remain within the victims crypto account for such a long time  as its typically immediately 
withdrawn by the scammers. Our Investigator also added that Mr S hadnt been able to show 
any of his interactions with the scammer, although she noted Mr Ss reasons for this  that 
being the scammer deleted and removed the conversation history on the instant messaging 
service app - were plausible. But in the absence of any documentary evidence to prove the 
payments were made as a result of a scam, she didnt think she could reasonably conclude 
Mr S had been scammed. 
Mr S disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, and further to 
what Mr S had already explained, he added:
The scammer managed his portfolio and invested on his behalf, and so was in full 
control of his crypto account. The scammer also added pressure by urging him to 
transfer funds so not to miss out on opportunities. And so, prior to receiving the 
compensation for his injury, he borrowed money from a friend.
The scammer initially tried to delay and prevent the withdrawal request by telling him 
it wasnt in his best interests. It was only when he was adamant about the withdrawal 
that the scammer withdrew all the funds and deleted all traces of their conversation. 
Santander was in the strongest position to identify and prevent the scam given their 
greater knowledge and experience. And there was a clear duty of care owed by 
Santander to safeguard him from this scam  particularly given they were aware of 
his vulnerable position.
Santander is under a duty to refrain from executing payments if they have reasonable 
grounds to believe the instruction could be an attempt to misappropriate funds from 
the customer. Santander shouldve had reasonable grounds for this  and they acted 
negligently by missing many clear opportunities to intervene and protect him. 
Santander failed to exercise reasonable skill or care in carrying out his instructions  
as they facilitated the complex scam by allowing significant sums of money to be 
transferred to an account controlled by a criminal. 
If hed been questioned or probed sufficiently about the payments, he wouldve 
openly explained the reasons for them  with Santander identifying signs of it being a 
crypto scam. And had they done this, he wouldnt be raising this complaint today. 
He wouldve listened and responded positively to any advice given by Santander had 
it been provided  and so he wouldve taken steps to withdraw the funds hed 
deposited so far. 
The only scam warning he received from Santander was generic and provided when 
setting up the new payee. And the only disruption to using his Santander bank account happened when they blocked his account as a result of the telephone call 
which prompted him having to go in to branch.
The scam hasnt been disputed by Santander.
Hes done his best to demonstrate hes been scammed  showing the money went to 
the crypto account before being stolen from that platform (and he cant show where 
the crypto went as there isnt any associated name with these transactions). He also 
went into detail about the online video content he came across where the scammer 
first contacted him. And so, he feels it is unfair to say the only evidence he has 
provided is his own testimony.
What information he can reasonably provide should also be considered here  as 
there isnt any factual evidence he can provide to show where the funds have been 
transferred. It also makes sense that a scammer would delete incriminating evidence, 
as happened here with his conversation history being erased. And so, it isnt fair for 
him to be penalised for not being able to provide such evidence. Nor should his 
complaint be dismissed due to factors out of his control. 
He had however, after speaking with his friend whom he borrowed money from, 
retrieved some screenshots of the conversation he had with the scammer that he 
sent to her. And he provided these to the Financial Ombudsman to bolster his 
evidence of the scam. 
He doesnt think it is fair for the Financial Ombudsman to decide what is typical of a 
scam, as theyre all unique. And here, he told the scammer that his mother was going 
to receive a large sum of money and so he may be able to invest more. This would 
explain why the scammer delayed withdrawing the funds as they wanted to steal as 
much as possible, and already had his trust. 
Mr Ss friend also provided a witness statement to support his claim that he has been the 
victim of a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S will be disappointed but having done so, and for reasons that Ill go on to 
explain, Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator. 
Id like to say at the outset that I appreciate Mr S has gone to considerable effort when 
providing his submissions in support of his complaint  providing significant detail as to what 
he says happened and why he thinks Santander is responsible for the loss he suffered. I 
therefore want to reassure him that Ive given everything hes said careful consideration. And 
so, while Ive summarised his points, and in far less detail than he provided, I want to stress 
that no discourtesy is intended by this. And if there is a submission or point that Ive not 
addressed, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Instead, its simply because Ive focussed on what 
I consider to be the central issues in this complaint  that being whether Mr S was the victim 
of a scam and if Santander is responsible for the loss he claims to have suffered. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, consumers are generally liable for 
payments they authorise. Santander is expected to process authorised payment instructions without undue delay. But as a bank, they also have long-standing obligations to help protect 
customers from financial harm from fraud and scams. Those obligations are however 
predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. And so, it would only be reasonable for me 
to consider whether Santander is responsible for the loss Mr S claims to have suffered if, 
indeed, he has been scammed. Ive therefore considered whether Mr S was a victim of a 
scam. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr S sent the above payments to a crypto exchange in May/June 2021. 
And Mr S has shown that the funds, which were used to purchase crypto, were withdrawn 
from his crypto account in September/October 2022. Given the anonymous nature of crypto 
transactions, I havent seen anything to show where the crypto was sent  although 
Mr S insists it was stolen by the adviser who had full access to his crypto account and was 
managing his portfolio on his behalf. 
While Ive considered Mr Ss testimony, I cant be certain what happened to the crypto held 
in his account. So, Ive looked at the evidence that is available when considering whether 
Mr S was scammed or not. Mr S has explained he hasnt been able to provide the online 
video content that he commented on as it has since been removed. Nor can he provide the 
chat history with the scammer as hes explained they deleted it when contact ceased. He 
has however provided several screenshots that he says he sent to his friend, when he asked 
to borrow money, which shows parts of the conversation with the scammer. Ive reviewed 
this carefully and, while it does appear to refer to a deposit being required for some form of 
investment, it doesnt provide any specifics of the investment nor does it evidence when this 
conversation took place, or whether it relates to the payments in dispute. I therefore dont 
think this alone is enough for me to reasonably conclude Mr S made the payments because 
of a scam. 
Mr Ss friend has also provided a statement in support of his complaint. But while I 
understand Mr Ss reasons for providing this, the friend isnt independent to what happened 
 as, from what Mr S has told us, she is owed money that remains to be repaid and so 
naturally has a vested interest in the outcome of this complaint. I therefore dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to rely too heavily on this statement here. 
I do however think its relevant to look at what happened to the funds after they were sent to 
the crypto account. At which point, Id like to acknowledge Mr Ss point that he doesnt think 
the Financial Ombudsman should consider what is typical of a scam as theyre often unique.  
But while scams can have differences, I must decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened here  and so, I think it reasonable to take into account the common features of 
crypto scams when doing so. And this includes what happened to the money after leaving 
Mr Ss Santander bank account.
In Mr Ss case, the funds were sent to the crypto exchange in May/June 2021 but werent 
withdrawn until September/October 2022  roughly 16 months later. Mr S has suggested the 
reason for the delay in the funds being withdrawn was likely due to the scammer having his 
trust, and because hed told the scammer that hed likely be able to invest a further 
substantial amount in the future. And so, the scammer wanted to try to obtain as much 
money out of Mr S as possible. While Ive considered this, I find this highly unlikely. This is 
because, although scammers will often try to squeeze further money out of their victims, I 
think its more probable that a scammer wouldve immediately withdrawn the funds upon it 
being deposited in the crypto account  especially when considering it was more than a 
quarter of a million pounds. I consider it unlikely that a scammer wouldve left the funds in 
the crypto account, accessible to Mr S, for a sustained amount of time as there wouldve 
been the risk of the scam being uncovered and the funds being withdrawn by Mr S. And if a 
scammer was trying to entice Mr S to invest further, I wouldve expected them to have 
moved the crypto onto another trading platform  which likely wouldnt have been genuine  
whereby Mr S wouldnt have had access to his funds. That didnt happen here and so, after given it careful thought and taken into consideration the limited evidence that is available 
beyond Mr Ss testimony, I dont think I can reasonably conclude Mr Ss payments to the 
crypto exchange were made as part of a scam. 
Mr S has said Santander failed to exercise reasonable skill or care in carrying out his 
instructions, and that theyre under a duty not to execute payments where there are 
reasonable grounds for them to suspect the instruction could be an attempt to 
misappropriate funds. Mr S is correct in that Santander should protect their customers from 
fraud and scams  by looking out for unusual or suspicious payments and carrying out 
additional checks before processing them. But, as Ive explained, these obligations are 
predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. And given Ive concluded that these 
payments werent made as part of a scam, these obligations dont apply here. Nor can I 
therefore reasonably conclude that any further questioning or probing of Mr S about the 
payment wouldve made a difference given there wasnt a scam to uncover.
I appreciate Mr S feels he shouldnt be penalised for not being able to provide evidence that 
is outside of his control. But I must make a decision here based on the evidence that is 
available to me. And while Im extremely sympathetic to Mr Ss personal circumstances 
regarding the injuries he sustained from the traffic incident, it would only be fair for me to 
direct Santander to refund the payments if I thought Mr S had been the victim of a scam and 
the bank were responsible for the loss  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. For 
the above reasons, I dont think Santander has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman