DRN-2344496
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mr G 
has said this was a phone sale but Barclays has sent an application form and says this was 
a branch application form.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr Gs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr G says the PPI was just included with his card. But his card application form had a 
separate Payment Protection Insurance section with boxes to mark to say he either 
required or didnt require the cover. Also, nothing on the form said the PPI had to be 
taken. On Mr Gs form, which he signed to take the card, the box saying he required the 
cover was marked  and I think he wouldve known that if he didnt want the cover the 
box saying he didnt require the protection shouldve been marked instead. So I think it 
likely Barclays made it clear Mr G didnt have to take the PPI, and he chose to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check it was right for him. And the 
evidence about his circumstances at the time, shows the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr G was eligible for the cover and, from what 
hes told us, wouldve got only statutory pay for sickness or redundancy and didnt have 
savings or anything else to fall back on if he couldnt work. So I think he had a need for 
the cover. 
Also, nothing about Mr Gs employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim and he hasnt told us of having any existing health issues the policy would exclude. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it - so it looks to me like he wanted this 
type of cover. 
Also the cover wasnt unsuitable or fundamentally wrong for Mr G, as I concluded above. 
I also think its likely it wasnt too dissimilar to what its likely he thought he was buying, 
taking into account that I dont think he wouldve agreed to take the policy without having 
at least a broad understanding of the cover it provided. It also looks like it was affordable, 
taking everything into account. 
It seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr G if something went wrong in the 
circumstances it covered. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think he 
wouldve declined the cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr G wouldve still taken PPI. Given his circumstances I think the policy 
couldve provided a useful benefit  and at what couldve been a difficult time if Mr G had lost 
his job or was too sick to work. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely 
Mr G thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think it likely he wouldve taken 
the policy in any event.
Mr Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Barclays doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman