DRN-3103713
Complaint
Mrs R has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with unaffordable 
loans. She says that TFS Loans ought to have seen that these loans were unaffordable for 
her.
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mrs R with a loan of £1,500.00 in March 2011. This loan had an APR of 
95% which meant the total amount to be repaid was £2,794.12 and was due to be repaid in 
24 instalments of around £116.38. 
Loan 2, which was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, was for 
£1,000.00 and provided in June 2013. It had an APR of 82.8% which meant the total amount 
to be repaid of £1,768.56 was due to be repaid in 24 instalments of around £73.69. 
Loan 3, which was also secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, was for 
£3,500.00 and provided in March 2014. Some of the proceeds from this loan were used to 
repay loan 2. Loan 3 had an APR of 48.6% which meant the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,089.04 was due to be repaid in 36 instalments of around £277. 
 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans hadnt treated 
Mrs R unfairly when providing loan 1. However, he thought that TFS Loans also ought to 
have realised that Mrs R wasnt able to sustainably repay loans 2 and 3. 
Mrs R didnt dispute our investigators findings. But TFS Loans did and asked for an 
ombudsman to review this complaint.    
As the parties appear to be in agreement with the investigators findings on loan 1, this 
decision is only looking at whether TFS Loans acted fairly and reasonably when providing 
loans 2 and 3.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Rs complaint. 
Having considered the information provided for loans 2 and 3, Mrs R told TFS Loans that her 
monthly income was just over £1,100.00. TFS Loans appears to have asked Mrs R to 
provide payslips to support this being the case and also carried out a credit check. 
The credit check for loan 2 showed that Mrs R had defaulted on a number of additional 
accounts since having been provided with loan 1, which was supposed to have helped her 
situation. As far as I can see she had at least seven more in the just over two year period 
between loans 1 and 2. So Im satisfied that there was no reasonable basis to have 
proceeded with the clearly over optimistic income and expenditure declarations that had 
been provided.
Bearing this in mind, I think that TFS Loans ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that 
Mrs Rs financial position was worsening and as such that any further lending was simply 
unsustainable for her. I say this because TFS Loans was required to establish whether     
Mrs R could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on 
the basis that it, in any event, had a second bite of the cherry because it was now able to 
recover payments from the guarantor. 
Mrs Rs prolonged history of defaulted accounts, coupled with the credit checks showing that 
the position worsening, demonstrated that shed had significant difficulty meeting her existing 
commitments to multiple creditors. Mrs R may have told TFS Loans that this wouldnt be a 
problem going forward but TFS Loans checks showed this obviously wasnt happening. 
So I think that TFS Loans ought to have realised that there was a strong possibility Mrs R 
would either borrow further to repay what she owed, like she did by taking loan 3, or worse 
still default on her commitments in the way shed done on a number of occasions in the past. 
Its also telling that TFS Loans would only lend if Mrs R was able to find a guarantor when it 
provided loan 1 without. And, given the circumstances at the time of loans 2 and 3, I dont 
see how TFS Loans didnt see that it would be increasing Mrs Rs indebtedness in a way 
that was always likely to be unsustainable otherwise harmful. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that TFS Loans failed to take account of Mrs Rs 
circumstances suggesting that providing loans 2 and 3 would increase her indebtedness in a 
way that was always likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful for her. So I dont think 
that it was fair for TFS Loans to have provided Mrs R with these guarantor loans.
As Mrs R paid interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS Loans did wrong. 
So I think that TFS Loans needs to put things right.  
 Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs R
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including any broker and loan administration 
fees) Mrs R paid as a result of loans 2 and 3;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were originally paid by Mrs R to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mrs R in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman