DRN-3901310
The complaint
P is a sole trader. Mrs P is unhappy with a number of aspects of the service she received 
from The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) when operating her business account.  
What happened
Mrs P has had a business account (the Account) with The Co-op for a number of years. The 
Account bore both her initials, followed by her surname and the trading as name of her 
business.
In May 2020, Mrs P took out a £20,000 Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with The Co-op which ran 
alongside the Account. 
Mrs P has told us that:
Although she began experiencing problems operating the Account during the 2020 
pandemic, contrary to her expectations things didnt improve much after it had ended. 
In particular, from around 2021, online banking services were frequently off-line.  
Difficulties operating the Account was further exacerbated by unauthorised changes 
that the bank had made to the name on the Account. That resulted in her customers 
being unable to make payments to her business.  
The banks customer service in general was also poor, especially in relation to the 
time it took the bank to respond to telephone calls. 
As a consequence of The Co-ops poor service, her business reputation became 
damaged.  
The business also suffered financial loss arising from the unclear nature of the banks 
on-line statements for the Account. More particularly, the statements differed from 
those of other banks in the sense that they omitted to include addresses and IBAN 
numbers. That meant she was unable to claim certain grants from local authorities 
because they didnt think the statements were genuine.     
In March and September 2021, Mrs P complained to The Co-op about these matters, 
including that they hadnt been providing her with clear and informative statements in relation 
to the Account. She also told the bank it had omitted to provide any statements at all for the 
Bounce Back Loan shed completed a year earlier. 
In their final response to the complaint, The Co-op said  in summary:
There were issues with their on-line banking service which impacted Mrs P.  But they 
said that an updated version of their system was introduced to iron out those issues. 
And furthermore, they were working on new versions which in due course will be 
released in order to improve things still further. 
Call wait times have been unreasonably lengthy. But the bank has been recruiting 
more staff to address this issue, although the process takes time, not least given the 
banks desire to ensure it recruits the right people and provide appropriate training.
They made no changes to the name on the Account. If Mrs Ps clients have been 
using the correct name and sort code when making payments and yet were 
experiencing issues when doing so, then that might be because of the introduction by 
the bank of the Confirmation of Payee system (CoP) which was aimed at ensuring 
better account security for customers.  
That being said, in connection with two aspects of Mrs Ps complaint, however: (a) 
failing to send her copies of the Bounce Back Loan statements and (b) experiencing 
longer call wait times, The Co-op acknowledged providing poor service to Mrs P and 
that this caused her inconvenience. So, the bank paid Mrs P £40 in compensation. 
Beyond that, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
But Mrs P didnt believe the bank had done enough to ensure the problems shed been 
experiencing were brought finally to an end. And she felt she was entitled to more 
compensation especially, to take account of the financial loss she said her business suffered 
as a result of The Co-ops failings. And so, since her complaint could not be resolved, Mrs P 
referred it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the bank was at fault in connection with certain aspects of Mrs 
Ps complaint. In relation to those matters, he concluded the following:
On-line banking
He appreciated Mrs P would have liked the on-line banking service to run perfectly at 
all times and she did experience problems when trying to access it. Nonetheless, he 
noted the bank had taken steps to improve things. In particular by the introduction of 
various systems upgrades. 
He recognised that this was still a work in progress. But he said were not the 
regulator and our role is not to punish financial businesses. Rather, it is to determine 
whether a financial business has been fair and reasonable in the way it has acted 
towards the complainant. With that in mind and having regard to the steps the bank 
had taken to remedy the on-line problems and to explain to Mrs P the steps it 
proposed taking further still, he was satisfied The Co-op acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances of this case. 
altering the name on the Account 
The name on the Account hadnt been amended on the banks system. And in so far 
as Mrs Ps customers had difficulties making payments into it, it seemed likely that 
was due to the introduction of CoP as the bank suggested. And whilst The Co-op did 
explain CoP to Mrs P, including its functionality, they could have done more in that 
regard.Nonetheless, the investigator did uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part. He was satisfied that the 
bank had failed to send BBL statements to Mrs P, and that she did experience longer wait 
times when she phoned the bank. 
He was also satisfied that Mrs Ps customers experienced difficulties making payments to 
the Account. However, contrary to what Mrs P believed, he wasnt persuaded those 
difficulties came from changes to the name on the Account. Rather, he concluded that those 
difficulties arose from The Co-ops introduction of CoP.  Furthermore, in this connection, the 
investigator felt The Co-op provided poor service to Mrs P. He concluded that the bank failed 
to explain clearly to Mrs P how the CoP system worked so that she could ensure her 
customers were able to successfully make payments into the Account. 
In addition, therefore, to the £40 the bank already paid to Mrs P, the investigator 
recommended it should pay a further £250 in order properly to compensate Mrs P for the 
impact of its poor service. 
The Co-op agreed with the investigators conclusions. But Mrs P didnt. She believed her 
business has incurred losses beyond the amount the investigator recommended and so she 
asked for an ombudsman to review her case. 
In doing so, Mrs P provided further detailed submissions. But Ive noted that the submissions 
largely expanded on the arguments shes made all along regarding the banks poor service 
and how her business has been impacted both financially and reputationally as a result. 
I summarise what I regard as the key points:
The online banking down time was excessive. For example, in one instance there 
was no service from Saturday 18 and Sunday 19 March 2022 through to 4pm on 
Monday 20 March 2022. She regards as inadequate a response along the lines that 
the on-line banking is a work in progress.  Whilst she appreciates its not the role of 
our service to punish the bank, she believes it is at least part of our role to put right 
the banks errors and ensure the problems shes been experiencing are resolved. 
The Co-op changed the name of the Account without telling her. This affected new 
customers, particularly when they tried to make payments to the business.  For 
example, when making a payment on-line, entering the trading as name of the 
business would generally work. But because The Co-op changed the Accounts 
name, it no longer did for new customers, albeit, customers whod paid into the 
Account before 2020 were unaffected.
The Co-op caused the business to suffer financial loss, including a local authority 
grant. In this regard, the local authority viewed with suspicion the online statements 
that shed submitted in connection with her funding application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.Having reviewed Mrs Ps case in detail, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Bounce back loan statements and call wait times.
The Co-op have acknowledged providing poor service to Mrs P in both these areas. And 
furthermore, they accepted the investigators recommended £250 compensation, on top of 
the £40 they had already paid, to better reflect the inconvenience caused by their poor 
service. In light of this, and noting Mrs Ps unhappiness with that amount, what I have to 
decide is whether, nonetheless the proposed settlement is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Ill come to that in a moment. First, Ill address the other aspects of Mrs Ps complaint.
Difficulties with on-line banking
I appreciate when Mrs P elected to have the banks on-line banking service, it was not an 
unreasonable expectation that The Co-op should take reasonable steps to deliver a reliable 
service. 
Mrs P has told us that from time to time she faced challenges in her attempt to use the on-
line service. And I note the particular weekend shes told us she was without any on-line 
service. The impact of which was keenly felt as she also told us, because normally she does 
the accountancy work for her business at the weekend and she was unable to do so over 
that weekend. 
I understand therefore, the frustration that would have caused to Mrs P. And more generally 
the sense of frustration on the other occasions she wasnt able to access the service.  Given 
her account that the on-line service is still not without its problems, it is also understandable, 
as she also explained, her decision to refer her complaint to this service, was in hope we 
could direct The Co-op to resolve those problems finally. 
The bank does not deny there have been problems with this service which have impacted 
negatively the overall customer experience. But as I would reasonably have expected, I note 
from the banks evidence, including the information it shared with Mrs P and other 
customers, that it has attempted to resolve these issues. More particularly, the introduction 
in March 2022 of an updated version of its system which was aimed at improving customers 
online banking experience. 
I dont doubt Mrs Ps testimony that the service is still not without its problems. Its perhaps 
doubtful nonetheless that any such system, given the IT component, will ever operate error 
free. That being said, Im satisfied overall that the bank has taken reasonable steps to 
address the online problems Mrs P has experienced and against that background I do not 
find it has treated her unfairly.  
Alleged changes to the name on the Account. 
Mrs P said The Co-op changed the name on the Account sometime after it was open;  
including omitting to include the second initial of her name in the title. But the bank has 
shared its internal records demonstrating how the Account is recorded on its systems. I have 
no reason to doubt the accuracy of those records and Im satisfied they do not show The Co-
op has changed the name of the Account. The records show the Account is recorded with 
Mrs Ps two initials followed by the trading as name of her business, whereas for correspondence purposes, her initials are recorded followed by her surname as I would 
expect. There is no evidence Mrs Ps names being mis-spelt in those records. 
did Mrs Ps customers experience problems paying into the Account?. 
 
I dont doubt some of Mrs Ps customers did encounter problems. And I thank Mrs P for 
sharing an exchange of correspondence from a customer to that effect. 
However, Ive seen no evidence to support the conclusion that this resulted from something 
The Co-op did wrong. In particular, having noted Mrs Ps belief - which is not supported by 
my finding - that the problems arose because without permission the bank changed the 
name on the Account.  
I note Mrs Ps testimony seems to point to the payment problems affecting her newer 
customers. This would seem to support the banks argument that this stems from the 
introduction of CoP and insufficient understanding of how it operated. 
Here I agree with the investigator that for the benefit of Mrs Ps customers, The Co-op could 
have done more to explain CoPs operation and, furthermore, that their failure to do so 
caused Mrs P some inconvenience. 
financial loss to Mrs Ps business
As noted above, Mrs P has told us she was unable to take advantage of a local authority 
grant because of scepticism regarding the authenticity of The Co-op on-line statements. 
Here also, I thank Mrs P for sharing a copy of an email she received from a local authority 
following her application for funding. It mentioned that the bank statements shed provided 
didnt meet the standards the local authority required. I note further that the local authority in 
question stated in fairly precise terms what Mrs P needed to provide by way of such 
statements. 
In light of the concerns expressed by the local authority, it isnt clear whether Mrs P 
approached the bank to see if it was able to provide statements in a form that the local 
authority would find satisfactory. That being said, theres no clear evidence Mrs P was not 
granted funding from that particular local authority solely because statements she presented 
in respect of the Account did not meet their requirements. 
But more to the point were not a regulator. So, its not for me as ombudsman to tell The Co-
op how to structure their on-line statements. That includes information that they ought to 
include in such statements so that they mirror those provided in similar statements from 
other banks. 
Compensation
Finally, having as noted above, the banks acknowledgement of poor service and its 
willingness to pay the additional £250 compensation to Mrs P on top of the £40 already paid, 
I now return to the question of whether that represents fair and reasonable compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to Mrs P.   
Regarding the BBL statements, Im pleased to see that The Co-op cooperated with the 
investigator to generate duplicate statements which have now been sent to Mrs P. But I find 
despite the fact that Mrs P made the bank aware she hadnt received such statements, this 
was only put right after the matter was referred to our service to investigate. I also note from Mrs Ps testimony that on occasions when phoning the bank, she 
encountered call wait times of up to one and half hours. 
Both are examples of poor service by the bank which has been acknowledged and I am 
satisfied Mrs P was inconvenienced as a result. I agree with the investigator also that the 
bank could have done more to better explain how its CoP worked. This in my opinion further 
added to the inconvenienced Mrs P experienced 
Putting things right
Although Ive not been persuaded Mrs P suffered any financial loss arising from these 
events, looking at these matters overall and for the reasons explained by the investigator, 
Im satisfied that £250, which is in addition to the £40 the bank has already paid Mrs P is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I 
recommend that The Co-operative Bank Plc, pays Mrs P £250 in full and final settlement of 
this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman