DRN-4066544
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC surrounding the
returning of a cheque.
What happened
Mr L issued a cheque to pay off his mortgage. But the cheque was returned unpaid because
the signature on the cheque didnt match the signature that Lloyds held for Mr L. Mr L
contacted Lloyds and asked for the cheque to be stopped and not re-presented, as he would
pay off his mortgage via an alternative channel, which he did later that day. However,
despite Mr Ls request, the cheque was re-presented by Lloyds which resulted in Mr L being
informed that his account was several thousand pounds overdrawn.
Mr L contacted Lloyds again and was told that the cheque would be returned unpaid again
as the signature issue remained unresolved. Mr L was also told the cheque would now be
stopped, to prevent it from re-presenting for a second time. But the cheque was re-presented
for a second time, meaning that Mr L received a further notification from Lloyds that his
account was again several thousand pounds overdrawn. This meant Mr L had to contact
Lloyds again, when he was told he needed to visit a Lloyds branch to get the issue resolved.
Mr L went to a Lloyds branch and was told that, despite his previous phone calls, no stop
had ever been placed on the cheque. It was then confirmed to Mr L that the cheque was now
stopped. But Mr L received a text message the next day advising that the cheque had been
returned unpaid. Mr L went back into branch where it was confirmed the cheque had already
been stopped and that he shouldnt have received the text message, which had been
generated in error. Mr L wasnt happy with what had happened, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ls complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by declining the
cheque as they had but accepted that Mr L hadnt received the standard of service he should
have received following the declining of the cheque. Lloyds apologised to Mr L for this and
offered to pay £60 as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. Mr L
wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Lloyds had
issued to Mr Ls complaint already represented a fair outcome to what happened. Mr L
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 March 2023 as follows:
Mr L is unhappy that Lloyds declined the cheque because of a non-matching 
signature and that Lloyds didnt contact him to verify the cheque rather than just 
declining it as they did. I can appreciate Mr Ls dissatisfaction in these regards. But 
its at Lloyds discretion as to whether theyre satisfied with the signature on a cheque 
of not. And it isnt for this service to instruct Lloyds to change their operational 
policies or processes. As such, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt act unfairly by declining 
the cheque because of the signature concerns it held.
Similarly, Im also satisfied that its at Lloyds discretion as to how they choose to act 
in response to a cheque being declined. And while I appreciate that Mr L would have 
liked Lloyds to have contacted him to verify the cheque before declining it, I dont feel 
that its unreasonable for Lloyds to have declined the cheque in the first instance as it 
did, given that it was felt that the signature on the cheque wasnt valid.
Lloyds have acknowledged that the service Mr L received following the declining of 
the cheque wasnt to a reasonable standard, and theyve apologised to Mr L for this 
and offered to make a payment of £60 to him as compensation for any trouble and 
upset he incurred. But I dont feel that Lloyds have fully appreciated the level of 
distress and inconvenience that the repeated instances of poor service had on Mr L 
here, and I dont feel that the £60 offer of compensation made by Lloyds to Mr L is 
fairly reflective of this impact.
I say this because Mr L had to contact Lloyds on several occasions, often after 
having been told on a previous occasion that the cheque would be stopped. And this 
culminated in Mr L having to visit a Lloyds branch on two occasions, following several 
prior phone calls. If Lloyds had stopped the cheque when Mr L first approached them 
about it, then I would almost certainly feel that the £60 compensation amount offered 
to Mr L was reasonable. But given the repeated infringements on Mr Ls time brought 
about by Lloyds failing to stop the cheque, I do feel that a higher amount of 
compensation is merited in this instance.
Accordingly, my provisional decision here is that I uphold this complaint in Mr Ls 
favour and that Lloyds must make a payment of £200 to Mr L, which I feel more fairly 
compensates Mr L for the upset and inconvenience hes incurred because of what 
happened here.
Lloyds have confirmed that theyre happy to accept my provisional decision, while Mr L said 
he felt the increased compensation amount of £200 was still a little low. Mr L also explained 
that he wanted Lloyds to pay a significant amount of compensation so that Lloyds would 
understand the seriousness of his complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling here. But it isnt for this service to fine or punish a 
business in any way. Rather, this service awards compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience a complainant has incurred regarding the events of their specific complaint. 
And, in this instance, I remain satisfied that £200 is a fair compensation amount for the 
trouble and frustration that Mr L has incurred here.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ls 
favour on the same basis as described in my provisional decision. And I therefore confirm 
that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment of £200 to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman