DRN-4222819
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited (BSCUL) recorded missed 
payments on his credit file.
What happened
In 2020 Mr K took out a loan with BSCUL. He says he told BSCUL he was experiencing 
some financial difficulty in November 2022, as he was off work caring for a family member. 
That meant the payments for the next two months would be late but hed settle the account 
after that. In response BSCUL applied a 30 day grace period to the account and agreed an 
underpayment plan  but said going into arrears could impact his credit file. 
No payment was made towards the loan in December 2022, and the January 2023 
instalment also wasnt received by the due date. Mr K made a payment on 31 January 2023, 
but Februarys instalment was missed  and no payment was received by Marchs due date. 
A partial payment was made on 3 March 2023, with the loan settled in full around a week 
after that. 
Mr K noticed that BSCUL had reported missed payments in February and March 2023 to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). He had started the process of getting a mortgage and 
was concerned the entries could affect the success of the application. So he contacted the 
lender to ask for the missed payment markers to be removed from his credit file. Mr K told 
BSCUL that Februarys payment had been missed due to a misunderstanding with his bank, 
resulting in the direct debit being cancelled. He also argued that BSCUL had a duty to 
remove the markers as the account had since been settled.
BSCUL said it was obliged to report accurate information to the CRAs  and given the 
payments for February and March 2023 werent made by the due dates, it felt the entries 
were an accurate reflection of how the account had been managed. Mr K raised a complaint, 
but BSCULs position remained unchanged. So he referred his concerns to our service.
Mr K told us that during the period in question he hadnt been in the right frame of mind to 
put money into the account, due to caring for sick family members  with one sadly passing 
away. So he didnt feel it was fair for BSCUL to record the missed payments on his credit file 
in the circumstances. Mr K also told us that BSCUL had since amended its reporting to show 
that the payments for January and February 2023 had been missed instead. 
One of our investigators reviewed everything and thought BSCUL had accurately reported 
how the account had been managed to the CRAs. So, the investigator didnt think he could 
fairly recommend that BSCUL amended the credit file entries, even though Mr K had 
undoubtedly been through a difficult period. Mr K didnt accept the investigators view, so the 
matter was passed to me for a final decision on the merits of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Its clear hes very invested in the 
matter, and I can understand why  so I know this decision will come as a great 
disappointment to him. But Ive had to set aside my natural feelings of sympathy for Mr Ks 
situation and focus on whether BSCUL should amend the information it has recorded on his 
credit file. I havent found there are grounds to fairly require that here  but hopefully the 
below explanation is at least helpful in understanding how I reached my outcome.  
The agreement says BSCUL will record whether payments have been received in full or on 
time to the CRAs  and the system contact note from November 2022 suggests Mr K was 
warned about the potential impact of having arrears on the account. The guiding principles 
for firms on reporting to the CRAs is set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
That guidance says the data reported must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to 
date. It also says that should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this 
will be recorded on your credit file. 
I appreciate Mr K went through a difficult period, and that meant he couldnt afford to make 
his regular payments. I also accept that his caring responsibilities were naturally a priority for 
him at this time. But BSCUL had to report the management of the account accurately to the 
CRAs, and Mr K was in contact with the lender throughout the period  so could have made 
payments on time if he had the funds. There are two missed payment entries on Mr Ks 
credit file, and the account didnt receive the full contractual monthly amount by the due date 
for either of those months. That payment history didnt change because the account was 
later settled  so whats been reported is accurate. BSCUL was also clear about the 
implications of having arrears on the account (both in the loan agreement and during the 
November 2022 call), and I consider acted fairly by applying a grace period before it started 
reporting any missed payments. 
So, overall, Im unable to say BSCUL has acted unreasonably in the circumstances  I also 
havent found grounds to fairly direct it to amend what was recorded. Mr K is free to post a 
notice of correction with the CRAs, explaining his situation at the time of the missed 
payments  so any lenders can take that into consideration during future applications.   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman