DRN-2264086
The complaint
Ms M says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1998.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
looking at the complaint. So to keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA France as the seller in my 
decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a Debenhams store card PPI policy which Ms M took out in 1998. 
She says the terms, conditions, cost and benefits were not explained to her. She says she 
didnt need PPI as she had good employee benefits. She was also under the impression it 
was compulsory as she hadnt been told it was optional.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms M disagrees, so her
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA France says the policy was sold to Ms M during a telephone call. And Ms M says she 
thought she had to have the PPI as she wasnt given the option. 
AXA France hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call or a copy of any notes 
taken at the time  this isnt surprising considering the sale took place many years ago. So I 
dont know how PPI was presented to Ms M or what was said during the phone call.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms M has told us  particularly that she did not know 
the policy was optional. But I also have to consider that because the sale took place so long 
ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken in to account what we know about how 
AXA France sold these policies around this time and everything weve seen in the past.
I think, on balance, its likely the AXA France representative would have followed a sale 
script and made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Ms M would have been asked for her 
consent to the cover. Ive not seen enough evidence to conclude otherwise. I also note that 
Ms M had applied for her card in the store before buying the PPI over a later telephone call. 
So it is likely she was aware the policy was optional.
Based on what Ive seen, I think AXA France probably did make it clear the policy was 
optional and Ms M chose to take it out.
AXA France didnt recommend the PPI policy to Ms M. So it didnt have to take steps to 
make sure the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Ms M enough information about 
the policy so she could decide if she wanted it. 
Its possible the information AXA France gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could 
have been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know about 
Ms Ms circumstances it looks like it could still have been useful to her. And I dont think 
better information would have stopped her buying it.
I say this because Ms M says she had no savings and would have received sick pay if she 
was off work. But the PPI policy would have paid 15% per month of the outstanding monthly 
balance for unemployment, accident or sickness. So it wouldve paid out in addition to any 
provisions she had and for longer. So I think Ms M could have found this policy useful should 
she have become unable to work or was unemployed. Theres nothing to show me Ms M 
couldnt afford the policy. And if she no longer wanted it she could have cancelled it at any 
time. Ive taken into account all Ms Ms comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
I also think she would not have been affected by any of the main things that might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which she was already aware. So I dont think better information would have stopped Ms M 
from buying the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman