DRN-3838515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 2006. The mortgage was taken out with another lender 
and later transferred to Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd (DHLL). The Mortgage Works (TMW) is 
the administrator of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs K complain that TMW wont consent to them taking out further secured 
borrowing (secured by a second charge on their property) which they need to pay for work to 
the property. They ask that it gives consent and compensates them for the delays. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K want to carry out work to their property. In mid-2021 they applied via a broker 
to a third-party lender for a secured loan to pay for this. They need consent from DHLL for 
the second charge on the property. As administrator of the mortgage, TMW dealt with the 
request on behalf of DHLL.
The request was declined. Mr and Mrs K say this is unfair and unreasonable. They point out 
they arent asking DHLL to provide additional borrowing: theyve been offered a secured loan 
by another lender. And the work will increase the value of their property, which they say will 
deteriorate if they cant borrow money to carry out repairs. 
Our investigator said TMW re-considered Mr and Mrs Ks request and instructed a valuation. 
Based on the valuers report, TMW declined to give consent saying the work wasnt essential 
and Mr and Mrs Ks application was outside its criteria. Our investigator said this wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable. But our investigator said Mr and Mrs K had been given conflicting 
information and the matter had gone on for longer than necessary before they were given 
correct information. The investigator said DHLL should pay compensation of £350 (in total), 
which it agreed to do.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They said if TMW had told them what criteria it would apply they 
wouldnt have asked it to re-consider and incur the cost of the valuation. They say their 
property was purposefully down-valued, as evidenced by a nearby property selling for more. 
And Mr and Mrs K say they met DHLLs criteria for residential mortgages and it wrongly 
applied criteria for buy to lets. When their broker questioned this, DHLL raised Mr Ks 
bankruptcy as another hurdle.
Mr and Mrs K said DHLL had already paid compensation of £125, and an additional £225 
wasnt enough for all their upset.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. I need to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances and explain why I reach my decision. Im not required to answer 
each point raised by Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K asked TMW for consent for a second charge on their property. They wanted to 
borrow £30,000 to pay for work to their property.
Initially, TMW declined consent for the second charge. Mr and Mrs K asked it to re-assess. 
TMW said it would re-consider, to assess whether it could consent on the basis the 
circumstances are exceptional. The underwriters said theyd need more information, 
including a valuation. TMW instructed a valuation, which was carried out in September 2021. 
The valuer valued the property at £275,000 and said the property was suitable security for 
mortgage purposes. No essential repairs were listed in the valuers report.
TMW again declined to give consent for the second charge. It said it didnt consider the work 
Mr and Mrs K wanted to do to be an essential repair, as the valuer said the property was 
suitable security with no works required. It said the additional borrowing would take the loan 
to value ratio over 50%, which was outside its criteria. It also said the conduct of the account 
was unsatisfactory as it was in arrears until 2019. And it said there might be cheaper ways 
for Mr and Mrs K to raise the funds.
Mr and Mrs K disagree with this. They say they met DHLLs criteria. They say their house is 
worth more than the valuation, so the additional borrowing wouldnt take them over the loan 
to value limit. They say arrears three years ago arent relevant. And Mr Ks bankruptcy was 
discharged some eight years ago. 
Mr and Mrs K say TMW is unreasonably withholding consent. They say it should apply the 
lending criteria of the original lender to the decision, not its own criteria. They say applying 
its own criteria is a change to the terms and conditions.
Was it reasonable for TMW to decline consent for the second charge?
The mortgage terms and conditions say unless you have our prior written consent or unless 
your offer says otherwiseyou must notagree to any other security on [the property]. The 
mortgage conditions say the lender will not unreasonably withhold its consent. And that the 
borrower agrees its not unreasonable for the lender to refuse consent if it might affect the 
lenders security or the value of the property.
Mr and Mrs K need consent from TMW before agreeing to a second charge on the property. 
Id expect TMW to have criteria about when it would  or wouldnt  give consent and to 
apply its criteria fairly to Mr and Mrs Ks request. All lenders are entitled to make a 
commercial decision about their lending criteria, and to change their criteria from time to 
time. I think its reasonable for TMW to apply DHLLs criteria when dealing with the 
mortgage, rather than a previous lenders criteria. While Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was taken 
out with another lender, it is now owned by DHLL. 
TMW sent a copy of its criteria (which also applies to DHLL) to us, in confidence. Lending 
criteria can be commercially sensitive so I wouldnt expect TMW to provide its criteria to Mr 
and Mrs K. However, TMW told Mr and Mrs K it declined their request because the 
additional borrowing would take the loan to value ratio over 50% and this is consistent with 
its criteria. 
A member of staff at TMW sent an email to Mr and Mrs Ks broker in November 2021 setting 
out criteria (under the heading residential) which would have been easier for Mr and Mrs K 
to meet. Mr and Mrs K are upset that TMW didnt apply these criteria to their request, but I 
cant fairly require it do so. Weve asked TMW about the email and it said that these arent 
the criteria that apply to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage. TMW said it applied the correct criteria to 
Mr and Mrs Ks application. As I said, this is consistent with the copy of TMWs criteria 
provided to us.Mr and Mrs K say when the valuer arrived at their property he assumed hed be carrying out 
a survey for a buy to let property and they had to explain this wasnt the case. Mr and Mrs K 
say the valuer wasnt interested in the information they offered about the sale of a nearby 
house or the work they wanted to carry out. And Mr and Mrs K say the date on the report is 
incorrect by a few days. I understand their frustration about this. Ultimately though, its clear 
the valuer knew it was a residential mortgage and hed have been able to assess whether 
repairs were necessary regardless of whether the property was residential or to be let. It 
seems unlikely the incorrect date had any effect on the valuers conclusions. 
TMW considered whether it could consent to the second charge, despite this being outside 
its criteria. I think this was fair. However, TMW didnt consider the work Mr and Mrs K want 
to do to the property to be essential, to prevent detriment to its security. This, and the poor 
conduct of the account in the past, meant it declined to give consent to the second charge 
outside its criteria. 
Mr and Mrs K described the work they want to do and sent photos of the property. But they 
didnt provide evidence from a suitably qualified third party, such as a surveyor, that the work 
was an essential repair. I dont think, based on the available evidence, I can fairly find it was 
unreasonable for TMW to rely on the valuers opinion about the value of the property or 
whether work was essential. 
TMW still had a record of Mr Ks bankruptcy, which had been discharged in 2014. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs K were upset about this. However, TMW provided evidence of the 
decision made by its underwriters. The underwriters reviewed the position after receiving 
evidence of the bankruptcy discharge and made the same decision (to decline consent). I 
dont think the initial or later decision to decline consent for a second charge would have 
been different, even if TMW hadnt had a record of Mr Ks bankruptcy.
Im satisfied that the reason TMW declined consent for a second charge was because the 
secured loan would have taken the loan to value over the limit in its criteria. And Im also 
satisfied that it was reasonable for TMW to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer. I think it 
was fair for TMW to consider whether Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances would make it fair to 
give consent despite this being outside its criteria, and that it was fair for it to take into 
account the conduct of the account, the equity in the property and the necessity of the 
proposed work to the property when doing so. Ultimately, TMW had to balance the necessity 
for work to the property (funded by a second charge loan) against the possible negative 
effect of a second charge on its security. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed, 
but I dont think TMW was unfair when it declined consent for the second charge.
Did TMW deal with the request for consent in a timely manner?
TMW agreed its service had been poor at times and paid compensation. It agreed with our 
investigators recommendation that it pay £350 (in total) for giving Mr and Mrs K conflicting 
information and taking too long to give them correct information.
Mr and Mrs K dont consider this is enough, for their trouble and upset. And they say that if 
theyd been told the criteria at the outset they wouldnt have incurred the valuation fee. 
Its unfortunate theres has been so much confusion about the criteria that TMW applied (or 
that Mr and Mrs K think it should have applied). But I must take into account that TMW told 
Mr and Mrs K at the outset their request was declined. When Mr and Mrs K asked TMW to 
re-consider they must reasonably have known it was possible that consent wouldnt be 
given. They agreed to pay the valuation fee on this basis. 
I think it was reasonable for TMW to ask for information  including a report and valuation of the property  to assist it in making a decision. This inevitably meant matters went on for 
longer. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ks frustration. They have equity in their property, they cleared their 
previous arrears and another lender assessed the additional loan as affordable. Mr and 
Mrs K want to make improvements to their property, and are upset that TWM didnt give 
consent to the second charge so they can borrow money to pay for this. But, as I said, TMW 
re-considered Mr and Mrs Ks request and I think it did so fairly. I dont think in the 
circumstances I can fairly require TMW to give consent or pay compensation for Mr and 
Mrs Ks disappointment or any costs they incurred as a result of it declining to give consent. 
TMW agreed to pay compensation of £350 (in total) for not providing a good service and 
giving Mr and Mrs K clear information at times. I think for the additional upset caused by this, 
compensation of £350 (in total) is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd to pay £350 
(in total) to Mr and Mrs K. It can deduct any compensation it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman