DRN-3050862
The complaint
 Miss C complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent her a loan she couldnt afford.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
L2G lent Miss C a loan of £600 in June 2019, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oL2G says it carried out checks before agreeing to lend. It says it asked about Miss 
Cs income and expenditure. It says it also carried out a credit check. It says after it 
had assessed affordability it could see Miss C could afford the loan repayments. 
oFrom what I can see, the credit check it had in front of it had some adverse credit 
information on it including a default, payments in arrears and a balance on a credit 
card that was over the agreed limit. So, I think when it saw this, L2G ought to have 
carried out further checks to find out more about all this and assure itself that Miss C 
could afford this loan in a sustainable way. L2G says that it verified Miss Cs income 
and expenditure before it lent to her, but I cant see that it did this and so I dont think 
its checks went far enough.
oMiss C has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from L2G at the time of the loan as I 
think her bank statements provide a clear picture about his actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, around the time L2G granted Miss C 
this loan, Miss C was having problems managing her finances. She was regularly in 
her overdraft and I can see in the two months leading up to L2G granting this loan, 
Miss C had accrued fees for unauthorised overdraft usage. L2G would have already 
seen in the credit search results that she was in arrears on a credit card account. The 
bank account statements would have done little to reassure it that she was able to 
meet her commitments when they fell due. When I look further into what is given in 
the statements, I can see that she took out another short-term loan not long before 
she applied for this one. So, potentially she would have three short term loans all 
running concurrently with a combined credit repayment of over 25% of her monthly 
income. When I also consider that she was incurring overdraft fees and charges 
along with credit card repayments and a default balance to repay, I cant see that the 
repayments were sustainable over the 18-month term of this loan. 
oSufficient checks by L2G would have shown that Miss C couldnt afford this loan. In 
the circumstances, L2G lent to Miss C when it shouldnt have, and it needs to put 
things right.
  
Putting things right
While I think L2G shouldnt have lent to Miss C, I think it will be fair for her to repay the 
capital of £600 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, L2G should:
add up all the payments made by Miss C, if it exceeds the capital amount of £600, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Miss C, remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss C credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above.
L2G must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and I direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman