DRN-3818261
The complaint
Mrs T says that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (who Ill refer to as 
Tesco) unfairly declined her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to a timeshare product she was sold.
Mrs T has made a claim on behalf of herself and her husband, but because the credit was in 
Mrs Ts sole name, Ill refer only to her in this decision. I mean no disrespect to her husband 
when doing so.
What happened
In February 2015 (the Time of Sale) Mrs T entered into a timeshare agreement with a 
company Ill call E. The agreement gave her rights to accommodation at a hotel in Malta 
and also provided access to an international exchange scheme that Ill call D. Mrs T paid a 
£1,000 deposit using her credit card.
In October 2019 her representatives made a claim to Tesco on her behalf. They said that 
Tesco were jointly liable for any claim Mrs T may have against the supplier and that the 
supplier had misrepresented the agreement. In particular they explained that:
The timeshare was sold as an investment but wasnt one.
Mrs T was promised she could sell the timeshare back.
Mrs T was told thered be plenty of availability, but shed been unable to make any 
bookings.
The timeshare would increase in value.
That Mrs T hadnt been able to access the international exchange with D.
That she wasnt given key information required by the Timeshare Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010.
Mrs Ts representatives also said Mrs T had a valid claim under s140A of the CCA.
Tesco didnt uphold Mrs Ts claim. They didnt think she had been able to provide evidence 
of misrepresentation. 
So, Mrs T referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
couldnt find evidence in the paperwork that E had promised to be able to resell the 
timeshare themselves, or that holidays could be booked at any time or were being sold as an 
investment. He didnt think there was evidence the agreement had been misrepresented to 
Mrs T and he couldnt find any evidence there had been an unfair relationship. So, he didnt 
think it was fair to ask Tesco to take any action.
Mrs T and her representatives disagreed. They reiterated some of the misrepresentations 
they said had been made and said that we could consider the timeshare agreement as it 
was a linked agreement. They explained that the Timeshare Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 dictated that certain key information needed to be 
supplied to the consumer for the duration of the sales presentation, but that it wasnt. They 
said that no benefits were conferred on Mrs T as a result of her signing up for the timeshare 
as the same holidays could be booked by anyone through a regular travel agent. They also 
expanded on why they thought there was an unfair relationship and explained that a £200 
discount was only available if a deposit was taken at the presentation. They said that was a 
clear breach of a provision of the Timeshare Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010.
Mrs T therefore asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take 
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; 
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an 
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I 
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the 
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made 
when I set out my final decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in full or in part, with a credit card, 
as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
CCA says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a right 
to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mrs T may have under sections 75 or 140A 
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether Tesco have been 
reasonable rejecting her claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
If Mrs T was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why she entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her. In those circumstances I may think Tesco were unreasonable not to 
uphold a claim under section 75.I understand that many of the misrepresentations Mrs T says were made, are claimed to 
have been provided in the timeshare presentation she attended. Theres little, if any, direct 
testimony surrounding the allegations in question  like when the representations were 
made, by who and in what context. And, as misrepresentations are false statements of fact 
or law, without that important colour and context its difficult to determine whether, what was 
allegedly said could have been an actual misrepresentation. Its understandable that its not 
been possible to provide a copy of that presentation. But when considering if those 
misrepresentations are likely to have been made, I have been able to review copies of the 
documentation that was provided and the purchase agreement.
Ive not found evidence in that documentation or in Mrs Ts testimony, that the timeshare 
was sold as an investment or that any promise was made that it would increase in value. 
Theres also no mention of E agreeing to resell the timeshare if required. Indeed the 
Summary Schedule and Customer Compliance form only says:
1. We understand that our agreementpermits us to sell through a third party
Theres no mention of being able to sell through E and I note that the supplier referred Mrs T 
to a number of third-party sales platforms when she enquired about selling the timeshare. 
That was in accordance with the point of sale paperwork.
I can understand that a consumer would expect to be able to book accommodation under 
the agreement. Theres no guarantee of availability in the documentation and whilst Mrs T 
says she was unable to use her weeks because of availability issues, I note in her email to 
the supplier in August 2017 she said:
You may or may not be aware we have never taken up our free weeks for the past two 
years mainly due to personal circumstances. As these circumstances are unlikely to change 
we wish to sell our investment back
I think thats at odds with the suggestion Mrs T had found limited availability. It seems, on 
that basis, that the reason she wasnt able to book accommodation was more likely to be 
because of her personal circumstances.
If Mrs T had been unable to book accommodation I would expect to have seen considerably 
more communication with the supplier about that issue. So, Im not persuaded the 
agreement was misrepresented to her on that basis.
Theres no dispute that the agreement included access to an international exchange (D). 
Mrs T emailed the supplier in August 2015 and said:
we were told at the presentation that you would help us in booking a holiday. We have had 
no dealings yet with DAE (D here  my edit). Could someone please contact us regarding 
the procedure we need to follow in a booking a holiday.
Mrs T says she didnt hear back from the supplier, but I dont think that demonstrates that 
thered been a misrepresentation. The email was sent to an address that hasnt been 
included in other examples of correspondence, so its unclear whether it was received by the 
supplier and that could explain the lack of response. And even if the supplier did receive the 
email and didnt respond, I dont think that suggests Mrs T couldnt access D, as the 
agreement had promised. Mrs T had merely explained she needed help with the procedure; 
she didnt say she couldnt make a booking or that bookings werent available when she had 
been promised otherwise at the time of sale. And, as Ive not been provided with any further 
communication on that issue, I think its fair to assume Mrs T was subsequently able to access bookings or that she chose not to. Ive searched for D on the internet and can see 
that although its now changed names, it appears accessible.
Mrs Ts representatives have suggested that the agreement offered no benefit as the same 
holidays could be booked by anyone through a regular travel agent. Ive not been provided 
with any evidence that was the case and I cant see that the agreement or literature makes 
that claim. 
Mrs Ts representatives have also suggested the supplier breached the implied terms of the 
contract with Mrs T because they didnt carry out their responsibilities with reasonable care 
and skill. Section 13 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 says that:
there is an implied term that the supplier will carry out the service with reasonable care 
and skill.
Its Mrs Ts representatives suggestion that as they say Mrs T was incorrectly advised on 
the resale of her agreement, and on the timeshare being an investment, this demonstrates 
that the supplier hadnt acted with reasonable care and skill. But, as Ive not found sufficient 
evidence the supplier misrepresented the re-sale options or that they had sold the timeshare 
as an investment, I dont agree there is sufficient evidence the supplier hadnt used 
reasonable care or skill.
So, Im not persuaded that there was a misrepresentation or a breach of contract here and I 
dont therefore think Tesco have been unreasonable to reject Mrs Ts claim under section 
75.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations between 
Mrs T and E or the credit broker are deemed to have been conducted by E or the credit 
broker as an agent of Tesco. This includes any representations made by E or the credit 
broker and any other dealings between them. So, the pre-contractual acts or omissions of E 
or the credit broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of Tesco, and this may be taken 
into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mrs T and 
Tesco.
If Mrs T wasnt provided with all the information she needed to make an informed decision 
that would have been capable of creating an imbalance in knowledge, such that there was 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
Mrs Ts representatives have explained that relevant legislation (under The Timeshare, 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010) required E to give Mrs 
T key information in good time before she entered into the purchase agreement. Theyve 
explained that key information was provided too late and that created an unfair relationship. 
Its their suggestion that the information was provided but only at the end of the sales 
presentation.
As Ive not been provided with a copy of the presentation Mrs T attended its not possible for 
me to be sure when the key information was provided, and Im therefore not persuaded there 
has been a breach of Regulation 12 of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. But even if there was a breach the fact that the 
purchase agreement may have been/may be unenforceable under Regulation 15 is unlikely 
to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair because I cant see why the unenforceability 
of the purchase agreement against Mrs T would be to her disadvantage. Mrs Ts representatives also say that a £200 discount was only available if a deposit was 
taken at the presentation. They said that was a clear breach of a provision of the Timeshare 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. I dont agree that 
there is evidence that was the case. I say that because Ive seen a copy of a letter sent on 
23 February 2015 from E to Mr and Mrs T. That letter says:
If the balanceis received by no later than 2015-03-22 the amount payable will be 
GBP6,700 and not GBP6,900
So, it seems Mrs T was given a month in which to make payment and benefit from the £200 
discount, and I dont think there is evidence she was unduly pressured to take up that offer in 
such a way as to create an unfair relationship.
Mrs Ts representative has also explained that Mrs T was 73 when the agreement was made 
and would therefore have been 89 when the agreement ended. Theyve not explained why 
this would create an unfair relationship, a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and Im 
not persuaded it does.
Ultimately I havent seen anything to suggest Tesco have been unreasonable when rejecting 
Mrs Ts claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman