DRN-2730186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
mishandled a claim on a light goods vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
According to the policy schedule from August 2019, Mr S was the policyholder. Mrs S and 
their daughter were named drivers.
On about 23 September 2019 their daughter was following a tractor and trailer loaded with 
bales. The bales hit a tree, causing part of it to fall and damage the bonnet of Mr Ss vehicle.
NFU said it wasnt intending to hold the third party tractor driver liable. In November 2019, 
Mr and Mrs S complained to NFU that it wasnt treating them fairly.
By a final response letter dated 2 December 2019, NFU turned down the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs S brought their complaint to us in early February 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
NFU made the decision to settle the claim fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
The third party hit the branch, causing it to fall onto their vehicle.
That must be negligence as it would constitute driving without due care & attention to 
other road and pedestrian users.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its usual practice for an insurer which has made an outlay to record a fault claim against its 
policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full  usually from the insurer of a third 
party. 
So a fault claim doesnt necessarily imply criticism of anyones driving. There may be 
various other reasons why an insurer doesnt recover its outlay. 
Like most motor insurance policies, NFUs contained a term allowing it to decide how to deal 
with a claim involving a third party. The term was as follows:
Control of Claims
WE are entitled to:
receive all necessary information and assistance from YOU or anyone else 
insured under this policy;
take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. WE will do this 
in YOUR name, or in the name of anyone else who is insured by the policy;
take proceedings to recover any amount WE have paid or are due to pay 
under the policy. WE will do this for OUR benefit and at OUR expense, but 
using YOUR name or the name of anyone else who is insured by the policy.
The effect of that term is that  on a question of a third partys liability  NFUs view would 
prevail over the view of Mr and Mrs S and their daughter.
I will consider whether NFU applied that term fairly. Unlike a court, we dont hear from each 
of the drivers and decide the extent to which one of them was responsible for causing 
damage.
From what they say, NFU arranged repair of Mr and Mrs Ss vehicle. Mr and Mrs S have 
said they had to pay an excess.
NFU was the insurer of the third party as well as the insurer of Mr S. I have no reason to 
doubt Mr and Mrs Ss statement that an NFU employee made a comment that the tree was 
at fault. And NFU has said there is no call recording. However, I dont find that NFU was 
biased against Mr and Mrs S or in favour of the third party.
In a situation where both drivers were insured with NFU, I would expect the insurer to 
appoint different claims-handlers to act as advocates for each of them.
From its file, Im satisfied that NFU did so.
I consider that NFU accepted Mr and Mrs Ss report of the incident. It noted the nature and 
location of the damage to Mr Ss vehicle.
NFU weighed up the prospects of success if Mr and Mrs Ss claim went to a court trial. NFU 
decided that the prospects of success didnt justify the cost and risk of a trial. So it wouldnt 
pursue the claim against the third party  or fund such a claim under Mr Ss motor legal 
protection. 
I appreciate that NFUs decision has already had an adverse financial effect for Mr S and 
Mrs S. Compared to the August 2019 schedule, the August 2020 schedule shows that no-
claims discount has been stepped-back from 9 years to 5 years and the premium has gone 
up from about £265.00 to about £337.00.
Nevertheless, I keep in mind the policy term to which Ive referred, I cant say that NFUs 
decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct NFU to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman