DRN-3061633
The complaint
Mr K complains about interest charged to a credit card he holds with Metro Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr K noticed that interest had been charged to his credit card for several months when he 
didnt think it shouldve been and so complained to Metro.
Metro looked into what happened and said that interest had been applied correctly as only 
the minimum payment had been made to the account for those months, so the outstanding 
balance accrued interest. Mr K said this wasnt right as he paid the full balance each month 
by direct debit. Metro didnt agree to refund the interest saying it had been charged correctly. 
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They agreed that a direct debit was in place to pay 
the full outstanding balance of the credit card each month with a payment from Mr Ks 
current account. However they said that in May 2020 there were insufficient funds in Mr Ks 
current account to pay the full outstanding balance so Metro took the minimum payment 
instead. The same thing happened in June, July and August until Mr K repaid the balance in 
full in September. 
Mr K said that Metro shouldve told him they had only taken the minimum payment and if 
theyd done so he wouldve transferred money to cover the full payment and not been 
charged interest. Because Mr K remained unhappy this complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed by all that in May, June, July and August 2020 there were insufficient funds in 
Mr Ks current account to take the full outstanding balance of his credit card. Because of this 
Metro took the minimum payment due. Mr K says that Metro shouldve told him about this 
and I can see why he says that. However I have to consider if Metro acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions. And looking at what happened I think they did.
Mr K says that he used to receive paper statements and didnt agree for that to stop. 
Because he didnt receive paper statements Mr K says that he didnt know what was 
happening with his account.  Metro explained they stopped sending paper statements some 
time ago and they have no record of Mr K asking for paper statements to continue. 
Metro provides online and mobile app access for Mr Ks accounts which can be checked at 
any time. So whilst Mr K might prefer paper statements Im happy that Metro provides other 
ways to access account information. I cant say with any certainty that Mr K agreed to stop 
receiving paper statements. But with account information being accessible in other ways I 
think Metro has acted fairly in providing Mr K with access to his accounts.
The direct debit Mr K had set up was for the full outstanding balance of his credit card but 
because there were insufficient funds in his current account Metro took the minimum 
payment instead. Whilst Metro didnt notify Mr K of this directly, the information was available 
for him to see on his monthly credit card statements. So whilst it might have helped Mr K if 
he was told more directly, I think the statements made him sufficiently aware of what had 
happened. 
I also think its important to say that the other option available to Metro when there were 
insufficient funds in Mr Ks current account was to return the direct debit unpaid. This 
wouldve meant that no payment was applied to the credit card and more interest wouldve 
been applied. Also Metro could then have applied an unpaid payment marker on his credit 
file for that month. Its also likely Mr K wouldve been charged an unpaid payment fee on his 
credit card and maybe also an unpaid direct debit fee on his current account. So looking at 
things overall I think taking the minimum payment was the most beneficial option.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Metro acted fairly and 
reasonably when taking the minimum payment and also when applying interest charges to 
Mr Ks credit card. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman