DRN-3317793
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice and level of assistance provided to him by Union 
Reiseversicherung AG (URV) under his travel insurance policy when he experienced a 
medical emergency abroad. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr T held a Backpacker & Longstay travel insurance policy, provided by URV.
Unfortunately, Mr T was injured in an accident abroad. He was taken to hospital, where he
was diagnosed with a fracture. He was advised to have a follow up appointment with a
consultant in one week to ten days time, and physiotherapy.
Mr T sent URV an email about his accident while he was at the hospital. The following 
month, 19 days after his accident, URV authorised Mr T to see a consultant. By this time, a
physiotherapy appointment abroad for Mr T had already been cancelled. And, as Mr T had
asked about returning to the UK for treatment because his follow-up treatment abroad hadnt
been authorised, URV said he could return to the UK at his own cost to have the treatment
there.
Mr T arranged and paid for a flight back to the UK, where he underwent surgery and
physiotherapy. He resumed his trip approximately two months later, on flights arranged and
paid for by URV.
Mr T complained to URV. URV reimbursed Mr T the money hed paid for his medical
expenses abroad, as well as for his return flight and transfers to the UK. URV acknowledged
that there had been a delay in communicating with Mr T, and that it hadnt provided clear
information or support to him. So, URV offered to pay Mr T £750 compensation as an
apology for the service it had provided.
As Mr T remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought URVs offer of
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr T didnt agree with our
investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me. I made my provisional decision 
about Mr Ts complaint in January 2022. In it, I said:
As I understand it, Mr T has now been reimbursed for the medical expenses he incurred
abroad following the accident, as well as for his flight and transfers back to the UK. And,
URV has told us that subsequent medical bills incurred by Mr T after he resumed his trip
have also been settled. Therefore, the issue which remains for me to decide is what level of
compensation I think is appropriate for the impact of URVs actions on Mr T in this case.
Longstanding industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say
that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and provide reasonable guidance to
help a policyholder make a claim, and provide appropriate information on its progress.
Further regulatory guidance says that firms should pay due regard to the interests of their
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive taken these rules and guidance into account when deciding what I think is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts case. Ive also taken into account the terms and
conditions of Mr Ts insurance policy with URV, which set out URVs obligations to him in the
event of a medical emergency abroad.
Mr Ts policy says URV will pay for customary and reasonable fees or charges for
necessary and emergency treatment to be paid for outside your home country for medical,
surgical, hospital nursing home or nursing services.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ts further appointments with a consultant and with a
physiotherapist were medically necessary. So, what I think should have happened in this
case was that URV should have authorised this treatment within a reasonable period of time
after Mr T was seen in hospital abroad, so he could have had his follow-up treatment abroad
 thereby continuing with his trip.
Mr Ts accident occurred on the 18th of the month. But, according to URVs notes, it didnt
receive the documents it needed from Mr T to properly assess the claim until the 28th of the
month. So, Im satisfied that this initial 10-day delay was outside of URVs control.
However, when URV did receive the information it needed, it didnt review this until four days
later. At that point, URV noted on Mr Ts claims file that the follow-up treatment that had
been recommended abroad was medically appropriate. But the earliest confirmation Ive
seen from URV to Mr T that this treatment was covered under his policy was a further five
days later  a total of nine days after URV had received the necessary documentation from
Mr T.
I think this nine-day delay by URV was unreasonable and excessive in the circumstances. I
also note that URV didnt communicate with Mr T as Id have expected it to in between his
attendance at hospital and the treatment authorisation being communicated to him, with Mr
T and one of his family members having to repeatedly chase URV for updates.
In the days that followed, Mr T was given what I think was incorrect information by URV
about his entitlements under his policy. URV outlined Mr Ts options as being to either
continue with non-urgent treatment abroad (with URV incorrectly saying this wouldnt be
covered by his insurance) or to return to the UK at his own cost for NHS treatment.
At the time of outlining these options to Mr T, URV had already noted and communicated to
Mr T that his further treatment had been authorised under the policy as medically necessary.
So, what I think URV should have told Mr T was that he could remain abroad and have the
treatment he needed there, and that this treatment would be covered under his insurance
policy.
Instead, because of a combination of URVs delays and the incorrect information hed been
provided with, Mr T took matters into his own hands and arranged and paid for a return flight
back to the UK in order to have treatment there. I think this was an understandable and
reasonable course of action for Mr T to take in the circumstances, and Im satisfied he
wouldnt have incurred either the initial cost or the inconvenience of interrupting his trip were
it not for URVs actions in this case.
URV has suggested that some of the confusion surrounding Mr Ts policy coverage wascaused by queries around extending the return home allowance of 21 days. However, if
URV had confirmed Mr Ts entitlement to treatment abroad (thereby allowing him to remain
abroad), as I think it should have done, then any such confusion would have been avoided.
So, overall, I dont think URV provided Mr T with a reasonable level of assistance and/or
support during his claim, in a situation where Mr T was injured  and understandably
concerned about his policy coverage - abroad. URV didnt communicate with Mr T about his
claim in the way Id have expected it to and, as a result of returning to the UK unnecessarily,
Mr T lost around two months of his trip. Im satisfied that these issues caused Mr T a
considerable level of distress, inconvenience and frustration and I dont think the £750 which
URV has offered fairly compensates Mr T for this.
I understand Mr T feels it would have cost URV more money if it had paid for his follow-up
treatment abroad. But URVs potential cost exposure if it had handled Mr Ts claim differently
isnt something I can take into account when making an award of compensation. And, I have
no power to make a punitive award against URV. Instead, I can only make an award for what
I think the impact of URVs actions were on Mr T.
URV subsequently reimbursed Mr T for the cost of his transfers and flight back to the UK
(and paid for his flight to return abroad)  but Mr T had to go to the unnecessary trouble and
initial expense of arranging the flights back to the UK himself. I understand Mr T continued to
pay rent abroad during the time he was back in the UK and, while Mr T would always had to
have paid this rent abroad, Ive taken into account the fact that he was obtaining no benefit
from this during the time he was in the UK. Mr T has also told us he had to pay rent in the
UK for the two months during which he unnecessarily returned  an expense he wouldnt
otherwise have incurred were it not for URVs actions.
Ive taken all of these factors, as well as the inconvenience and distress caused by the
interruption to Mr Ts trip, into account when deciding what level of compensation I think is
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Overall, having had regard to our published guidance on the payment of compensation for
distress and inconvenience, I think a total award of £2,000 would be fair and reasonable
compensation in the circumstances.
URV responded to my provisional decision and said it didnt agree that the circumstances of 
Mr Ts case warranted an award of £2,000 compensation. URV referred to guidance 
published on our website outlining examples of situations where awards of compensation at 
this level might be appropriate and said this incident hadnt impacted Mr Ts life for a 
sustained period of time. However, URV said it agreed the incident had affected Mr T and 
increased its offer of compensation from £750 to £1,500.
Mr T said he didnt wish to accept URVs increased offer. In response to my provisional 
decision, Mr T sent us emails from URV dated April 2020 which, he said, demonstrated that 
URV tried to force him to return from his trip due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what URV has said about the level of compensation awarded in my 
provisional decision. However, I specifically stated that this award didnt just include the 
inconvenience and distress experienced by Mr T. It also takes into account certain elements 
of financial loss, which I thought it was most appropriate to compensate Mr T for within the overall award. These losses are the money which Mr T continued to pay for rent abroad 
which he derived no benefit from, and the additional rent which he paid in the UK during the 
two months he unnecessarily returned. 
The emails which Mr T sent in response to my provisional decision dont have any relevance 
to the outcome of this complaint, which is about the events that took place in 2019 following 
Mr Ts medical emergency only. If Mr T is unhappy about what happened in April 2020, hed 
need to complain directly to URV in the first instance before this service would have the 
power to look into the matter. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that a total award of £2,000 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
URV must pay Mr T a total of £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. This includes the offers that have already been made. 
URV must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr T accepts 
this final decision, and if it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of this final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman