DRN-3517985
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains Accelerant Insurance Limited turned down a claim it made 
on its public liability insurance policy.
What happened
G operates a soft play centre for children. In August 2020 a child was injured while using the 
play frame at the centre. A personal injury claim was made against G. It sought assistance 
under its public liability policy. Accelerant turned the claim down in November 2020. It said 
the policy contained a condition requiring an annual inspection of the play frame at least 
once in every 12 month period. That hadnt happened and it thought this increased the risk 
of loss to it. 
G accepted an inspection hadnt been carried out prior to the incident but said an inspection 
in October 2020 hadnt found any significant defects. It provided evidence of repair work 
carried out to the play frame prior to the incident and said a Health and Safety Executive 
inspection didnt find any problems. So it didnt think the risk to Accelerant had increased 
because an earlier inspection wasnt carried out. 
Our investigator accepted the inspection that was carried out didnt find significant defects. 
However, he noted this was around two months after the accident happened. In any case 
the potential loss to the insurer was having to cover the claim that had been made against G. 
And he thought the absence of a pre accident inspection report did impact on its ability to 
defend that claim. He thought it was fair of Accelerant to turn down the claim because the 
condition hadnt been complied with. 
G didnt agree. It said even if there had been an inspection it wouldnt have made a 
difference as the accident happened when the claimant child collided with another child. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Gs policy. I can see the policy contains an 
endorsement which says: 
Children's Indoor Play Frame / Play Equipment Inspection Condition 
It is a condition precedent to Our liability under Section 6 - Public Liability that;
a) an inspection has been undertaken by a Register of Play Inspectors International 
(RPII) approved play specialist or The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents 
(RoSPA) and the inspection is undertaken at least once in every 12 month period 
thereafter and a completion certificate issued to You; 
b) any work or remedial action specified on the said certificate(s) is to be carried out 
within the timescales specified (where this is not possible the play equipment must 
be removed from use and/or cordoned off until such works or remedial action has 
been undertaken);
c) a copy of the said inspection certificate must be must be retained by
You and made available for Us upon request. Unless agreed otherwise in writing by 
Us.
In this case G accepts it didnt have an inspection carried out by an approved person in the 
previous 12 month period (I understand this wasnt done at any time since the policy started 
because G didnt realise this was required). So it hasnt complied with the terms of its policy.
However, the Insurance Act 2015 says an insurer cant turn down a claim on the basis of 
non-compliance with a term (including a condition precedent) if the policyholder is able to 
show the non-compliance couldnt have increased the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred, in the circumstances in which it did. That applies to conditions which relate to a 
particular type of loss or a loss at a particular location or time. I think that would apply to the 
condition requiring an inspection to be carried out and Accelerant hasnt said it doesnt. 
Ive thought about what that means for the claim G made. The policy covers damages (as 
well as costs and expenses) G becomes legally liable to pay following accidental injury to 
any person. So the loss to Accelerant would be covering the damages (and other costs and 
expenses) arising out of the personal injury claim made against G. 
Gs position is the injury to the child was caused by it colliding with another child (rather than 
any problem with the equipment at the centre). So it doesnt think an inspection report is 
relevant to what happened. And I appreciate theres a dispute over how the injury to the child 
was sustained. But the claim against it says the Claimant child was playing inside of the 
children's play area when he slipped on the stairs, fell and cut his head on a cable tie which 
was attached to the soft play and netting. I note a local authority inspection report following 
the incident then made recommendations in relation to cable ties. 
And the claim form alleges the accident was caused by a breach of a duty of care and / or 
negligence on the part of G. Amongst other points it alleges G failed to take any or any 
reasonable care to see that the Claimant would be safe in using the premises as a visitor 
and failed to institute or enforce any or any adequate system for the inspection, cleaning, 
repair and maintenance of the premises. I think having an accredited safety inspection 
report would likely have assisted in providing a defence against these allegations. 
G has referenced the inspection it did have carried out and the repair work that had 
previously been done. But I think its reasonable to say an inspection report carried out 
around two months after the accident took place carries less evidential weight than a report 
which satisfies the terms of the policy. And the company which carried out the repair work 
accepted any comments they made werent based on an RPII qualification. 
That doesnt of course mean it wouldnt have been possible to defend the claim. And I 
understand why G doesnt believe the incident happened as described by the claimant. 
However, I think its reasonable to conclude Gs case would have been stronger if it had 
been able to provide a pre incident safety report from an approved person. Given the 
allegations that were made I think the absence of that report is likely, on the face of it, to 
have increased the risk of loss to Accelerant. And its for G as the policyholder to show that 
wasnt the case. For the reasons Ive explained I dont think its done that. So I dont think 
Accelerant acted unfairly in turning down the claim it made. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman