DRN-2917086
The complaint
Mr K complains Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his home insurance policy, 
and in turn, incorrectly refused to consider his claim following a break-in at his home.
What happened
Mr K held a home insurance policy with Fairmead that was due to renew at the end of 
April 2019. This policy wasnt auto renewable, so Mr K needed to proactively pay his 
premiums before the renewal date if he still wanted the policy.
Shortly after Mr Ks policy was due to renew, he contacted Fairmead as the incorrect 
address was on his policy documents. Fairmead updated Mr Ks address and sent him new 
policy documents with the correct address details.
In early January 2020, Mr K called Fairmead to make a claim following a break-in. Fairmead 
explained Mr Ks policy had been cancelled because he hadnt paid his premiums, and 
because of this they couldnt consider his claim. Mr K disagreed this was the case and 
raised a complaint.
Fairmead looked into Mr Ks concerns and issued their final response, just over three weeks 
later. In this they explained they hadnt received Mr Ks premiums despite sending him a 
renewal letter and a reminder about the renewal. They also mentioned Mr K hadnt provided 
proof of payment despite their request for this information, so they felt his policy had been 
cancelled correctly. While they didnt agree theyd done anything wrong regarding the 
cancellation, Fairmead accepted they hadnt returned calls as Mr K had expected. They 
apologised for this mistake and offered Mr K £40 for the inconvenience this caused. Mr K 
remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt Mr Ks complaint should upheld. He agreed the evidence suggested 
Mr K hadnt paid his premiums, so Fairmead hadnt acted unreasonably when they cancelled 
the policy. However, after listening to the call where Mr K updated his address, he felt 
Fairmead should have told Mr K that his policy had been/would be cancelled as his 
premiums hadnt been paid. And had Fairmead done that, Mr K most likely would have paid 
them, and not ended up being without insurance when his home was broken in to.
To put things right, our investigator said Fairmead should pay £300 for distress and 
inconvenience and consider Mr Ks claim. As he was asking for the claim to be considered, 
he said Mr K needed to pay the 2019 premium and contact his current insurer for a pro rata 
refund for the period he was insured by both polices.
Fairmead accepted our investigators findings, but Mr K did not. He said he wanted £10,000 
to resolve his complaint and that he shouldnt be expected to communicate with Fairmead.
As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his findings, Mr K asked for his case to be 
passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint, and Ill explain reasons why below.
Before I go into my findings, I wanted to say Im aware of Mr Ks thoughts on the length of 
time his case has been with us, and the part Fairmead may have played in that. I do 
understand this has been a very difficult situation for Mr K, and his strength on the matter. 
However, my decision needs to focus on Fairmeads actions before this case came to our 
service, and thats what Ive considered when reaching my decision. 
Was Mr Ks policy cancelled incorrectly?
Mr K complains Fairmead incorrectly claim he didnt pay his premiums before his policy was 
due to renew. And because of this, they unfairly cancelled his policy.
Fairmead has sent us information that shows Mr Ks policy was due to renew towards the 
end of April 2019, and he was sent a renewal quote a month beforehand. The letter detailed 
the renewal date, cost of the premiums, and how Mr K could pay his premiums. All of Mr Ks 
policy documents and letters could be accessed via an online portal, and Ive seen evidence 
that shows Mr K accessed this portal several times before the renewal date. This isnt 
something Mr K disputes, because hes confirmed he reviewed the documents as thats how 
he became aware of a mistake with his address (that he later called to fix) in the policy 
documents.
Two weeks before Mr Ks policy was due to renew, he was sent a letter with the title 
Reminder: your home insurance policy will expire soon. This explained that Mr K needed to 
pay for his policy if he wanted it renewed, and how he could do that. The letter said his cover 
would continue uninterrupted if he paid before the renewal date (which was stated in this 
letter). It also said, If you dont contact us, youll no longer be covered with us from your 
renewal date. I consider this reminder was sent in plenty of time to allow Mr K to pay for his 
premiums if he wanted to renew his policy. Im also satisfied the letter made clear what the 
consequences would be if payment wasnt made by the renewal date.
In light of the above, Im satisfied Fairmead provided Mr K with the information he needed to 
make an informed decision on whether he wanted to renew his policy, how he could do that, 
and the date by which he needed to pay his premiums. Ive seen nothing that shows Mr K 
paid his premium, neither before nor after his policy was cancelled. So, I cant fairly say 
Fairmead acted unreasonably when they cancelled his policy. Ultimately, Mr K was 
responsible for ensuring he had the appropriate cover for his needs - and doing what was 
necessary to ensure that cover was in place. So, while he may have forgotten to make the 
payment, its not fair to hold Fairmead responsible for his mistake. 
For the reasons above, I consider Fairmead were entitled to cancel Mr Ks policy when they 
did.
Did Fairmeads actions contribute to Mr K being without cover until January 2020?
While I consider Fairmead were entitled to cancel Mr Ks policy, I do think their actions 
played a part in Mr K being without cover until January 2020.
Mr K told us he contacted Fairmead at the end of April 2019 when he spotted his address 
was incorrect on his policy documents. Ive listened to this call, and at no point was Mr K told 
his policy had been cancelled, was due to be cancelled, or that he hadnt paid his premiums. 
Its particularly disappointing that happened because premiums were discussed during this call as Fairmeads advisor was initially unsure if changing Mr Ks address would affect his 
premiums.
The fact Mr K called Fairmead demonstrates that he was being a conscientious policyholder 
by taking steps to ensure all relevant details were correct. So, Fairmead should have been 
equally conscientious and explained his premiums were outstanding. Had they done that; Im 
persuaded Mr K would have arranged to either pay the premium or arranged cover 
elsewhere at that time. I say this because once Mr K was aware he didnt have the Fairmead 
policy, he bought a policy (from a different insurer) the following day.
Not only did Fairmead not tell Mr K his premiums were outstanding, following this call, they 
sent him updated policy documents. Ive seen what Mr K received, and nowhere did it say 
his premiums had been paid, nor did they say the payment of premiums were still 
outstanding. I consider any reasonable consumer would assume all was in order following 
that phone call, and after reading the updated policy documents. Given that wasnt the case, 
I cant say that was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Fairmeads mistake robbed Mr K of the opportunity to rectify his mistake (of not paying the 
premium on time). As a result, and without knowing this was the case, Mr Ks home was left 
uninsured for around eight months. So, I dont consider its fair to say Fairmead can avoid 
some responsibility for the position Mr K found himself in. 
Level of customer service provided by Fairmead 
Mr K is unhappy with the level of customer service he received  in particular the way 
Fairmeads advisors spoke to him, and the fact they didnt always return calls as promised.
Fairmead has been able to provide us with recordings of calls from the end of April 2019, 
and two calls from early January 2020. Ive listened to these calls and consider Fairmeads 
advisors remained polite and professional throughout. In the January 2020 calls, Mr K had 
recently experienced a break-in and then found out he didnt have a home insurance policy, 
so he was understandably very upset and frustrated. But despite this, I consider Fairmeads 
advisors tried to help him as much as possible  including offering to look into the 
cancellation if he told them when and how he paid his premiums. Given what had happened, 
I consider this was a reasonable request. So, Mr K choosing not to provide this information 
doesnt persuade me that Fairmead were being difficult or putting obstacles in the way. And 
his choice not to co-operate with this request made it more difficult for things to be resolved.
While Im satisfied with the tone of Fairmeads calls, I cant ignore that Mr K was promised a 
call back in early January 2020, and this didnt happen. Mr K shouldnt have had to chase 
Fairmead, particularly given he was going through a very stressful time after the break-in. 
While Fairmead werent responsible for the stress, worry and upset that most people 
inevitably feel after experiencing a break-in, like Mr K, they should have taken steps to avoid 
adding to an already difficult time.
I must also acknowledge that Fairmeads mistake when updating Mr Ks address contributed 
to the frustration he felt in January 2020. Had they given him clear and accurate information 
at that time, I believe its most likely Mr K would have had a home insurance policy in place 
before the break-in.It's because of these reasons, I dont consider Mr K received the level of service Id expect. 
Fairmead offered Mr K £40 in recognition of the missed call back. Its good to see they 
acknowledged their mistake. However, I dont agree it goes far enough to fully compensate 
Mr K for the full impact caused by their mistakes.
Putting things right
Mr K has said that to put things right, he wants Fairmead to pay him £10,000. While I agree 
Fairmead made several mistakes, and that their £40 offer doesnt go far enough to put things 
right, I cant agree £10,000 is a fair or reasonable resolution to his complaint.
As mentioned above, Fairmead could and should have done more to ensure Mr K was 
aware his policy had been cancelled. However, I cannot ignore the fact that ultimately, Mr K 
was responsible for ensuring he paid the premiums for his home insurance policy. He was 
provided with the necessary information that explained what he needed to pay, and how. So, 
when he didnt do to that, it was his own actions, not Fairmeads that resulted in his policy 
being cancelled. Fairmeads mistakes came after this when they led Mr K to believe he had 
a policy in place when that wasnt the case.
Although Mr K was without cover for just under eight months, he wasnt aware of this until he 
tried to make a claim. So, I can only consider the distress he would have experienced when 
he found out he was uninsured from this date. Thats because Mr K couldnt have felt 
distressed about a situation he wasnt aware of during that initial eight-month period.
Ive also had to place weight on the fact that experiencing a break-in at your home, the 
process of dealing with the aftermath, and claims comes with inevitable upset, frustration, 
and inconvenience. So, regardless of Fairmeads mistakes, Mr K was always going to 
experience a difficult time after his home and personal space was violated. However, what 
isnt fair is that Fairmead added to an already difficult time with their poor level of customer 
service. Fairmead were first made aware of Mr Ks complaint on 3 January 2020, and issued 
their final response on 28 January 2020, so Im satisfied they tried to deal with his concerns 
quickly. Its for this reason, that while I dont agree Fairmead has done enough to put things 
right, £300 is a fair award to recognise the worry Mr K experienced when he realised he 
wasnt covered, and the frustration and inconvenience from the difficulties he faced when 
trying to communicate with Fairmead. 
As mentioned above, Im persuaded Mr K would have paid for a policy had Fairmead 
reminded him cover wasnt in place. Had they done that; he would have been insured at the 
time of his break-in. This means he would have been entitled to have his claim considered in 
line with the relevant terms and conditions of his policy.
It's not for our service to say that Mr Ks claim should be paid, as only Fairmead can make 
that decision. However, I am asking Fairmead to consider Mr Ks claim. For this to happen, 
Mr K needs to work with Fairmead, and I appreciate this isnt something he wants to do 
given what has happened. However, I do not consider its reasonable to expect an insurer to 
settle a claim if theyve not been provided with the information, and/or evidence they require 
to determine whether a claim meets the terms and conditions of the policy. That is also why 
I wont be asking Fairmead to simply pay Mr K £10,000, as Ive seen nothing that evidences 
thats the value of his claim, or that those costs are fully covered by the terms of his policy. If 
Mr K isnt prepared to communicate with Fairmead directly about his claim, then he may 
want to consider using a representative to help facilitate things. For clarity, that isnt 
something our organisation can do for him.Our investigator said Mr K should pay the premiums for the Fairmead policy. But as that 
would mean he was dual insured from 4 January 2020 until 22 April 2020, Mr K should ask 
his other insurer for a pro rata refund for that timeframe.
I dont consider that is a pragmatic or reasonable way to resolve this issue. Thats because 
theres no guarantee Mr Ks other insurer will agree to this, especially when they bear no 
responsibility for the position Mr K has found himself in. Also, if they refused a refund, Mr K 
may be inconvenienced further by trying to resolve that matter.
To address this point, Fairmead should calculate the pro rata premiums from the date the 
policy should have started (23 April 2019), until 3 January 2020 (inclusive). If Mr Ks claim is 
successful, this amount should then be deducted from the settlement, alongside any other 
deductions stipulated under the policy (e.g. policy excess). But if Mr Ks claim isnt covered, 
I wont be asking him to pay the pro rata premiums. Thats because Fairmead wouldnt be 
expected to pay him a settlement. I acknowledge they would have spent time considering a 
claim. However, given Fairmeads mistakes, the cost of the policy, and the time thats 
passed, I consider this to be a reasonable way to finally resolve this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited. 
To put things right, Fairmead Insurance Limited should:
Consider Mr Ks claim in line with the relevant policy terms and conditions.
If Mr Ks claim is successful, pro rata premiums for the period of 23 April 2019 until 
3 January 2020 (inclusive) should be deducted from any settlement, alongside any 
other deductions permitted under the policy.
Pay Mr K £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
because of the level of customer service he received.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the £300 compensation award within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mr K accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr K how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman