DRN-2835308
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc loaded him to the National Fraud Database and 
closed his bank account. Hed like the loading removed, his account reopened and 
compensation for the impact. 
What happened
On 13 March 2018 Barclays received notification from a third party bank, Ill call Bank F, that 
Mr E received fraudulent funds into his account in the form of four transactions between the 
19 January 2018 and the 9 February 2018, totalling £2,650. 
Between 19 January 2018 and 26 February 2018 these funds were spent via a variety of 
transactions including cash withdrawals, bank transfers and Chip and PIN spending. 
After receiving the notification from Bank F, on the 27 March 2018 Barclays sent Mr E an 
immediate notice of account closure letter. They also decided to load him with a CIFAS 
marker on the National Fraud Database for misuse of facility. 
Mr E wasnt happy with Barclays decision. Barclays looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt 
uphold it. The bank said theyd applied the terms and conditions of his account fairly when 
carrying out the closure. And theyd fairly loaded him to the National Fraud Database.  
Mr E didnt accept Barclays conclusions so brought his complaint to our service. He 
explained that Barclays wouldnt tell him why his account was closed, his credit rating had 
been negatively impacted, hes been unable to re-mortgage or obtain a mobile phone 
contract and hes been caused distress by the loading of the marker.  
Mr E explained that one of his friends, Ill call Mr F, asked him to help in collecting overdue 
rental payments from a former estate agent, Ill call Mr B. In total Mr F was owed over 
£4,500. Mr E agreed to help Mr F, and Mr B advised hed be able to pay in person from a 
new bar business  D  he was now running. Mr E made arrangements with Mr B to visit on 
four occasions and collect payments towards the debt. The payments were paid directly to 
Mr Es debit card via a PDQ machine. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint and partly upheld it. 
They thought Barclays had acted fairly in closing Mr Es account, however they didnt have 
sufficient evidence to load the CIFAS marker. And recommended this was removed along 
with £200 compensation for the impact caused. 
Barclays didnt accept our investigators opinion, and in response said theyd provided 
sufficient evidence to load the marker.
Mr E responded to say hed spent around £10,000 on legal costs, through attempts to get 
the CIFAS marker removed and applications for re-mortgage which were refused because of 
the loading of the marker. 
As neither party fully accepted the view the complaint was passed to me for a decision. On 
reviewing Mr Es complaint I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I sent my 
Provisional Decision to both parties in April 2021. Barclays accepted my decision but Mr E 
didnt.  
Through a third party Mr E provided further evidence including:
Messages between Mr E and Mr B which show arrangements made to collect the 
money due. 
Messages between Mr F and Mr B which show discussions about the debt Mr B 
owed Mr F. 
Letters from one of Mr Es other banks and his accountant stating his reliability and 
good character.
Bank statements from Mr Es other bank accounts showing his good financial 
position. 
In summary Mr E also said:
Any information he provided to our service after his account closure doesnt indicate 
illegal activity and shouldnt be used to support Barclays decision. 
Whether he queried the use of the PDQ machine, as well as the timing of his transfer 
to Mr F didnt factor in Barclays original decision to load the CIFAS marker.
Theres no evidence that he moved the funds on quickly to avoid detection. For 
example, he moved some funds on the 29 January 2018 which was six days after the 
second deposit.
There is no indication that he was in financial difficulty and therefore had any 
motivation to commit a fraudulent act.
Hes a business owner and has three business accounts with another bank. 
He made no financial gain and transferred the money over to Mr F. 
Theres no evidence that he supported anyone else to commit the fraud, carried out 
the fraud himself or knowingly received criminal funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive not changed the outcome I reached in my Provisional Decision. 
In my Provisional Decision I said: 
Account closure:
Ive firstly considered whether Barclays acted fairly when closing Mr Es account. A bank is 
entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But, 
before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr Es account state that there are certain circumstances in 
which Barclays can immediately close a customers account. Section 11 of the terms and 
conditions state that Barclays can close an account without any notice if they reasonably 
believe:
You put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty 
that applies to us if we maintain your account.
You give us false information at any time.
You commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else. 
You use (or allow someone else to use) your account illegally or for criminal activity, 
including receiving proceeds of crime into your account.
You inappropriately let someone else use your account. 
You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff. 
You become bankrupt. 
Ive considered these terms and from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays acted 
within the terms and conditions when they closed Mr Es account. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr E and I appreciate the closure of his account caused 
him inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers 
banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can 
decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in 
Mr Es case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close 
his account. 
CIFAS marker:
Ive moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker. 
The marker that Barclays have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr E is guilty of a 
fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Es account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Barclays have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of 
proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with CIFAS. Im satisfied they have, and I say 
this because:
Ive seen evidence from Barclays showing Bank F notified them that Mr E received 
fraudulent funds into his account. 
Mr Es explained he was aware that Mr B wasnt trading as an estate agent, and was 
now managing a bar, Ill call D. I find it surprising that Mr E thought being paid funds 
using a PDQ machine registered to D, with no evidence of links to Mr Bs estate 
agent, was a legitimate form of payment. And neither he, or Mr F, thought to question 
why the rent could only be paid in this manner. 
Mr Es explained that on receiving the funds he intended to transfer them to Mr F. 
Mr E firstly explained that this wasnt possible due to his account closing on the 
27 March 2018  however by this point Mr E had been credited with all of the funds 
for over 6 weeks. Mr E has since explained Mr F didnt want him to transfer all of the 
funds until hed received the full rental payments from Mr B because this would 
create additional problems for him. Considering Mr E was willing to travel to Mr Bs 
location and collect the funds on four separate occasions I find it difficult to accept 
Mr E would have been caused significant inconvenience by transferring the funds 
after each payment. Even if I do accept this, it doesnt explain why Mr E didnt 
transfer £2,650 after receiving the last payment on the 9 February 2018. 
Soon after receiving the payments Mr E carried out a number of transactions utilising 
the money. After receiving £600 from D on the 19 January 2018 and £700 on the 
24 January 2018 Mr E carried out two cash withdrawals totalling £600 on the 
27 January 2018. On the 31 January 2018 Mr E received £650 from D carried out a 
bank transfer of £950 on the 3 February 2018 and a cash withdrawal of £1,500 on 
the 5 February 2018. By the 28 February 2018 Mr E had spent all of the funds hed 
received from D. 
Mr Es provided evidence that he transferred £2,650 to Mr F on the 14 May 2018 
however I find it surprising that Mr E would spend all of the money paid to him shortly 
after receiving the funds, and didnt transfer £2,650 to Mr F until over three months 
after receiving the money. 
I realise this will disappoint Mr E but for the reasons Ive outlined above I think that Barclays 
have met the burden of proof required to load a CIFAS marker. Therefore Im currently 
thinking of not asking them to do anything further here. 
Mr E responded to my Provisional Decision by saying a number of additional points, Ive 
addressed the main points below:
Any information he provided to our service after his account closure doesnt indicate 
illegal activity and shouldnt be used to support Barclays decision. 
Whether he queried the use of the PDQ machine, as well as the timing of his transfer 
to Mr F didnt factor in Barclays decision to load the CIFAS marker.
Ive considered Mr Es arguments above, but Im afraid I dont agree. Its my role to 
determine if Barclays acted fairly in closing Mr Es account and loading the CIFAS marker 
based on all the information provided. This means that whether or not at the time of closing 
Mr Es account and loading the CIFAS marker Barclays considered the use of the PDQ machine or when Mr E transferred the funds to Mr F, Ive thought about them when reaching 
my conclusions on the fairness of their actions.  
Theres no evidence that he moved the funds on quickly to avoid detection. For 
example, he moved some funds on the 29 January 2018 which was six days after the 
second deposit.
He made no financial gain and transferred the money to Mr F. 
I agree with Mr Es argument its usual for an individual who receives fraudulent funds to 
move them on quickly  and normally more quickly than Mr E did. And Ive considered this in 
my overall conclusion. However as I explained in my Provisional Decision Mr Es actions, in 
spending the funds via a large bank transfer, cash withdrawals and chip and PIN 
transactions, is what Id expect a fraudster to do. And doesnt support Mr Es version of 
events  as I outlined before if Mr E planned on transferring the funds to Mr F, as per the 
arrangement, I find it odd he spent all of the money, and paid Mr F using a different set of 
funds from a separate bank account three months later. 
There is no indication that he was in financial difficulty and therefore had motivation 
to commit a fraudulent act
Hes a business owner and has three business accounts with another bank. 
Mr Es provided statements from accounts with two other banks, showing a large balance in 
one of the business accounts. I accept that Mr E isnt lacking in funds  however this doesnt 
alter the facts I need to consider when looking at whether the bank had sufficient evidence to 
load a CIFAS marker. Mr E also argues that as a business owner hes a respectable 
member of society  and hes provided letters from another bank account provider and his 
accountant to support this. However, whether Mr E has financial means and a good 
reputation doesnt impact on whether the evidence is sufficient for Barclays to meet the 
burden of proof to load the CIFAS marker. And whether he was complicit in the fraud. 
Ive read the messages between Mr E, Mr B and Mr F. And Ive seen that prior to the first 
payment, and as part of discussions of the debt could be repaid, Mr B sent Mr F a copy of a 
receipt showing a refund for just over £650. Considering Mr Es business experience, the 
highly unusual payment method and an indication that payments were going to be made 
using refunds Im surprised by Mr Es lack of questioning of the process. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr E but for the reasons Ive already outlined I wont be 
changing the conclusions I reached in my Provisional Decision. And Im satisfied that 
Barclays acted fairly in immediately closing Mr Es account and loading a CIFAS marker 
against him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman