DRN-2561478
The complaint
Mr G and Miss Q complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr G and Miss Q took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 2004. Mr G and Miss Q said the 
PPI sale took place in a meeting and that Santander advised them to take the PPI. 
Santander agreed that advice was offered but could not confirm how the policy was sold. Mr 
G and Miss Q said they werent given a choice about taking the policy. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for only Miss Q at a 
monthly cost of £18.92 (with the first three months cover free of charge). The monthly 
benefit was £318.00. If Miss Q (as the person insured) had made a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Santander disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Miss Qs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr G and Miss Qs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander sent in copies of Mr G and Miss Qs mortgage application form, along with a letter 
the adviser had issued to them confirming details of a discussion about the mortgage and 
related products. It also sent in a copy of the welcome letter issued by the PPI policy 
underwriter, together with an information booklet and the full terms and conditions. It also 
sent in a computer record of the PPI details. It could not provide a copy of the PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate that it said Mr G and Miss Q would have had to 
complete. 
The letter from the adviser to Mr G and Miss Q was dated March 2004, and included a 
paragraph stating that PPI had been agreed. It did not state who was to be insured, but did 
include monthly cost and benefit figures that were virtually the same as the final figures. The 
letter did not state that any documents were enclosed, so it seems likely that the relevant 
paperwork had been completed at that point. 
However, the mortgage application form was signed and dated by Mr G and Miss Q some 
two weeks later. In the PPI section of the form, there are three options  in summary the 
applicants could say yes or no to PPI, or request further information. In this case there is a 
clear tick against the no option. 
Santander has not been able to explain why the PPI was put into force after the mortgage 
application form was clearly ticked to say Mr G and Miss Q didnt want it - there is no 
information about why they might have changed their minds again (having already decided 
they didnt want the policy between the dates of the advisers letter and the mortgage 
application form). 
So from the evidence I have, I am not satisfied that Mr G and Miss Q properly consented to 
the addition of the PPI policy to their mortgage. This is enough, in itself, for me to uphold this 
complaint. 
I have additional concerns about the sale of the policy, in that Miss Q was not the main 
income earner  indeed, according to the information on the mortgage application form she 
was earning substantially less than Mr G  but there is no information about what the 
advisers recommendation was in respect of who should be insured (as Ive said, the 
advisers letter simply refers to the cover in general terms). I also have some doubts about 
whether Miss Q was actually eligible for the cover  she told us that she was working for 
fewer than 16 hours per week at the point of sale, and based on the nature of her work and 
the salary stated this seems quite possible. However, she was unable to provide any 
evidence of her working hours in 2004. And in any case, as I am upholding the complaint for 
the reasons shown above, I do not need to make a finding on these points. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr G and Miss Q in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out the PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been cancelled, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr G and Miss Q the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr G and Miss Q made a successful claim under the PPI. Santander can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also take off the amount it has 
already refunded in relation to commission. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr G and Miss Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr G and Miss Qs complaint. 
Santander UK Plc should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman