DRN-4217366
The complaint
The estate of Mr T and the brother of the late Mr T (who I will refer to as Mr Ts brother) 
have complained that after Mr T sadly passed away, National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) said his joint account and the outstanding balance was the responsibility of the 
remaining account holder - even though Mr T had separated from the other account holder 
years ago. 
NatWest reduced the overdraft limit during this time, meaning more overdraft charges were 
applied to the balance.
As a result, the other account holder contacted Mr Ts brother, which put him in an awkward 
situation. Mr Ts brother says that the late Mr Ts data protection rights were breached, and 
Mr Ts brother paid some of the account fees to prevent further contact with the remaining 
account holder.
Mr Ts brother says he felt stressed, anxious, and upset as hes had to deal with family 
matters, which he said has been caused by NatWest.
In its response to the complaint, NatWest agreed to pay Mr Ts brother £80 to apologise for 
the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that NatWest had 
done anything wrong, and that there had been no data breach.
The estate of Mr T and Mr Ts brother disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. So the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to say that NatWest has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. I will explain why.
Firstly, before I get into the complaint, having reviewed everything I have to say I feel a great 
deal of sympathy for the family of the late Mr T in having to deal with such matters. I 
appreciate that it is difficult enough to deal with the loss of a loved one, but then having to 
unravel their finances when settling their estate has, in this case, clearly added a great deal 
more stress to the process.
Who can we make awards to for distress and inconvenience?
Having said all of the above, Im not able to instruct NatWest to pay any compensation to the 
estate of Mr T or Mr Ts brother for this matter. And that is the case even if I thought 
compensation was warranted.
The reason for this is because, as the adjudicator explained, the eligible complainant in this 
case is the late Mr T. This means both the brother and mother of the late Mr T are acting in 
the capacity of representatives for the estate in this complaint.
This is an important distinction to make, because we can only award compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience (if its warranted) that eligible complainants experience. But we 
cant generally make any awards of compensation for any distress or inconvenience 
experienced by a representative of an eligible complainant. 
So, although I can see this matter has been stressful for the family of the late Mr T, I 
wouldnt be able to award compensation for any distress or inconvenience that they have 
experienced in this matter, as they are not eligible complainants. And, as the events 
complained about have only come about after Mr T had passed away, I cant reasonably say 
that the late Mr T suffered any distress or inconvenience concerning the matters that this 
complaint relate to either.
Joint account
Having reviewed everything, its clear that the circumstances of this complaint have come 
about essentially because the late Mr T and his ex-partner never made the joint account a 
sole account. And the consequences of this have clearly been exacerbated further by the 
fact that the late Mr T had divorced the other account holder a number of years back, and 
the family of Mr T had not been in contact with the other account holder for a number of 
years.
Mr Ts brother says that the account started out as a sole account, in the late Mr Ts sole 
name. I understand why Mr Ts brother has said this, but I dont think it changes anything. I 
say this because, once it was changed to a joint account, the new account holder had 
exactly the same rights as the existing account holder. In other words, it is largely irrelevant 
for the purposes of this complaint who held the account first, once itd become a joint 
account. 
Once the account was changed to being a joint account, that meant that the late Mr T and 
the other account holder became jointly and severally liable for the account. Moreover, as it 
is a joint account, as per NatWests account terms and conditions, the rules of survivorship 
generally apply. This means that if either of the joint account holders die, as sadly happened 
in this case, the surviving account holder becomes liable for the account.
So in summary, although the estate of Mr T have brought this complaint, as the account was 
still a joint account when Mr T passed away, that means that the surviving account holder 
became solely liable for the account and therefore any debt that had accrued on the 
account. And that is the case, regardless of who built up the debt on the account or the state 
of the relationship between the two account holders at the time of the account holder 
passing away.
Mr Ts brother has explained that Mr T and his ex-partner did intend to get the account 
changed to being in Mr Ts sole name. However, I understand that only the ex-partner was 
present at the branch when she made this request. And NatWest, quite reasonably, said that 
both Mr T and his ex-partner would need to consent to such a change  after all, Mr T 
wouldve been made fully liable for the account had it been changed into his sole name. But 
from what I have seen, Mr T never provide his consent to the account being changed to a 
sole account. Therefore, I cant reasonably say that NatWest has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably because the account remained as a joint account when Mr T sadly passed 
away.  
In this case, I appreciate that the estate of Mr T has agreed to cover the other account 
holders costs to repay the debt that had accrued on her account. But ultimately the decision 
to do that is a civil matter between the estate of Mr T and the other account holder. I cant 
reasonably hold NatWest responsible for their decision to do that. 
Furthermore, as the other account holder is not party to this complaint, I cant consider 
whether NatWest treated them fairly and reasonably, nor can I question whether the balance 
on the account was correct. Of course, if the other account holder wishes to make a complaint against NatWest, then we may be able to consider that as a separate complaint. 
But for these reasons, Im not able to comment on NatWests handling of the account in 
question, or indeed even if the balance that the surviving account holder was left to repay 
was correct.
Data breach
Finally, Mr Ts brother has complained that NatWest breached data protection laws, because 
it disclosed the late Mr Ts address to the other account holder.
However, I dont think NatWest was being unreasonable if it disclosed to the surviving 
account holder what address the account was registered to  after all it was her account by 
that stage and NatWest had been sending her letters about her account to that address. 
Furthermore, even if I were to say that NatWest was being unreasonable in disclosing the 
late Mr Ts address to the other account holder  it is the case that the data protection rules 
only apply to people when they are alive. As such, the disclosure of the late Mr Ts address 
to the other account holder after hed passed away would not count as a breach of the 
relevant data protection rules in any event. 
As such, whilst I have great deal of sympathy for the predicament that the family of Mr T 
found themselves in when settling his estate, Im unable to say that NatWest has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in pursuing the surviving account holder for the debt that had 
accrued on the late Mr Ts joint account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman