DRN-4308548
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after they made a claim on
their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have legal expenses insurance provided by Aviva as part of their home
insurance. In July 2022 they made a claim on the policy for assistance under the property
disputes section. On their claim form they said they wanted support with legal action to
obtain physical possession of a property. Aviva said the policy contained an exclusion for
any claim relating to or arising from joint property ownership. It thought that applied here.
Mr and Mrs H said the property was in joint ownership but the claim wasnt against the joint
owner but against a third party who had been living there (and whose personal belongings
remained in the property). Having obtained further information Aviva said in September 2022
it still thought the joint ownership exclusion applied; it believed a co-owner was attempting to
force sale of the property against another owner.
Our investigator didnt agree. He thought Mr and Mrs H had provided evidence to show Mrs
H (and her sister) were the joint owners. And Aviva hadnt shown the third party who the
claim would be progressed against had any ownership rights. Nor did it have any legal
advice in support of its view. He thought the claim should be reconsidered against the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. But he didnt think any compensation should be
paid to Mr and Mrs H as he thought any impact on them had come about as a result of the
normal claims investigation process.
Aviva didnt agree. It thought the exclusion was clear and had been correctly applied.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree either. In summary they said:
Because Aviva had turned down the claim they sought their own legal assistance which
had enabled them to regain possession of the property and this was now on the market
to be sold. So Aviva reconsidering the claim would no longer be of any benefit to them.
The only outstanding issue related to compensation. They drew attention to the time 
taken by Aviva in dealing with the claim which they thought fell significantly outside a 
normal timetable and which caused significant stress and anxiety.
They also said Aviva should allow their current solicitor to act in any future claim relating 
to the disbursement monies following the sale of the property. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And its for the insured to show
an insured event under the policy has taken place. If they can, its then for the insurer to
show, on balance, that an exclusion or condition applies which means it can turn down an
otherwise valid claim.
In this case the policy covers property disputes and in particular a dispute relating to the
interference of your use, enjoyment or right over your home. This covers your main home
and, for this section only, includes any other homes you own or rent. Aviva hasnt disputed
the claim Mr and Mrs H made would fall within this section of cover. So I think its accepted
an insured event has taken place.
However, Aviva believes the claim is caught by a general exclusion in the legal expenses
policy which says we will not pay forany claim relating or arising as a result of divorce,
separation, matrimonial issues or cohabitation, joint property ownership, joint financial
obligations or maintenance, financial or custody arrangements involving children.
Aviva believes that exclusion is clear. But the question in this case is whether its shown, on
balance, it applies to the claim Mr and Mrs H made. I dont think it has. Mr and Mrs H told
Aviva from the outset the third party had no legal interest in or ownership of the property. I
understand the title deeds show the ownership as being in the name of Mrs H, her sister and
her late stepfather. That ownership does appear to have been as tenants in common but
Aviva doesnt seem to have any evidence to show Mrs Hs stepfathers share had passed to
the third party or that she had become a legal owner.
And other evidence provided by Mr and Mrs H included a letter from the local authority which
said Council Tax liability would be amended to that of Mrs H and her sister as joint owners of
the property. The local authority said checks indicated the third party had no legal interest in
the property whilst both yourself and [Mrs Hs sister] are named as joint owners with the late
[Mrs Hs stepfather]. Mr and Mrs H confirmed to Aviva in early August that there was no
dispute between the joint owners of the property about what to do; both were in agreement
about the need to gain possession.
Aviva doesnt appear to have had any other evidence to show the claim related to or arose
from joint property ownership. So I dont think it has shown the exclusion applies and I dont
think it fairly turned down the claim. In my view it should have referred this for an
assessment as to whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the
policy) soon after Mr and Mrs H confirmed in early August there was no dispute between the
owners of the property.
Ive thought about the impact of that failing on Mr and Mrs H. I understand after Aviva
declined their claim they sought advice from a solicitor. That enabled them to take the
necessary steps to repossess the property and market it for sale. So the underlying claim
has now been resolved. And Mr and Mrs H havent suggested they incurred any costs which
would otherwise have been covered by the policy in doing so.
But if they do have evidence of these Aviva will need to arrange for a retrospective prospects
assessment to be carried out to establish whether funding would have been provided for
Mr and Mrs Hs claim. If it would, it will need to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for any costs and
expenses (as defined in the policy) incurred in pursuing this claim.
I also appreciate this was a stressful time for Mr and Mrs H. I think that will at least in part
have been due to their ongoing concerns about the situation with the property. I dont think
that would necessarily have been avoided even if Aviva had acted properly because a
prospects assessment would itself have taken time to complete. But I do agree they were
caused uncertainty about the position with their claim during August and September 2022
and it will have been upsetting in itself for this to be declined incorrectly. I think it would fairly
recognise the impact on them of that for Aviva to pay them £200.
Mr and Mrs H also say they want Aviva to appoint the solicitor they used to assist them in
any future claim relating to the disbursement of the proceeds of the property. But I think thecompensation Ive already recommended is the right amount to put things right in relation to
this complaint. If there is a future claim that will need to be considered on its own merits and
in line with the policy terms (including as they relate to the appointment of solicitors).
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva accepted what I said. Mr and Mrs H didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Aviva accepted what I said and Mr and Mrs H havent responded I dont have any reason 
to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Aviva will need to pay Mr and Mrs H £200. 
If they have evidence to show they incurred costs which could have been covered by the 
policy, Aviva will need to arrange for a retrospective prospects assessment to be carried out 
to establish whether funding would have been provided for their claim. 
If it would, it will then need to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for any costs and expenses (as 
defined in the policy) they incurred in pursuing this claim.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman