DRN-3484567
The complaint
Miss H complains Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) have refused to remove a default 
marker from her credit file, even though she has explained the difficult personal 
circumstances that caused her financial problems.  
What happened
Miss H says Sainsburys applied a default marker on her credit file in December 2020, 
relating to her credit card account, which has had a major effect on her ability to move home. 
Miss H says she accepts that she hadnt kept up to date with her personal affairs, which led 
to her not being on top of her finances. Miss H explains this was due to various issues 
leading up to and during the Covid pandemic, not least the loss of a close family member. 
Miss H says her business had also suffered during this time and her personal circumstances 
created a lot of stress and anxiety for her whole family. 
Miss H says she has now got her financial position back on track and asked Sainsburys to 
reconsider the default marked on her credit file, taking into account her personal situation at 
the time of the default and the fact she has since repaid the credit card account  but it has 
refused to remove it. 
Sainsburys says Miss H had a history of missed payments on her credit file and it wrote to 
her on a number of occasions advising her of the consequences of not making the payments 
on time. Sainsburys says it also made attempts to telephone Miss H, but neither this nor the 
letters prompted any response from her. 
Sainsburys says it did agree a temporary payment freeze on Miss Hs credit card account 
but when that arrangement expired, Miss H failed to resume payments to her credit card 
account, despite being sent letters and credit card statements clearly showing what she 
needed to do, to avoid a default. Sainsburys says it did nothing wrong when it registered the 
default on her credit card account, and it has a responsibility to accurately record its 
customers accounts activity to the relevant credit reference agencies. 
Miss H wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Miss H had been in and out of arrears on several occasions prior to the 
pandemic. The investigator says Sainsburys tried to get in touch on numerous occasions 
and finally put in place a three-month payment freeze in May 2020. The investigator says 
when the payment freeze expired Miss H failed to make any further payments to her credit 
card account and Sainsburys had written  to her during this period of time, but without any 
response from Miss H. 
The investigator says Sainsburys acted fairly when it defaulted her credit card account in 
December 2020. The investigator pointed out that Sainsburys had a responsibility to 
accurately report account activity and he couldnt ask Sainsburys to remove the default 
marker.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can see that Miss H went through a challenging time both financially and personally, and I 
was sorry to learn of the loss of a close family member and no doubt that would  have been 
very difficult for her. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Sainsburys acted unfairly when it marked 
Miss Hs credit file with a default marker and then refused to remove it, knowing her personal 
issues at the time. 
The first thing to say is, and by her own admission, Miss H did miss numerous payments on 
her credit card account before it was defaulted and there was a history of missed payments 
leading up to the Covid pandemic, previously. Miss H explained the issues she was going 
through not only with her business struggling, but also the loss of a close family member, 
which no doubt would have created a great deal of upset and stress. 
But here I am being asked to now tell Sainsburys, knowing that background, to 
retrospectively remove the default on Miss Hs credit file, bearing in mind she has also 
repaid the borrowing on her credit card account. While I have sympathy with Miss Hs 
situation, Im not persuaded by her argument.
What is clear is that Sainsburys have provided evidence to show it wrote to Miss H on 
several occasions leading up to the default being issued, on each occasion it provided 
details of the consequences of any missed payments to her credit file and the likelihood of 
default. There is also evidence to show several occasions when Sainsburys attempted to 
telephone Miss H, without success. From the information I have seen, neither the letters of 
arrears, notice of default or attempted phone calls to Miss H resulted in any attempted 
contact from her and therefore, Im not sure there was much else Sainsburys could have 
done here.  
Its worth saying, Miss H had come out of a payment freeze agreed by Sainsburys for three 
months in May 2020, so some support had been shown here. Its also worth noting Miss H 
wouldnt have been entitled to a Covid payment holiday as directed by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, as she had already been in arrears leading up to April 2020, when the guidance 
was given.
While I understand Miss Hs financial position is now more stable and she has now repaid 
her outstanding balance to Sainsburys, its fair to say it was prior to the time of the default 
that Miss H needed to discuss matters with them, as difficult as that might have been, not 
after the event. 
As I mentioned before it would be unfair of me to tell Sainsburys that it must retrospectively 
remove the default from Miss Hs credit file  after all its only fair it treats all of its customers 
in the same way in these situations. Its worth pointing out that Sainsburys have a 
responsibility and obligation, to correctly record its customers account activity to the relevant 
credit agencies. It follows its not for me to tell Sainsburys it must remove the default from Miss Hs credit file.
While Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Sainsburys here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman