DRN-3440506
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he took out rent protection insurance with Rightmove Landlord 
and Tenant Services Limited he was wrongly told the tenant reference he provided was 
suitable when in fact it wasnt, which meant he was left with no cover for rent protection.
What happened
In 2017 Mr M let his property to a tenant. He obtained a tenant reference check and sent this 
to Rightmove, who accepted the reference, and he then took out a policy with them. Mr M 
renewed the policy in 2018 and again in 2019. In 2020 he looked for an alternative policy 
and found one with another firm that was cheaper. But when he tried to take out that policy 
he was told the tenant reference wasnt acceptable.
Mr M complained to Rightmove, who agreed that the policy was mis-sold as the reference 
hadnt been checked properly. Rightmove repaid Mr Ms premiums for the time hed had the 
policy and said it would cover any legal costs Mr M incurred if he had to evict the tenant.
Mr M said Rightmove should also agree to cover future arrears if the tenant refused to pay 
the rent. He said the tenant could potentially refuse to pay for months before he would be 
allowed to evict him and these arrears  which the policy would have covered  would not 
now be covered. He also said if hed known he couldnt get cover for the tenant he would not 
have let the flat to him.
When Mr M brought the complaint to this service, Rightmove said it would extend its original 
offer to include cover for any rent arrears that fell due until the end of 2021. So, if Mr M 
decided to evict the tenant and he decided not to pay further rent it would cover this until the 
end of that year.
Mr M said due to changes in the law following the covid-19 pandemic he would need to give 
a minimum of four months notice to the tenant, and the courts were taking around ten 
months to grant a possession order for rent arrears. So he said any offer to cover arrears 
should be in place until the tenant leaves the property, which would not be until the end of 
2022 at the earliest.
When our investigator put this proposal forward, Rightmove said it would offer a maximum of 
12 monthly payments to cover rent arrears if the tenant defaulted. But as the policy would 
have lapsed on 19 November 2021 any claim would need to be made before then. 
Rightmove said it wouldnt pay any rent arrears until a full months rent was in arrears and 
would then cover any rent amounts that the tenant failed to pay, and if the tenant then made 
any payment, Mr M would need to repay that amount.
Our investigators view was that by making this offer, having already refunded the premiums, 
Rightmove had tried to cover any loss Mr M might suffer and this would in effect offer what 
the policy would have covered if it had still been in place. But Mr M wasnt happy with the 
offer. He said was left in a position where he couldnt get cover with any insurer because he 
doesnt have the right tenant reference and, because of the tenants circumstances, he cant 
get one. He was also concerned there was no guarantee Rightmove would honour its 
promise and if it didnt, he would then have to go to court, which would be expensive. So 
Mr M said he would prefer a compensation payment instead and would accept any amount 
the ombudsman considered reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said the fair way to resolve 
matters was for Rightmove to pay Mr M compensation of £1,500. I set out my reasons as 
follows:
There was no dispute that Rightmove made an error and as a result Mr M doesnt 
have cover for rent protection. What I needed to consider was whether the offer 
Rightmove had made would put things right.
Mr M said he couldnt get any policy that would cover him because any insurer would 
want a tenant reference and he cant get a suitable reference for this tenant. It was 
likely he wouldnt have let the flat to this tenant if hed known there was no cover. 
And if hed let the property to another tenant with a valid reference, then he would 
have been covered. 
So he was left in a position where if the tenant didnt pay the rent he couldnt claim 
the rent protection cover that would have been provided if hed had another tenant, or 
had the correct reference for this tenant. 
To put Mr M in the position he would have been in, had there been no error, he would 
have cover for the tenant (though he would have had to pay the premium for this). 
However, the tenant had been paying the rent for several years without any issue, 
and if they continued to pay there would not be a problem. It might not be fair to 
leave Rightmove potentially open to a claim many years in the future, particularly 
when it had repaid all of Mr Ms premiums.
The fair thing to do would be to make a payment to Mr M rather than have things left 
open for an indefinite time. He had the shock of finding he wasnt covered for the 
rent, and hed lost the opportunity to make a claim if the tenant stopped paying the 
rent at some point in the future. £1,500 would be reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and the loss of the opportunity to make a claim in future.
Rightmove said it would accept the provisional decision. But Mr M said the situation had 
changed and the proposed payment wouldnt now be fair, as the tenant had stopped paying 
the rent and the amount suggested wouldnt cover his costs relating to this. So he asked to 
go back to the original offer.
When our investigator put this to Rightmove, it wasnt willing to make that offer and said it 
would await the final decision.
Mr M said the tenant was still in arrears and he was having to take legal action to get 
possession of the property. So he was now looking for compensation for the total cost in 
relation to this.
In view of the change in circumstances, I issued a second provisional decision. In that 
decision, I said:
As I said in my previous provisional decision, theres no dispute that an error was made. The 
issue is how to put that right for Mr M. He was looking for some compensation and my view 
was that a payment of £1,500 would be fair, as he wasnt in a position where he needed to 
take any action against the tenant or had suffered a loss. However, things have moved on 
since then  he says the tenant is no longer paying the rent and so he needs to take 
possession of the property.
I also explained previously that to put Mr M in the position he would have been in, had there 
been no error, he would now have cover for the tenant (though he would have to pay the premium for this). And thats still the case. Rightmove referred to the fact the policy would 
have lapsed on 19 November 2021. But as Mr M has sought cover for the property 
throughout, Im satisfied he would have continued to have cover if hed been able to get it. 
The reason he cant is due to Rightmoves error. And this has left him in a position of having 
no cover where, if the error hadnt happened, he would have been covered.
In these circumstances the fair thing to do is to put Mr M in the position he would have been 
in, if the mistake hadnt happened. In other words, he would be covered (either by this policy 
or another one on a similar basis).
The terms of the policy say he would be covered for the costs of pursuing legal action to get 
possession of the property and, where the claim for possession is covered, up to 11 months 
unpaid rent while trying to obtain possession. Rightmove should pay these amounts, so 
Mr M isnt out of pocket.
If Mr M did still have cover in place, he would have to pay for it. Rightmove has refunded to 
him the premiums he had paid. If he is given cover without having paid any premiums, he 
would receive a double benefit, and that wouldnt be fair. So any premiums that have been 
refunded to him may be deducted from any amounts paid to him.
My previous recommendation for compensation was intended to cover the distress caused 
to Mr M by the lack of cover. If he is to be given cover, that distress will be considerably 
lower. Nevertheless, he has been left for a long time not knowing whether hed have cover if 
the tenant stopped paying rent. So I think its still fair to make a payment, although at a lower 
level. The figure I have in mind is £200.
Putting things right
Taking all of this into account, my view is that the fair way to put things right for Mr M is as 
follows.
Subject to Mr M providing any information required to confirm the rent arrears and legal 
costs, Rightmove should:
Cover his reasonable and necessary legal costs for obtaining possession of the 
property. An indication of reasonable rates can be found by reference to the County 
Court guideline rates. If Rightmove considers the costs claimed by Mr M to be 
unreasonable it may arrange (and pay for) the costs to be assessed by a costs 
assessor.
Pay for any unpaid rent up to a maximum of 11 months.
Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Rightmove may deduct from the above payments any refund of premium that has been paid 
to Mr M.
Replies to the second provisional decision
Rightmove has not replied to the second provisional decision. Mr M has replied. He says:
The tenant is now £5,000 in arrears and he would like this money paid urgently as 
the arrears are increasing daily.
Theres no guarantee that Rightmove will honour their part of the agreement and he 
would have to go through an expensive court process to enforce it. So he would like 
the ombudsman to put a mechanism in place that that will prevent this from 
happening.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns about the arrears but there is no mechanism I can put in place 
other than to issue my final decision. If he accepts the decision and Rightmove doesnt then 
comply with it, he may enforce it through the court.
As I have received no further comments on the merits of the complaint or my proposed 
resolution, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. So it remains my view that 
Rightmove should compensate Mr M for his losses as follows.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr M providing any information required to confirm the rent arrears and legal 
costs, Rightmove should:
Cover his reasonable and necessary legal costs for obtaining possession of the 
property. An indication of reasonable rates can be found by reference to the County 
Court guideline rates. If Rightmove considers the costs claimed by Mr M to be 
unreasonable it may arrange (and pay for) the costs to be assessed by a costs 
assessor.
Pay for any unpaid rent up to a maximum of 11 months.
Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Rightmove may deduct from the above payments any refund of premium that has been paid 
to Mr M.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Rightmove Landlord and Tenant Services Limited to put 
things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman