DRN-1126597
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC lost some extremely important documents. 
The documents were later found and Lloyds has offered compensation, but Mr and Mrs D 
dont think its enough to make up for what went wrong.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had placed documents proving ownership to valuable property with Lloyds for 
safekeeping. They asked Lloyds for those documents back. Lloyds initially told them it didnt 
have these in safekeeping, the couple had taken them out, but they hadnt. Lloyds said it had 
their signatures for these withdrawals.
Mr and Mrs D set out for us the scale of the possible loss that couldve occurred if the 
documents hadnt been found, which was very serious. They told us they spent a lot of time 
searching, and were caused a lot of worry, before the documents were located. Mr and 
Mrs D dont think Lloyds has offered enough compensation to make up for what went wrong.
Lloyds offered Mr D £300 to say sorry, and it said if theyd incurred any travel costs, they 
should tell it about those too, so it could look into paying those.
Our investigator agreed that Mr and Mrs D had received poor customer service, but she was 
pleased to see that the documents had been found. She thought the issue was identified and 
resolved within a small number of weeks, which wasnt an unreasonable turnaround by 
Lloyds. She didnt think that Lloyds had to pay more.
Mr D replied, he was unhappy with this. He doubted whether the papers wouldve been 
returned without his efforts. He also said that the compensation didnt reflect his lost wages, 
or the money he was now having to spend to ensure the problem couldnt recur. He wanted 
an ombudsmans decision on his complaint, so this case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has set out for us what happened. Lloyds cant confirm this, as it has few notes, but it 
doesnt seem to me to have cast any doubt on Mr Ds recollection.I think it's likely that things 
happened just as Mr D has said, including that he and Mrs D were initially told theyd taken 
the documents out of safekeeping, when they had not.
I can well understand why Mr and Mrs D would be very concerned about this, given the 
scale of the possible loss if the documents werent found. These losses, fortunately, didnt 
occur, because the documents were located, but this must have been a very stressful 
experience for the couple.
Mr D doubted whether the documents would've been found without the work he and his wife 
put in. I can see that Lloyds initially thought that it had given the documents back. But it does then seem to have worked with the couple to find their documents. It's accepted it made 
mistakes, apologised, and offered £300 in compensation.
Mr D says the amount Lloyds offered doesnt reflect the rate of pay that he wouldve 
received if hed worked for the time that he spent resolving this problem. I know that both Mr 
and Mrs D put in a lot of effort to resolving this problem. But I'm aiming to assess the impact 
of what went wrong as a whole. I dont think that Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs D 
compensation based on Mr Ds hourly rate of pay.
Mr D has now taken the decision to pay for work which will mean hes no longer dependent 
on physical copies of documents. He said Lloyds' offer wouldn't cover that either. But I dont 
think that its Lloyds fault that the documents are currently in this form, and I think that its 
likely that the proposed change will also bring other benefits. So I dont think that Lloyds 
needs to pay for this work.
I know that Mr D doesnt think the amount that Lloyds has offered is enough. But Ive 
considered this case carefully, and I think it is the right amount to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. Its in line with the amount I wouldve suggested in 
this case, if Lloyds hadnt already made this offer. So I dont think Lloyds has to pay more.
Its not clear to me whether Lloyds has actually paid £300 to Mr and Mrs D yet. If it hasn't, 
then I'll leave it to them to decide if they would now like to take Lloyds up on that offer. 
Because I don't think Lloyds needs to do more than it has already offered to do, I won't 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman