DRN-2747711
The complaint
 Mr K complains that Valitor Payment Services Limited charged him for his full 36 month 
contract even though he had ceased trading and had asked that it be terminated.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I agree the contract was entered into by Mr K as a sole trader as is shown on his application 
form and he agreed to make payments for a minimum of 36 months. I gather he stopped 
trading after some three months. The contract makes it clear on the first page that customer 
will be liable to pay the full charges due for the minimum period of 36 months. I cannot 
conclude that Mr K was not made aware of the obligations to which he signed up.
The contract also states that should Mr K wish to end it before 36 months he is liable for the 
balance less 5%. That means the legal liability for Mr K is the remainder of the 36 months 
payments less 5%.  
Valitor has made a number of offers to Mr K and it seemed that agreement had been 
reached. It told this service that it would offer Mr K a reduction of 25%. However, it 
transpired the terms were unrealistic in that the offer was only available for one day and Mr 
K must pay the full amount due and the business would then return 25%. It said that if 
settlement wasnt made within one day the original fee would be charged.
I consider that to be a wholly unrealistic offer and the suggestion that the full fee would be 
charged without the 5% discount which it was legally obliged to offer went beyond the terms 
of the contract.
Our investigator suggested that Valitor charge the sum due under the contract, i.e. the 
outstanding balance less 5% and it also pay Mr K compensation of £75 for incorrectly 
seeking full payment without the discount.
To its credit Valitor offered to reduce the sum due by 30% and a by a further £75 bringing it 
down to £427.32. It said it would require payment within 7 days of the invoice being issued 
or it would require full payment with no discount. Mr K didnt think this reasonable as he was 
facing financial difficulties and he needed time to pay.  
I have some concerns that Valitor continues to suggest that it can withdraw the 5% discount 
which is in its terms and conditions if payment is no made within a specified time. I consider 
that to be seeking to impose undue pressure on Mr K.
As such I consider Valitors offer to be fair, but I cannot determine the timescale over which 
Mr K should pay. My role is to determine what is fair and reasonable to both parties. Taking 
into account the handling by Valitor of this matter I consider that the charge should be 
reduced to £427.32 and if Mr K does not pay it then it is open to Valitor to take the 
appropriate action to collect the sum due. 
However, I would remind it of its obligation to deal with Mr K positively and sympathetically in 
helping him resolve his financial difficulties. If Mr K does not consider the business to have 
met its obligations in the future they he may be entitled to bring a fresh complaint.
Putting things right
The charge should be reduced as proposed by Valitor, but I cannot require it to be paid 
within a specified date. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Valitor Payment Services Limited 
to reduce the sum payable by Mr K to £427.32. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman