DRN-3426146
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Unum Limiteds (Unum) decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Mrs C has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
Unum. This pays a benefit if Mrs C is unable to work due to illness or injury for a deferred 
(waiting) period of 26 weeks and beyond. 
In February 2021, Mrs C became absent from work and made a claim. But Unum declined it 
on the basis that there was insufficient medical evidence of incapacity throughout the 
deferred period. Unhappy, Mrs C complained and referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had done anything wrong 
based on the medical evidence it had seen. 
Mrs C disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The investigator doesnt have an understanding of depression and mental health 
issues. 
She has been on medication for a long time following a breakdown in 2018 which 
was caused by workplace bullying and managed to go back to work after this. That 
doesnt mean she recovered  she learnt to cope at certain points. 
In 2021, her depression worsened and she was suicidal. She has days and weeks 
where she cant get out of bed, leave her house or care for her husband. It wasnt her 
husbands health which was preventing the return to work, it was her ability to care 
for him which she couldnt do.
She had to wait for an appointment to see the consultant psychiatrist and she feels 
she is being penalised for this being outside of the deferred period. 
She cannot cope with facing customers whilst suffering from anxiety and depression 
and still has suicidal thoughts. 
She has medical notes signing her off as unfit for work and she is clearly not fit for 
work as her depression and anxiety isnt any better.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of their illness or injury to 
perform the material and substantial duties of their insured occupation.
Material and substantial duties are defined as follows:
duties that are normally required for the performance of the members insured 
occupation, and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by the member or 
the employer...
So this means that Mrs C has to show that she is unable to work due to illness and this has 
to last throughout the deferred period for 26 weeks and beyond. 
Unum reviewed the medical evidence which has been set out in some detail already by the 
investigator. I wont repeat what he has said but I will summarise what I consider to be key to 
my decision. 
Key medical evidence
February 2021  Mrs C became absent from work due to dizziness, headaches and nausea.
March 2021  Mrs C was experiencing chest tightness and her GP signed her off and 
advised her to attend hospital. Mrs C attended hospital where her ECG was normal. She 
was worried about possible angina. Mrs C was seen by a cardiac nurse specialist who 
prescribed medication and said further investigations were needed.
April 2021  Mrs C spoke to her GP and was signed off with depression and low mood. She 
said she was waiting to start counselling through her employer. Mrs C saw an occupational 
health adviser who found Mrs C was unable to work. Mrs C told the adviser shed been 
stressed at work due to problems with her line manager and she was anxious. She also saw 
a consultant cardiologist who discharged her back to the care of her GP and said scans had 
found upper GI and reflux related symptoms. 
May 2021  Mrs C saw an occupational health adviser again who said Mrs C was unfit for 
work. They discussed her ongoing cardiac and psychological problems. The adviser said 
workplace concerns needed to be addressed by Mrs Cs employer. 
June 2021  Mrs C said her chest pains had largely resolved by now.
August 2021  The 26-week deferred period ended. 
September 2021  Mrs C saw a consultant psychiatrist who diagnosed a recurrent 
depressive order and a secondary diagnosis of generalised anxiety disorder. He said Mrs 
Cs trigger for her current episode was work stress and caring responsibilities. Mrs Cs 
medication was changed and they discussed courses for mental wellbeing. 
Unum reviewed the above medical evidence and concluded there was insufficient medical 
evidence to show that Mrs C was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. It said the 
report from September 2021 was outside of the deferred period. 
Its my role to decide whether Unum acted fairly in declining Mrs Cs claim. The onus is on 
Mrs C, as the claimant, to prove that she meets the definition of incapacity. Unum explained 
that it didnt think there was sufficient medical evidence to support incapacity for the 
following reasons:Mrs C explained her chest pains had resolved by June 2021. 
In relation to depression, there was insufficient evidence to show that Mrs C was off 
work due to depression throughout the deferred period. When Mrs C did discuss her 
mental health, she attributed her anxiety to workplace stress. This means Mrs C was 
affected by issues at work rather than a medical condition and if her workplace 
barriers were removed, she would be able to return to work.
Mrs C had other health issues but there wasnt any evidence that they were of such 
severity to prevent her from working throughout the deferred period. 
To be eligible for payment of benefit under the policy, Mrs C has to be incapacitated 
throughout the deferred period which means she has to show she is unable to complete the 
material and substantial duties of her role. The benefit isnt specific to her employer but to 
her role. So if the evidence suggests that Mrs C would be able to perform her role for 
another employer (for example with a different team or line manager), then she wouldnt be 
eligible for benefit. The policy isnt designed to pay out as a result of employment disputes 
which cause stress.
Having considered all of the above, I agree that Unum hasnt unfairly declined Mrs Cs claim 
as the medical evidence doesnt show that she has been incapacitated throughout the 
deferred period (between February 2021 and August 2021). 
Mrs Cs comments
Mrs C says the investigator doesnt have an understanding of depression and mental 
health issues. I can confirm the investigator has the appropriate knowledge and 
training to deal with these complaints. He has explained in his view why he doesnt 
think Unum has acted unfairly. 
Although Mrs C says she has been on medication for a long time, she has to show 
that she is incapacitated for a minimum of 26 weeks due to an illness. Being on 
medication alone isnt sufficient to evidence incapacity. And it seems Mrs C was able 
to work previously whilst taking her medication.
Mrs C became absent in February 2021 and so her deferred period starts then. Mrs 
C says she hadnt recovered from her previous breakdown in 2018. This complaint 
relates to her income protection claim as a result of incapacity which she says started 
in February 2021. Mrs C went back to work between 2018 and 2021 and so this 
suggests she was able to perform her role, with the use of medication.
Mrs C has said she was depressed and suicidal in 2021. Im sorry to hear of Mrs Cs 
mental health issues and I dont doubt how she was feeling. But my decision has to 
be based on the medical evidence available. The evidence set out above, during the 
deferred period, doesnt go into any detail about Mrs Cs mental health problems or 
any interventions. In her earlier GP consultations (February and March 2021) the GP 
noted that there were no thoughts of self-harm or suicide. I appreciate Mrs Cs 
condition and mental health may have deteriorated later on in 2021 but the claim 
Unum were looking into was for the period starting in February 2021 to August 2021. 
Mrs C would need to satisfy the definition of incapacity for this whole period to be 
eligible for benefit.
Mrs C says she is being penalised for seeing a consultant psychiatrist outside of the 
deferred period. I note what Mrs C says but this isnt the case. The consultant attributes Mrs Cs depression and anxiety to work stress and caring responsibilities 
but doesnt go into any detail about why Mrs C wouldnt be able to perform her role. 
The remainder of the medical evidence from earlier in the deferred period doesnt go 
into detail about Mrs Cs mental state which I would expect to see to evidence 
incapacity.
I appreciate Mrs C says she cant cope with facing customers with how she is feeling. 
But there isnt any medical evidence to explain how her mental health issues are 
affecting her function, throughout the deferred period.
Medical notes signing Mrs C off work by themselves arent sufficient to show that Mrs 
C was incapacitated. In some cases, the GP records show she requested a sick 
note. This isnt objective medical evidence. 
The deferred period is relevant as that is the starting point and the claim is based on 
that. If Mrs C feels her condition has deteriorated or that she has further medical 
evidence which evidences her incapacity, she would need to send this to Unum to 
consider, potentially as a new claim. 
I appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision and I dont doubt that she 
has been unwell. But based on the deferred period of February to August 2021, 
Unum didnt unfairly decline her claim as the medical evidence didnt show that Mrs 
C was incapacitated throughout this period. Mrs C may be able to make a new claim 
for a later period but she would need to speak to her employer and Unum about this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman