DRN-4080853
The complaint
Miss J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Halifax, didnt honour its advertised rate 
on a two-year fixed rate account. She says it couldnt open an account for her for 16 days, 
by which time the interest rate was lower.
What happened
Miss J, who was an existing Halifax customer, wanted to open a two-year 3.6% fixed rate 
account. She says she visited her local branch on 31 October 2022 with all the paperwork to 
open the account, but the staff told her she couldnt open an account without an 
appointment. She booked the first available appointment which was 16 November. But, at 
that appointment, she was told the rate had changed that morning to 2.9%. She wants 
Halifax to honour the higher rate. She also had difficulties when she said she wanted to 
complain because the branch manager wouldnt log a complaint for her.
Halifax said its rates were subject to change and werent guaranteed. It apologised Miss J 
didnt receive a better service in its branch when she wanted to raise a complaint. And it paid 
her £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Halifax had any obligation to offer Miss J the higher rate  she would only have received that 
rate if shed opened an account when that was the rate on offer. She thought Halifax should 
have provided a better service when Miss J said she wanted to complain, but she thought 
Halifaxs apology and the payment of £50 was fair.
Miss J didnt agree. She said, in summary, that Halifax had made an arrangement for her to 
buy its product at the specified rate. She was concerned with the way the branch was being 
run and the lack of goodwill and care towards an existing, elderly customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and in my 
own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made but no discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. In particular, Id like to reassure Miss J that Ive 
listened to recordings of her calls with our investigator, and I understand her strength of 
feeling on this matter.
Miss J went to a branch because she wanted to open a fixed rate account at the rate shed 
seen advertised. And she says she had all the necessary paperwork with her. Unfortunately 
the branch was busy and there werent any available staff to open the account for her. 
Opening an account can take some time, even for an existing customer, as paperwork and 
identification needs to be checked. So I dont find it unreasonable that Halifax asked Miss J 
to make an appointment.
Its unfortunate that the next available appointment wasnt until 16 November. During our 
investigation, the member of staff at the branch recalled that this was the first date that 
Miss J was available. But that was purely a recollection which isnt backed by any evidence. 
Its clear to me from Miss Js consistent testimony that she would have been available 
earlier, but that this was the branchs earliest available appointment. Whilst I appreciate 
Miss J is upset at the suggestion that she delayed the appointment by choice, which Ive 
found not to be the case, this doesnt make a difference to the overall outcome of the 
complaint.
At the appointment, Miss J was told the rate of 3.6% was no longer available and that the 
rate had reduced, that morning, to 2.9%. Miss J feels Halifax had made the arrangement for 
her to open the account. She says it knew, on 31 October, that she wanted to open the 
account with the interest rate of 3.6%; and booked her an appointment to open the account. 
I do understand Miss Js frustration, but I dont agree with her. Halifax booked an 
appointment for her to open a fixed rate account, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Halifax guaranteed the rate for Miss J. And the advertised rate was subject to change.
Miss J has explained to our investigator how, in view of her age and the fact that she has to 
use public transport, it involved some effort for her to get into the branch. Ive not seen 
evidence that she shared this with branch staff on 31 October. So I cant conclude Halifax 
should have treated her differently when she visited the branch on 31 October.
Halifax didnt provide a good enough service on 16 November when she wanted to log a 
complaint. But Im satisfied that Halifax has recognised this and paid her £50 by way of an 
apology. I think that is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman