DRN-3990148
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr T complain about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his 
insurance claim for malicious damage to his property. The claim itself was dealt with by loss 
adjusters though for convenience I shall refer to Aviva throughout.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr T are the tenants of their property. In May 2021 while they were in the house a 
brick was thrown through the lounge window, breaking it, and causing internal damage to a 
downstairs bathroom. The following day another object was thrown through an upstairs 
window, causing more damage.
Mr T reported a claim to Aviva in July 2021. Aviva appointed loss adjusters to consider the 
claim. A witness statement was taken from Mr T and he supplied quotes for damage to the 
blinds and items in the bathroom. 
There was then some delay by the loss adjusters. A report was drawn up and in late 
September Mr T was written to advising him that in respect of the bathroom fittings, as the 
policy was for contents only, Aviva could only pay out if he had paid the cost of those items 
himself. With regard to the rest of the claim Aviva said that in light of a quote for the blinds 
supplied by Mr T predating the incident, it considered Mr Ts actions to be a breach of the 
fraud conditions of the policy. The claim was declined and later Aviva advised Mr T that it 
would be cancelling the policy.
In November 2021 Aviva issued a final response to Mr Ts complaint advising that it felt that 
the delays were justified. However in respect of the repudiation of the claim, it had asked its 
loss adjusters to look at this again. It said it would reinstate the policy.
The said letter was sent both by recorded delivery and ordinary post, unfortunately by 
mistake to the wrong address (the next door neighbour). When Aviva became aware of this it 
told the neighbour to destroy the letters. The neighbour said they hadnt opened the letters 
and provided photos of the unopened letters. 
Mr T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service in January 2022. He didnt accept the 
explanation for the misaddressed letters. He also added that the way the claim had been 
handled had caused extreme stress to him and his mother, who had recently been admitted 
to hospital with a heart attack which he said was caused by the stress.
In February 2022 Aviva said it would be moving to settle the claim for the contents items.
Our Investigator reviewed the handling of the claim and said that Aviva had wrongly accused 
Mr T of fraud. For this and the stress caused she proposed that Aviva pay £100 
compensation. She further said for the delays in processing the claim, Aviva should pay £50 
compensation. In respect of the misaddressed letter she proposed that Aviva pay a further 
£100 compensation. This was a total of £250.
Aviva accepted the Investigators view.
Mr T remained unhappy with the way the misaddressed letters had been handled, and asked 
for a decision by an Ombudsman.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
accusation of fraud/ cancellation of the policy
To accuse a consumer of fraud is a serious matter. So the Insurer would need to produce 
clear evidence that fraud has been committed, if the consumer was attempting to claim for 
something they werent entitled to or had exaggerated the claim.
Here Mr T produced a quote from a blind supplier which predated the claim and concerned 
an earlier claim on the policy. So the loss adjusters made the assumption that Mr T was 
attempting to use that quote to justify the pay-out here. They took a witness statement from 
Mr T where he explained it was a mistake. He had also contacted the blind supplier to set up 
an appointment, and provided photos of the damage. Because of the Covid 19 situation at 
the time the loss adjusters couldnt carry out a site visit.
I think Aviva was right to overturn the loss adjusters view that fraud had been committed. I 
dont think the evidence was persuasive enough to show that. I can understand that this 
caused Mr T and Mrs C stress. 
Ive also reviewed the medical evidence concerning Mrs C. Im sorry to see that she has 
been so unwell. But I cant say the evidence shows that her illness is directly linked to the 
way the claim was handled. I acknowledge the stress caused to both her and Mr T, and I can 
well understand the shock of the way their house was damaged. 
But in terms of the way the claim was handled, I think Aviva rectified its mistake within a few 
weeks and agreed payment for the claim soon after that. So I think the £100 compensation 
proposed for this is fair and reasonable. 
delay
After the claim was made, a witness statement drawn up, although the loss adjuster drew up 
a report the case didnt progress from early August until the end of September 2022, with 
Mr T sending email reminders in the meantime.  While appreciating that the case did need 
careful investigation, the reporting loss adjuster had formed a view on it by 9 August, so it 
was effectively delayed by about six weeks. Ive noted the Investigators proposal that Mr T 
be paid £50 compensation in respect of this, which I think is reasonable. 
sending letters to the wrong address
Aviva sent two letters to a wrong address at the same time, one by recorded delivery. Aviva 
said that the neighbour who received the letters contacted it. I can see from the photos of the 
unopened letters that the business name was clearly on the outside of the letter and the 
recorded delivery slip had a reference on it.
While I appreciate that Mr T doubts the story, I dont think there is anything else that I can 
ask Aviva to do. I havent seen or heard of any evidence that the neighbour read the 
contents of the letters. I think in the circumstances Aviva did the right thing in asking the neighbour to destroy the letters. I understand it had no guarantee that this was done, but I 
have to look at the situation as it is  it would have been upsetting for Mr T and Mrs C to be 
told the letter with personal information had been sent to the wrong address. But I cant 
award compensation for what might have happened or what the neighbour might have done.  
So in the circumstances I think the compensation of £100 proposed for this is reasonable.
I understand Mr T still wants to pursue Aviva for a breach of the Data Protection Act. I should 
emphasise that although I can look at the circumstances and award compensation, I cant 
make finding of a breach of the Data Protection Act. If Mr T wants to pursue this, he should 
get in contact with the Information Commissioners Office.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay Mrs C and Mr T a total of £250 compensation. If it has already paid 
this it doesnt need to take any further action. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman