The complaint
Mr K is complaining that he doesnt think esure Insurance Limited (esure) didnt pay a fair 
market value for his car, when he made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K made a claim to his insurer esure, following an accident where his car was written off in 
October 2019.
esure agreed to settle this by paying Mr K £5,279, which it considered to be the market value 
of the car prior to the accident.
Mr K thought this was too low and said that he wasnt able to replace the car with one of a 
similar style, age, mileage and condition. However, esure said it had reached its valuation 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr K asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator explained that we dont decide a 
valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its valuation reasonably and in line 
with the policy. She looked at four relevant motor trade guides and found that the value was 
within the range given by the guides.  
Unhappy with this, Mr K asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. He maintained that value given didnt take into account the rare specification of the 
car and that he wasnt able to find a similar replacement for the same value. He was also 
unhappy that the value was considerably lower than the £6,750 that he paid for the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy says that in the event of the car being damaged, the most that esure will pay is 
the its pre-accident market value. The policy defines this as the amount you could 
reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your 
accident or loss. The policy doesnt cover Mr K for the price he paid for the car and I think 
the market value put forward by esure is reasonable and Ill now explain why.
We dont value cars, but we look at whether the insurer have acted fairly and reasonably in 
doing so. We think a fair way of doing this is to look at the valuations in the relevant trade 
guides. We generally find these persuasive as theyre based on extensive nationwide 
research into the likely selling prices of cars. 
DRN-1303724The guides also take account a cars mileage and any extras when giving a valuation. Ive 
reviewed the values across four guides, which value the car between £5,025 and £5,956. As 
the amount esure offered is within the range of values the guides suggest, I think its a fair 
and reasonable valuation.
Mr K has mentioned the asking price for cars that he considers to be a similar specification 
to his. We dont generally find these as persuasive as the guides, as advertised prices are 
usually subject to negotiation. Small differences between cars can lead to large differences 
in their asking price. Its also the case that extras dont always mean higher selling prices, 
but they may inflate asking prices. 
Mr K has stated that his car was rare, and that with its specific features and condition, should 
have a higher value. Whilst I appreciate how much his car meant to him, such features dont 
necessarily increase its value. The guides have taken the extras of the car into account - but 
individual extras can sometimes decrease its value in the eyes of some potential buyers.
Ive taken Mr Ks comments into account about how much he paid the car when he bought it. 
But esures valuation of the car was within the range of trade guides valuations, so I dont 
think its unreasonable. I think its acted fairly and reasonably and settled this claim in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Im not going to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman