DRN-2706641
The complaint
 Mr W is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr W was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £9,000 over 60 months; with monthly repayments 
of £303.44. At the time, the car was just over six years old and had done 94,900 miles.
Mr W said the car had various faults, and hes had to have it repaired several times. He said 
hes had the fuel pressure sensor replaced twice, the gearbox serviced. Hes also said that 
the car goes into limp mode, its got a faulty start/stop feature, and it didnt have heated 
seats as advertised.
In February 2020, Mr W complained to Moneybarn that the car didnt have heated seats as 
advertised; that there was a crack in one of the leather seats; that he suspected the car had 
previously been in an accident; that the dashboard wasnt fitted properly; and that there was 
an issue with the head gasket. Moneybarn said that, because of the time thatd passed 
before Mr W complained to them, it was his responsibility to prove the faults with the car 
were present when the car was supplied to him. And they also arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent engineer.
The independent engineer said the car wasnt fitted with heated seats, but that the car was 
in a condition commensurate to its age and recorded mileage. The engineer also said that 
the faults Mr W was complaining about werent present when the car was supplied to him. 
Based on this, Moneybarn offered Mr W £250 as compensation for the car not having heated 
seats as advertised. Mr W wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and he wanted to 
reject the car. So he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the car was advertised as having heated seats, which it didnt have. So 
she thought that Moneybarn should compensate Mr W for this. But she hadnt seen any 
evidence to show there were any faults with the car when it was supplied to Mr W. So she 
thought the car was of a satisfactory quality when Mr W took possession of it.
The investigator said that the cost of fitting heated seats to the car is £550, and Moneybarn 
should pay for this. But, if the fitting of heated seats isnt permitted by the terms of Mr Ws 
agreement with Moneybarn, or because of the conditions of Mr Ws car insurance policy, 
then Moneybarn should pay Mr W £250  the additional amount Mr W would likely have had 
to pay for a car with heated seats in 2018.
Mr W agreed with the investigators view, but Moneybarn didnt respond. So this has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr W to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr W took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 13 March 2020. This says that 
the current mileage on the car was 113,908, so the car had travelled 19,008 miles in the 17-
months itd been in Mr Ws possession. While the engineer confirmed that the car wasnt 
fitted with heated seats, he also said that there was no evidence of any cylinder head 
gasket failure or evidence of any impact damage to the instrument cluster or dials. The 
engineer concluded that on the balance of probability the faults reported would not have 
been developing at finance inception.
Mr W hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that the faults hed complained 
about were present or developing at the time the car was supplied to him. So Im satisfied 
that its reasonable to rely on the independent engineers report, and that the car was of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Because of this, I dont agree that Mr W should be 
allowed to reject the car.
While Ive not seen a copy of the original advert for the car, the company who advertised the 
car have provided the text of what this said. And that says the car has LOTS OF FACTORY 
EXTRAS [including] Front Seats-Heated. The car doesnt have heated seats, and 
Moneybarn have offered Mr W £250 compensation for this. But, as Mr W financed a car that 
should have had heated seats, I think its reasonable that Moneybarn should arrange for 
heated seats to be fitted to the car, if thats possible.
Mr W has provided a quote for £550 (including VAT) for heated seats to be fitted to the car. 
But its not possible to determine exactly how the value of the car wouldve been changed in 
2018 if heated seats werent part of the factory fitted extras. Given the age and mileage of 
the car at the time, Im satisfied that the recommended £250 is likely to have been the 
difference in value. And, given the lack of any other specific evidence, Im looking to adopt 
this figure as part of my overall decision.
Putting things rightMoneybarn should now arrange to do the following:
Pay (on production of an invoice once the work is done) for heated seats to be fitted 
to the car, up to a maximum cost of £550 including VAT; or.
If its not possible to fit heated seats because of the terms of Mr Ws agreement with 
Moneybarn, the terms of Mr Ws insurance or for any mechanical reason; pay Mr W 
£250 compensation for the difference in the likely 2018 value of the car with and 
without heated seats.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Moneybarn Limited must follow my 
directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman