DRN-3760697
The complaint
Mr E has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under his home emergency policy.
References to British Gas include companies working on its behalf.
What happened
Mr E contacted British Gas when he had an issue with a toilet. British Gas sent a number of 
engineers to fix the toilet. Mr E complained about the repeat visits by engineers and said the 
first engineer had failed to correctly fit a part, so water had leaked from the toilet flooding the 
floor.
British Gas phoned Mr E to discuss his complaint. It agreed to waive the excess and said it 
would look at the renewal price when his policy was due to renew. 
Mr E contacted British Gas again because the toilet cistern was making noises. He said 
British Gas also hadnt dealt with the damage to his floor. British Gas said it would 
investigate the damage to the floor at its next visit to Mr Es house. An engineer visited and 
repaired the toilet. British Gas later reviewed whether there was damage to the floor and 
didnt find evidence of this. British Gas then replied to Mr Es complaint and said it hadnt 
found evidence of an escape of water caused by its engineers. However, it offered £150 
compensation for delays, additional engineer visits and the length of time to complete the 
repair.
When Mr E complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said British 
Gas didnt properly investigate the floor damage, so it should assess the floor for damage 
and make any necessary repairs. He also said British Gas should pay an additional £100 
compensation.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr E has said a British Gas engineer damaged his floor. Im aware British Gas said Mr E had 
a tiled floor. According to Mr E, the floor is laminate that looks like tiles.
Ive seen photos taken by the British Gas engineers at each of their visits. The photos were 
of the work carried out by the engineers on the toilet, but did show partial views of the floor. 
None of these showed any damage to the floor. Mr E said he didnt see the damage to the 
floor until after those repairs had been completed, as he didnt enter the room because the 
toilet was out of action. When he saw the damage, Mr E said he used a metal strip and 
several house bricks to flatten out the swelling to the floor. 
Mr E also provided this service with photos of the floor. I couldnt see any damage in the 
photos, so I asked Mr E to describe it. He said:
The photos now show  the laminate  back together, this is because I used heavy weight 
as soon as it started to swell and warp, because the toilet is secured to the floor this kept 
pressure straight away
If you run  fingers over the join you can feel that the join is not level.
My worry is that any liquid spilt on the floor will seep through as it's now a weak point
Im mindful there seems to be no visible damage and the issue seems to be with a join in the 
laminate. Its my understanding that the join was there before British Gas carried out any 
work, so that would suggest there was already a weak point that might allow water to seep 
under the floor. According to Mr E the first engineer caused a significant water leak and he 
thinks this was the source of damage to his floor. However, its my understanding that it was 
only after the fourth engineers visit that Mr E identified an issue with the floor. But I havent 
seen any evidence that the fourth engineer caused any kind of water leak or why, if there 
was a water leak at the first visit, damage only became apparent after the fourth engineer 
had visited a couple of weeks later. So, having thought about this carefully, I dont currently 
think there is sufficient evidence to show that the actions of British Gas engineers caused 
damage to the floor. As a result, I dont currently think it needs to take any further action in 
relation to the flooring.
Mr E clearly wasnt satisfied with the service provided by British Gas, including the delays 
and multiple visits made by its engineers. British Gas offered Mr E £150 compensation for 
the issues with the engineers visits. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I 
dont currently intend to require British Gas to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 12 October 2022. Both British Gas and Mr E replied and confirmed they had nothing 
further to add in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive considered the responses from both British Gas and Mr E to my 
provisional decision. Having done so, I havent found any reason to change how I think this 
complaint should be resolved. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require British Gas 
to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman