DRN-3189505
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited refused to refund the premiums he paid for his 
private dental insurance policy for the time services were restricted due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr S had annual dental insurance with BUPA which he renewed on 1 April 2020 with cover 
end date of 31 March 2021. 
On 23 March 2020 the UK government imposed a national lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, leading to the closure of NHS and private dentists to prevent the spread of the 
virus. Dental services reopened for some treatments from 8 June 2020.
In May 2020 Mr S contacted BUPA to ask for a premium refund for March to May 2020. He 
said he was paying BUPA for dental insurance when it couldnt deliver any dental services.  
BUPA said Mr S couldnt get a refund of the premiums hed paid, but he could cancel the 
policy. BUPAs May 2020 response letter to Mr S complaint told him that while its dental 
practices were closed most were providing telephone support and advice. It had dentists to 
help with dental emergencies and give support and advice on any dental concern. And if he 
needed emergency face-to-face support the dentist would direct him to the best available 
location for his needs.
Mr S complained to us as he wanted the three months of premiums refunded.
Our investigator said BUPA acted fairly in not refunding the premiums.
Mr S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said his tooth broke, to put in a 
crown will cost him about £4,000 and his dentist did half the work but then couldnt do the 
rest due to Covid-19 but BUPA still charged the premiums.
BUPA told us the only claims Mr S made against the insurance was in 2018 for teeth scaling 
and a claim for emergency treatment on 22 June 2020 and 20 July 2020. BUPA said the 
2020 claim hadnt been paid as it hadnt received any proof of payment or receipt from Mr S 
to substantiate the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr S complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with BUPA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. I think BUPA 
treated Mr S fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr S dental plan is an annual contract and the terms and conditions say that premiums must 
be paid for cover to be provided during each policy year. Insurance policies are designed to 
cover the risk of an unforeseen event happening over the duration of the contract. If no 
successful claim is made during the policy term, an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums 
paid to cover the risk during that time.
Mr S cover renewed on 1 April 2020 with a cover end date of 31 March 2021. Dental 
practices were temporarily impacted by closures and restricted services between 23 March 
and 8 June 2020. This means Mr S would have been able to have the full benefits provided 
by the policy for the majority of both policy years affected. So Im satisfied BUPA is entitled 
to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk of a claim being made during that time.
The closure of private and NHS dental practices was a result of government restrictions to 
prevent the spread of Covid-19. This was an unprecedented and unforeseen circumstance 
which was entirely outside of BUPAs control. But although dental services were restricted 
for a limited period of time, BUPA was still offering its policyholders cover for emergencies or 
remote dental consultations. And where non-urgent treatment was unavailable, it
would have still been possible to claim for this at a later date when services resumed, 
subject to the policy terms. So I dont agree that Mr S paid premiums for a policy that was 
unusable.
Our investigator had asked Mr S to detail the dental treatment he needed but couldnt 
access in March to May 2020. Mr S says that he had a broken tooth, that his dentist did 
some work on it but then couldnt finish that work due to Covid-19. But Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr S contacted BUPA about needing dental treatment during that three month period. If 
he had done so the dental consultation process BUPA had in place could have advised him 
about the appropriate action he should take. The claim BUPA received, which was 
unsubstantiated, was for treatment in mid June and mid July 2020 which is when dental 
services were available. So Ive no evidence that Mr S medically required dental treatment 
during March to May 2020 which he wasnt able to access in a reasonable timescale.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this
case to require BUPA to refund any premiums
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman