DRN-3033965
The complaint
Mr C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
MoneyBoat provided Mr C with a loan for £400 in March 2020. The loan was repayable over 
four monthly instalments of just under £150.
Mr C says that MoneyBoat didnt carry out adequate checks before the loan was provided 
and that had they done so the loan wouldnt have been provided.
MoneyBoat says that before the loan was provided it carried out affordability and credit 
checks. It says the credit checks didnt raise any concerns and noted that Mr Cs credit file 
didnt show any borrowing in the 12 months prior to his first application in March 2020 and 
that there were no delinquent payments or defaults recorded for that period. It said that 
based on Mr Cs income and expenses information the loan appeared affordable. It also 
noted that Mr C wasnt charged any additional interest even though it took him longer to 
repay the loan than contractually agreed.
Mr C raised several points in response to MoneyBoats final response letter, a summary of 
which is provided below.
He had taken out a loan with another short term lender on 10 February 2020 and had 
two defaulted accounts at the time of the loan one which defaulted 11 days before his 
loan was provided. He also said there were several missed payments noted on his 
credit file and he had six credit cards all at 95% or more of their credit limits. 
He underestimated his expenses not deliberately but because he didnt carry out a 
thorough review. He also said the question about other credit confused him and he 
only included his minimum monthly credit card payments not all his outstanding 
loans.
Previous applications for loans had been rejected.
It wasnt made clear to him that he could take out a loan over a longer period and 
save interest by repaying it early.
Because of this he didnt think that MoneyBoats checks were adequate and that had 
adequate checks taken place he wouldnt have been provided with the loan. As Mr C didnt 
agree with MoneyBoats response he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought it was reasonable at this stage in 
the lending relationship that MoneyBoat relied on the information Mr C had provided about 
his income and expenses. She didnt think, based on the information provided and the loan 
provided that MoneyBoat should have known Mr C was experiencing underlying financial 
difficulty.
Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said that at the time of the loan he was 
unemployed and had a problem with gambling. He said he applied to MoneyBoat not 
expecting to receive the funds as his applications had been declined on previous occasions 
but in this case he was provided with the loan. He said he used the money for gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C was only provided with one loan by MoneyBoat and as set out above, it can be 
reasonable that less thorough checks are considered reasonable in the early stages of a lending relationship. In this case, MoneyBoat carried out affordability and credit checks 
before the loan was provided. Considering there was only one loan, and noting the size of 
the repayments compared to Mr Cs declared income, I think these checks were reasonable 
so long as the results received through the checks didnt raise further concerns.
I note the Mr C had made previous applications before the March 2020 application and that 
these had been declined. While I can see this could have been a concern I also accept that 
the March 2020 loan was assessed based on the information received at that time.
Mr C has explained that he was unemployed at the time of the loan and was only in receipt 
of benefits of less than £300 a month. Had MoneyBoat been aware of this I agree that this 
would have raised serious concerns about the affordability of a loan. However, MoneyBoat 
asked Mr C about his employment and he confirmed he was employed, gave his employers 
name and declared a monthly net income of £1,700. I think it was reasonable at this stage 
that MoneyBoat relied on the information Mr C had provided.
Mr C said that his was living with his parents and so it would be reasonable to accept a lower 
level of expenses. I note Mr Cs comment that he underestimated his expenses however I 
can also see that MoneyBoat increased the amount included for expenses by £420. I think it 
reasonable at this stage to rely on the information provided by Mr C along with the 
information received from other data sources in order to establish a reasonable expenses 
figure. 
A credit check was also carried out on 11 March 2020. I note Mr Cs comments about this, 
but the results received showed no accounts opened within the previous six months. It is 
possible that an account opened shortly before the application may not have shown on the 
credit report at that time. No defaults were recorded in the previous 12 months and while 
there was a default recorded in the previous 36 months I do not think this, along with the 
other information received through the credit check was enough to say that further checks 
were needed or that the loan shouldnt have been provided. 
As I do not think that the credit check raised any concerns that required further investigation 
and the income and expenses information suggested the loan was affordable I do not think I 
can say MoneyBoat was wrong to provide this loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman