DRN-2903319
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly rejected their legal 
expenses claim under their Home Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted UKI regarding an issue with a building on neighbouring land. He didnt think 
the Council had ensured the owner had the correct permission for erecting the building. UKI 
declined his claim, which can be summarised as; 
The building had been in situ for around 40 years and Mr H had been unhappy with 
the situation for many years, 
Mr H had sought advice from UKI about the matter in 2018 when he didnt have legal 
expenses cover, and
Legal expenses cover was only in place from December 2020 and so the matter 
complained of started before the policy and was therefore excluded from cover. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted fairly. She explained that it was apparent Mr H had 
been in dispute for many years, but legal expenses cover had only been in place since 
December 2020. As the claim was presented as having an incident date from decades 
before the claim date, and the fact that Mr H had sought advice on the same issue in 2018, 
the investigator was satisfied the policy excluded claims for incidents that began before the 
policy started. She didnt think it was reasonable to expect UKI to refund any premiums due 
to the claim not being covered.
Mr H disagreed believing UKI should be sympathetic to his circumstances as hes held them 
as a home insurer for decades. He asked for an ombudsman to make a final determination 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A general starting point is that insurance policies generally give cover for specified 
unforeseen events. Mr and Mrs Hs policy was taken out in December 2020 and states that it 
doesnt cover claims arising from or relating to incidents that begin before cover started. This 
isnt unusual and is in keeping with the general risk-based principle that insurance covers 
unforeseen events  so thats events which may or may not materialise. And indeed, its also 
in keeping with the premise that insurers dont generally take on risks that have materialised 
before they become the insurer.
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that the subject matter of their proposed claim 
began decades before the legal expenses cover started. And indeed, in 2018 Mr H sought 
advice on the very issue he made a claim for in 2021. Under the policy terms though UKI is 
entitled to refuse cover and Im not persuaded UKI has treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr H believes UKI should help him given the loyalty hes shown in being a 
customer for many years. However, his loyalty doesnt place a duty on UKI to cover a claim 
that is otherwise excluded. 
Ive not seen any persuasive reason to require UKI to refund any premiums paid. The policy 
covers many eventualities and while I understand its frustrating to have a claim declined, in 
this case, that was a fair decision. It doesnt invalidate the policy or mean that Mr and Mrs H 
cant benefit from it should valid circumstances arise for a claim. 
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman