DRN-4310280
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) told 
him about information it needed and handled the cancellation of his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy arranged through AA, which is an insurance broker. 
He set up the policy in early March 2023, with a start date on 31 March. 
On 29 March, AA was asked by the insurance company to get some further details from Mr 
P about himself and the car. AA wrote to him and asked him for the information. It said it 
needed the information within seven days or his policy would be cancelled.
Mr P said he didnt receive the letter.
Because AA didnt hear from Mr P, it rang him and then emailed on 4 April in the morning. It 
said if it didnt get his information then the policy would be cancelled with effect from 0900 on 
6 April. A supplied this service with a copy of the call and Mr P confirmed he did receive this 
email.
Mr P sent the information at about 1730 on 6 April, but it had already cancelled Mr Ps policy.
Mr P complained about the amount of notice hed been given and AAs service. He also 
complained about the cancellation fee hed been charged, but I cant see hes brought that 
part of his complaint to this service. 
AA said it had been asked by the insurer to get the information. Because it wasnt received 
by the deadline, the insurer asked it to cancel the policy. AA didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says finding a 
replacement policy cost him an additional £100 and that AAs service was poor and the staff 
dismissive.
Our investigator looked into it and said he didnt think it would be upheld. He said he thought 
AA acted fairly in its request.
Mr P didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that AA wrote to Mr P on 29 March about the information required by the insurance 
company. I appreciate Mr P said he didnt receive this letter, but I think AA has shown it 
reasonably sent the letter. I cant say I can hold AA at fault for it not being delivered.
Then I can see AA chased up Mr P by phone and then email because it hadnt heard from 
him. This is in line with a best practice approach and this service would advocate using at 
least two methods of communication when its dealing with important issues like this one.
In later correspondence with this service Mr P said that AA told him on the call that there 
was nothing to worry about and that hed explained he was very busy in training for his job, 
so he wouldnt be able to reply immediately.
Ive listened to the call and I cant say I can hear that AA said this. It referred to the email it 
then sent him. I can hear Mr P saying he wasnt available today but not explaining why. 
It follows that I think AA did reasonably tell Mr P what information was needed and by when. 
Mr P didnt supply the information before the deadline, so it follows that the insurer continued 
to cancel his policy. I cant reasonably say AA has done anything wrong in how it handled Mr 
Ps policy.
Mr P has also said hes not happy about the way the policy cancellation was communicated 
to him, meaning he was potentially driving uninsured. I cant see Mr P complained about this 
specific point, so Im not able to consider it further here. If he wishes to bring a further 
complaint to AA or the insurer then hes free to do so, and then to this service in due course 
if he remains unhappy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman