DRN-2276489
The complaint
Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) took interest 
payments when he was on a payment holiday and provided poor customer service when 
dealing with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr E contacted Barclays to arrange for a payment holiday on his credit card account but 
subsequently noticed that interest payments had been charged. Mr E rang Barclays to 
discuss this but was kept waiting for a considerable amount of time. Mr E says Barclays 
never returned his messages asking for an explanation and has spent many hours trying to 
discuss this with Barclays. Mr E is looking for compensation for the time he has spent 
dealing with this matter.
Barclays says that they have no record of any telephone calls from Mr E and the first they 
heard of the complaint was via this service. Barclays agreed we could look into the complaint 
with early consent but said the interest charged on Mr Es credit card was in line with their 
terms and conditions as interest is still payable, even when a payment holiday is approved. 
As they have no record of a complaint being lodged by Mr E, they were unable to comment 
on this but says they have done nothing wrong. 
The investigator says that this service cannot look into the part of the complaint that relates 
to a complaint about the way Barclays handled the complaint as this is outside our 
jurisdiction. On the matter of the interest being charged on Mr Es credit card, the 
investigator felt that Barclays had acted correctly as this was within the terms and conditions 
of the credit card agreement. The investigator felt that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong 
and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr E was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I will be focussing my decision on whether Barclays were 
correct in charging interest on Mr Es credit card account when he had agreed a repayment 
holiday. As the investigator has pointed out we cant consider the part of the complaint 
regarding Barclays complaint handling as thats outside our jurisdiction.
Mr E says he agreed a repayment holiday on his credit card account but he was still debited 
with interest charges on his account. Mr E say he tried to telephone Barclays but was unable 
to get through to them and spent considerable time doing so. I have considered these points. 
While  Barclays agree they approved a payment holiday that isnt to say interest isnt still 
due. 
Under the terms and conditions of the credit card agreement it says, If we offer you a 
payment holiday you will not need to make any minimum payments during that period, but 
you will still be charged interest on your account.  The amounts of interest charged are also 
detailed clearly on Mr Es credit card statements so I cant see that Mr E wouldnt have 
known these interest payments were due. From the information I have seen on the credit 
card statements provided to this service, the correct interest charges have been taken and 
subsequently the direct debit Mr E initiated was also set up correctly. I cant see any 
evidence to show that any payment has been returned by Barclays, as Mr E suggests.
Mr E says he telephoned Barclays in June 2020 to discuss this but couldnt get through and 
was kept waiting for a considerable period of time. Barclays says they have no phone 
records of this call to them. I have considered this point and I have no reason to doubt Mr E 
may have made the phone call to question the interest charge, but I have no evidence to 
support this.
Even if Mr E made the phone call in June 2020 and was kept waiting for a long time, thats 
not to say he should expect a compensation payment for his inconvenience as we all 
experience inconvenience from time to time. During a time of a national pandemic, even 
though Mr E may disagree, it is likely that phone calls such as these may take longer to deal 
with.  On balance, even if a call could have been substantiated, which it hasnt, I dont think 
compensation would be warranted as a result, given the circumstances here. 
While Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman