DRN-3218788
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a 
claim under their home emergency policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr W, as he dealt with the claim.
What happened
Mr W found his shower was leaking, so he contacted IPA to arrange for an engineer to visit. 
Mr W complained to IPA because he was unhappy about the engineers visits, including that 
an engineer didnt turn up and what an engineer said was the source of the problem. 
When IPA replied, it said it had investigated and the first engineer said he had visited and 
found an issue with the shower hose. The engineer said he had provided a quote for a new 
shower and offered a new shower hose as a gesture of goodwill. IPA said Mr W had 
complained again on the morning of when a second engineer was due to visit and that Mr W 
was told the engineer would visit at some point that day. During that call IPA also told Mr W 
he could arrange his own engineer if he preferred, which IPA would pay for, but Mr W 
declined this. When an engineer then visited, he found an issue with the shower hose. 
Although Mr W said the issue was from a pipe within the wall, the engineer didnt agree with 
this. IPA said issues with shower hoses werent covered by the policy.
So, Mr W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
IPA had acted reasonably by offering to pay for an engineer if Mr W wanted to arrange one. 
She also said it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the findings of its engineer and that 
shower hoses werent covered by the policy.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr W has said the first engineer didnt visit. IPA has explained what the engineer said he did 
during his visit, which was that he found the issue was with the shower hose, provided a 
quote for a new shower and offered a shower hose as a gesture of goodwill. I note that the 
third engineer also said the issue was with the shower hose. I cant say for certain whether 
the first engineer visited, but there does seem to be consistency between what the first and 
third engineers said they found.
Ive also looked at what IPA offered to do when Mr W raised concerns about engineers not 
visiting. IPA told Mr W that he could arrange his own engineer and it would cover the cost. 
Mr W declined this offer, which he was entitled to do, but I think this was a fair and 
reasonable offer from IPA to try and resolve the issue. 
IPA then arranged for another engineer to visit, but Mr W disagreed with what the engineer 
found, which was that the issue was with the shower hose. I havent seen any evidence to 
show the engineer didnt correctly identify the cause of the issue. I understand that Mr W 
hasnt had a repair carried out, so hasnt been able to provide anything from a plumber to 
show what repair was necessary. So, I think it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the findings 
of its engineer that the issue was with the shower hose.
Ive also checked the policy wording, which said:
We will not pay for loss or damage:
Any drizzling tap/nozzle or any other part of the plumbing or draining system where the 
water is safely escaping down a drain;

Burst or leaking flexible hoses along with breakdown, leak or damage to domestic 
appliances such as dishwashers and washing machines
So, I also think it was reasonable for the engineer not to carry out a repair under the policy, 
as issues with the shower hose werent covered.
Thinking about all of the above, I think IPA took reasonable steps to deal with Mr Ws claim, 
including when he raised concerns about the engineers. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require IPA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman