DRN-2950819
The complaint
 Mr M is unhappy about the impact of a default which was applied to his credit file by 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, in error.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. 
Mr M had a Cashplus current account with an add-on product which was designed to 
improve his credit score. Cashplus restricted and then closed the current account but 
continued to seek payment for the add-on product. As no payments were received, it applied 
a default to Mr Ms credit file. 
Cashplus accepted it had made an error and offered £50 for what had gone wrong. It also 
said it would settle the add-on product in full and amend the credit file. 
Our investigator felt that a further £50 was warranted as it wouldve taken some time for the 
correction to reflect on Mr Ms credit file and the situation wouldve been very frustrating for 
him.
Mr M doesnt think the total of £100 reflects what went wrong here and would like more 
compensation. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus has accepted it made an error, amended the credit file and offered £50. So 
I dont need to decide whether Cashplus has made an error  both parties agree it 
has. So my decision is solely about how much compensation should be awarded. I 
agree that £50 doesnt fairly reflect the trouble and upset caused by this situation.
Mr M told us that the error on his credit file prevented him from getting a loan he 
required each month to meet his living expenses. Im sorry to hear about these 
difficult circumstances but I agree with the investigator that there isnt sufficient 
information to show that this default was the reason his borrowing was declined. 
Mr M was asked to provide his full credit file but hasnt done so. Weve asked for this 
to give a full picture of the situation as it may be that there are other contributing 
factors behind the declined borrowing. I also think its of relevance that Mr M had a 
credit building add-on to his current account. So without the full credit file for 
consideration, and without confirmation from the lender that this default was the 
reason for the decline, I cant safely say this error by Cashplus was the cause.
So, based on all the evidence Ive been provided with, I think Cashplus should 
increase its award to reflect the trouble and upset caused by its error. But Im not 
persuaded it was the cause of the issues Mr M experienced when trying to take out 
further borrowing. Im satisfied that a further £50 (which is in addition to the original 
offer of £50 and the corrections to the credit file) is a fair resolution to this complaint. 
And Im also satisfied that both parties have had ample opportunity to provide the 
requested information to support their case. 
Putting things right
 Cashplus must pay £100, less what its paid already, to Mr M in recognition of the trouble 
and upset it caused him.   
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited, trading as Cashplus, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman