DRN-3642611
The complaint
Mr O complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Natwest Insurance (UKI), declining 
a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather.
 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mr Os property suffered damage to the 
pebbledash render on part of the side wall of an extension. The render was removed in the 
storm, leaving the block wall underneath exposed. The extension, including the render, was 
built 32 years ago. Mr O contacted UKI to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim.
UKI appointed a firm (C) to handle the claim, who in turn arranged for a surveyor to visit the 
property and assess the damage. He inspected the damage to the render but concluded it 
had been poorly applied and an installation fault. Based on the surveyors assessment, UKI 
declined Mr Os claim, referring to exclusions in the policy for gradual damage and faulty 
workmanship.
 
Mr O then complained to UKI, but they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, 
they confirmed the decision to decline the claim, on the grounds the damage was due to a 
design and installation fault. Specifically, the blocks in the extension hadnt been sealed off 
before the render was applied. That meant the blocks sucked out water from the render 
when it was applied, resulting in there being minimal key1 to the wall.). UKI referred to the 
policy exclusions for damage caused gradually or the result of faulty workmanship.
 
Mr O then complained to this service, saying he didnt think UKI fairly declined his claim. He 
thought theyd been selective in referring to the policy exclusions to decline the claim. He 
said there werent any evident signs of wear and tear to the render until the storm, nor of any 
gradual damage. As the extension, including the rendering had been in place for 32 years 
without any issues, he didnt think the damage could be the result of faulty installation or 
workmanship. He wanted UKI to accept his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI didnt need to take any action.  
She concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the incident. But she thought they 
werent the main cause of the damage to the render, being persuaded by the surveyors 
conclusion about the issue being the initial application of the render and faulty workmanship. 
She was also persuaded by the surveyors view the main part of the house would have been 
affected by the storm had it been the main cause of the damage to the render.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He maintained there was no indication the render was about to fail before the 
storm, and it was the storm that caused it to fail. He said the position of the affected wall 
1 Keying is the process by which a wall is scratched to prepare the surface before (in this case) render is applied, so the render 
properly adheres to the wall.
(there was a narrow passage between the affected side of extension and his neighbours 
wall) meant the high winds would have channelled down the passage and impacted the 
extension side. That channelling effect would also have meant the side of the extension 
being affected more than the main part of the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr O.
The main element of Mr Os complaint is that UKI unfairly declined his claim, on the grounds 
that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the main 
cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to a design and installation fault with the way the 
render had been originally applied. So, the storm only highlighted an existing issue. Mr O 
doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused by the storm. He maintains there was no 
indication the render was about to fail before the storm, and it was the storm that caused it to 
fail. He also says the position of the wall means the high winds would have channelled down 
a passage and impacted the extension side. That would also mean the extension side wall 
being affected more than the main part of the property.
In considering the first element, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-
existing issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, the date of the incident matches that of Storm Eunice affecting the UK, 
including the area of Mr Os property. Mr O referred to local media coverage of the storm 
and its impact. The reports from the weather firm this service uses also indicate dry storm 
conditions on the date of the incident, with a peak wind gust of 64 mph recorded at the 
weather station nearest to Mr Os property. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions 
present at the time of the incident.
 
On the second question, the photographs from UKIs surveyor show a section of the render 
on the wall has fallen off, revealing the block wall behind. While storm damage, particularly 
involving high winds, can often be associated with more exposed parts of a property  for 
example the roof  damage to render is less common. In this case, its only a central section 
of the render on the extension side wall (not all of it) and theres a comment from UKIs 
surveyor that the render on the main part of the property wasnt affected by the storm. While 
I think this suggests the damage in this case may be untypical a storm would cause, I think 
the more important issue here is the third question we consider in cases involving damage 
from a storm  whether the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage.
 
The third question is also where Mr O and UKI disagree. Ive considered both views 
carefully, together with the reports from UKIs surveyor and the points made by Mr O. Ive 
also considered the further representations made by Mr O when responding to our 
investigators view. Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded UKI have acted fairly 
in declining Mr Os claim. I know this will be disappointing to Mr O, Ill set out why Ive come 
to this conclusion.Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, I think its reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) and there 
was damage at the time of the storm.
 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as UKI 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, on the balance of probabilities, I think UKI have done so in the 
specific circumstances of this case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, UKI refer to the following policy exclusion:
This policy doesnt cover
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear
Any damage caused gradually
Faulty workmanship, faulty design, or the use of faulty materials
UKI also refer to their surveyors report, which states:
The blocks to the extension had not been sealed off prior to the pebbledash render 
being applied to the wall. As a result the blocks have sucked out the render when 
applied and as a result there is minimal key to the wall.
As a professional surveyor, I think this conclusion carries weight. But Ive also considered 
the points made by Mr O.
The first point made by Mr O is about there not having been an issue with the render in the 
32 years since the extension was built, and that it was the impact of the storm that caused it 
to fail. However, given the conclusion of the surveyor, I dont think it excludes the render 
being vulnerable to the effect of the high winds at the time of the incident. Also, I think that a 
properly applied render wouldnt be likely to be displaced unless there was an underlying 
issue or weakness. And such an issue or weakness wouldnt necessarily be obvious, which I 
think would have been the case given the surveyors conclusion (particularly as the block 
wall would only have been visible because of the render being displaced). Also, as only one 
section of the render on the extension side wall has fallen, and the render on the remaining 
section of the side wall (and on the main part of the property) wasnt damaged. 
Ive also considered Mr Os point about the location of the extension side wall and the 
channelling effect he thinks may have affected the extension side wall (but not the main 
part of the property). However, Im not persuaded by this point. Looking at the photographs 
of the area, theres no visible damage to the adjoining fence nor the side entrance gate, both 
of which I would have expected to be more likely to be damaged by the strong winds and 
channelling effect than a section of render on the extension side wall. 
Mr O is also unhappy at what he sees as UKI being selective in citing specific exclusions to 
decline his claim (when the policy states that storm damage is covered). I can understand 
why Mr O feels this, but a policy has to be looked at as a whole. Id expect it to set out what 
it covers, in terms of specific insured perils (including storm damage). But equally, Id expect 
it to also set out what it doesnt cover, including exclusions. And in seeking to rely on 
exclusions, its reasonable for UKI to indicate those specific exclusions they conclude apply 
to the circumstances of a claim  I wouldnt expect them to simply refer to all the exclusions, 
only those that are relevant.Taking all these conclusions into account, then on balance Ive concluded UKI have shown 
the exclusion applies. And so, they acted reasonably in declining Mr Os claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman