DRN-1731953
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr O holds with Saffron Building Society. Hes unhappy 
at the steps Saffron took (and concerned about the steps it might take in future) to verify the 
source of funds when he tried to make a lump sum reduction in his mortgage balance in May 
2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instructions from either party to the complaint.
In an email to Saffron in May 2019, Mr O gave three reasons for referring his complaint to 
us. Slightly summarised, these were:
he wanted a ruling on whether hell be able to make lump sum reductions without having 
to prove the source of funds;
he wanted a ruling on whether hell be able to clear the mortgage balance at term-end 
without having to prove the source of funds, and what the position would be if he 
refused; and
has Saffron offered fair and reasonable compensation for what happened in May 2019, 
given the circumstances. 
The first two points are straightforwardly dealt with. I have no regulatory power and its not 
within my remit to tell a business how to operate; that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Nor is it within my remit to future-proof against what is yet to happen. My 
decision here deals with what has happened.
Approached in that context, this complaint is simpler than its been made to look. Saffron 
hasnt singled Mr O out for special treatment. The requirement to prove the source of funds 
doesnt need to be expressly laid out in the mortgage contract. It a matter of law and 
regulation and it applies to all lenders, and to all borrowers. 
That doesnt mean that every transaction will (or must) be scrutinised; as Mr O has 
observed, the regulations give lenders discretion on when (and how) they are applied. But 
the key point there is that it is Saffrons discretion to exercise; its not Mr Os and its certainly 
not mine. 
Ive already explained that Saffron hasnt singled Mr O out for special treatment, and I dont 
find that Saffron subjected him to unfair treatment either. After he had spoken to Saffrons 
CEO, it was perfectly reasonable of the CEO to delegate the task of liaising with Mr Os 
solicitors to the senior officer with the most specialised knowledge of the subject. 
I cant know (and wont speculate on) how things might have turned out differently had Mr O 
not instructed his solicitors to cease the dialogue with Saffron. That was his prerogative of 
course; he had his reasons for doing so and its not for me to question them. But it was also 
his choice and Mr O must accept the consequences of the choice he made.
Mr O feels that his solicitors opinion of him (or his reputation generally) has been diminished 
because they received a call from someone whose job title is head of financial crime. I dont 
mean this unkindly but it seems to me thats a private matter for Mr O and his solicitors to 
deal with. 
Im satisfied the offer of compensation Saffron made in its final response - £100  is entirely 
reasonable in the circumstances. Had no offer been made, I would not have awarded more.
Mr O doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Saffron 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Os right to take legal action against Saffron over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman