DRN-3052979
Complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2006.  
A TMPP is a type of insurance protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical 
illness cover. The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes.
Mrs F says she was told PPI was something she needed to have. 
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mrs F with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mrs F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs PPI complaint.
I dont doubt Mrs F genuinely believes now that the cover was mis-sold to her, so I started 
by thinking carefully about whether she ever agreed to take the PPI part of the policy out. 
Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system and other documents which, in my 
view, show that mortgage protection was discussed during the sale. The records say she 
agreed to the PPI cover. 
This doesnt marry-up with Mrs Fs recollection of events, but I also note that she was given 
a lot of other things that show - clearly in my view - that she had a choice of having this type 
of protection with her mortgage.
The first was her Mortgage Offer, an important document I feel Mrs F would have wanted to 
carefully read. It says two things about insurance: first, it says she didnt need to take any 
insurance out with the Halifax if she didnt want to; and secondly, it had a section which 
said, Optional Insurance. Underneath this section the Offer set out that Mrs F had asked 
to buy mortgage protection to help cover her repayments if something unexpected 
happened. The price of the policy (per month) was shown directly beside this, so I think 
these things all prominently showed her that she was agreeing to the PPI. I also think Mrs F 
would have needed to include an authorisation on a direct debit form to enable the monthly 
premiums to be paid.
All this represents comprehensive and compelling evidence that Mrs Fs consent was 
properly obtained. 
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mrs F, because Halifax recommended the 
policy to her as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because she seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. She may well already have had some 
sickness protection with her job. But Im afraid this doesnt mean the cover wasnt suitable 
for her. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment and 
secured against her home. So the consequences of not being able to make the repayments 
could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a monthly 
sum of £382 for up to 12 months if shed needed to claim. 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. This 
was all a long time ago, of course. But from what Ive seen in this case, evidence that the 
costs were set out during the sale was presented on forms she was given. Who and what 
was covered was also shown on the forms and I think the cover did broadly what Mrs F 
probably expected it to do when she agreed to buy it. I therefore think she had enough 
information on which to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs F. But to uphold this complaint Id need to think it was more 
likely she never gave her consent or that there were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont 
have that evidence and I think its more likely she tailored the cover to suit her needs of the 
time. 
Theres no evidence the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put any matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman