DRN-4333931
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented in this complaint by his father, complained to Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) in October 2022 about an overdraft facility that was provided in 2013. 
Mr S says Lloyds acted irresponsibly in providing him with overdraft facilities and that they 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Lloyds has upheld irresponsible lending complaints made by Mr S for three other accounts 
and I understand Mr S has received some compensation. So in this decision I am looking 
only at Lloydss actions in relation to overdraft lending that was granted on the account 
number ending 468.
Lloyds initially provided Mr S with an overdraft facility in June 2013. In October 2019 Mr S 
requested and was granted a £1,900 overdraft. The overdraft was then fully repaid by Mr S 
by October 2020 when it was set back to zero. It was then closed. But in September 2022 
Mr S applied for a new £1,000 overdraft which was first increased to £1,500 and then 
£1,550.
Mr S and his father complain that Lloyds acted irresponsibly in granting him an overdraft in 
2019 and then in 2022. He says it didnt take into account his personal situation. 
In line with the rules under which we operate, Lloyds said it wouldnt be looking into some of 
what happened with the overdraft because the complaint had been made more than six 
years since the initial overdraft had been agreed and more than three years since Mr S had 
taken steps to reduce his overdraft, in October 2017.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Lloyds had told us. And she thought
Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably in relation to the overdraft lending that had taken place in 
2019 and 2022. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld.  
As Mr S and his father disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Having carefully considered everything provided, and while I appreciate that at least part of 
this complaint is finely balanced, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S
could afford to repay before agreeing to any credit. Our website sets out what we typically
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds agreed to Mr Ss internet overdraft application in October 2019 after carrying out 
credit checks and searches to ensure that the amount requested was likely to be affordable. 
Lloyds later went on to set up a repayment plan after Mr S had contacted Lloyds for help 
with repaying the overdraft and explained about his health situation. However, Ive not seen 
evidence to show or suggest that a request was made to place any restrictions on the 
account, such as in relation to lending limits, at that time. 
In September 2022 Mr S arranged a new overdraft by way of a further internet application. 
This was agreed by Lloyds and then at Mr Ss request increased from £1,000 to £1,500 the 
same day and then to £1,550 three days later. The credit checks and searches carried out 
by Lloyds again suggested that the amounts requested were affordable. Having said that, 
Im mindful that Mr S had made three applications within a very short period of time. And in 
these circumstances, I think there is an argument for saying that Lloyds should have taken a 
closer look at Mr Ss circumstances before agreeing to the increases. But on the other hand I 
can see that Mr S had generally been managing his account relatively well and there were 
no significant factors that would have caused Lloyds concern  although there appears to 
have been one recent returned payment.
Soon after applying for the overdraft Mr S contacted Lloyds to explain his reason for applying 
and requesting the increases, referring to recent family events and also health factors that 
might have adversely affected him and influenced his actions.
Having looked through Mr Ss 2022 bank statements in the lead up to the limit increases 
being provided, I dont think that there was anything unusually concerning during this period 
of time to suggest that the facility ought not to have been granted, or that further checks 
should have been carried out. And there wasnt anything in Mr Ss account transactions 
which suggested Mr S may have misrepresented his financial situation. And I think given the 
level of disposable income Mr S appears to have had at the relevant time, I suspect it was 
possible for Lloyds to readily agree each of the overdraft limit increases without any delay. 
As mentioned already, I have seen that Mr S had approached Lloyds in 2019 for help with 
paying off his previous overdraft. He had then kept to the arrangement that was put in place 
and paid off his previous overdraft within 12 months. He was very upfront about his 
circumstances in relation to his sole source of income being by way of state benefits as well 
as his declining health situation. So whilst I do have some concerns as to whether, in 2022, 
Lloydss checks ought to have perhaps included delaying the increases and conducting 
further checks, the bank statement information Ive seen supports his income and 
expenditure information and his ability to repay the overdraft and its increases. And Ive seen there were no restrictions in place at that point to prevent or require further checks before 
agreeing further lending. 
It follows that on balance I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr S unfairly or irresponsibly when 
providing him with the 2019 and 2022 overdraft and limit increases. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S and his father. But I hope they will  
understand the reasons for my decision and that they at least feel their concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman