DRN-2830740
The complaint
Mr L says Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd (L&G) delayed the transfer 
of his pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and caused him an ongoing 
financial loss. L&G accepts responsibility for the delay but disputes the compensation sought 
by Mr L.
What happened
In summary:
Mr L had a change of circumstances in early 2020. Prior to this, he says he had 
wanted to make changes to his pension but, due to his pre-existing circumstances, 
he could not. The pension was held with L&G. Separately, he also held a SIPP with 
Aviva and he says the changes he wanted to make to the L&G pension would have 
been to invest it in a way that mirrored the investments in the Aviva SIPP. The Aviva 
SIPP held  Seeing Machines stock (75.06% allocation), Jubilee Metals Group stock 
(17.84% allocation) and Eden Research stock (7.10% allocation). 
Following the change in his circumstances he says he could finally achieve this. He 
decided to do so, by moving both the L&G pension and Aviva SIPP to a new AJBell 
SIPP, by retaining the investments in the Aviva SIPP and by investing the L&G 
pension in exactly the same stocks (and with the same allocation percentage split) as 
those in the Aviva SIPP. This decision will refer to the Aviva SIPPs investments as 
the template investments.
Mr L began the process of moving and consolidating his pensions in the AJBell SIPP 
in March 2020. In the same month he liquidated the pre-existing investments in the 
L&G pension, in preparation for investing in line with the template investments  that 
is, in preparation for what this decision will refer to as the mirror investments.
Mr L says he received, on 17 March, confirmation from AJBell that the transfers were 
underway and that it also confirmed a hard transfer completion date of 30 March. The 
transfer remained incomplete as of 8 June, when Mr L complained to L&G. He 
highlighted that a significant consequence of the delay was that he had been unable 
to make the mirror investments since March, had held the liquidated cash since then, 
had been out of the markets since then and had lost investment opportunities and 
potential gains from those opportunities. The L&G pension, in cash, was released to 
AJBell on the following date (9 June) and, after BACS clearing, was received by 
AJBell on 12 June.
L&Gs position in response to Mr Ls complaint is mainly that:
He liquidated his pension on 25 March, but he could have invested the cash 
proceeds at any time up to the point the transfer was completed. He says he tried to 
change his fund portfolio online and encountered system problems, but it has found 
no evidence of such problems, no record of him reporting such problems and no 
record of the failed attempts he claims.
It accepts that the transfer was delayed, causing its late completion in June, and that 
the delay was avoidable. It began the process on 27 March. Its internal Service Level 
Agreement (SLA) for pension transfers should have meant completion  to the point 
of release  in five working days, and then a period for BACS clearing to follow.
It accepts responsibility for the delay up to 12 June but disputes responsibility for 
what happened to the transferred pension cash thereafter  especially as, it argues, 
Mr L faced a further delay in investing the cash due to AJBells inaction. Based on 
the application of its SLA for transfer times and on receipt of his request on 27 
March, the transfer should have been completed by 7 April. The transfer value (TV) 
that would have applied was £18,873.18. The TV that applied when the transfer was 
completed in June was £18,877.70. Had AJBell received the pension without delay 
the original TV would have been worth £19,453.07 by 12 June, when the late transfer 
was received by AJBell. Therefore, Mr Ls financial loss is no more than the 
difference of £575.79. This is the compensation amount he is entitled to. It has also 
paid him £200 as compensation for the trouble and upset the delay caused him.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She reached the following, main, 
conclusions:
Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. In addition to the £200 that has been paid to him 
for trouble and upset, he should be compensated for financial loss to date.
L&G is responsible for the unreasonable and avoidable delay to the transfer of Mr Ls 
pension to the AJBell SIPP.
Based on application of the five working days transfer time, in L&Gs SLA, and 
application of the same three working days for BACS clearing that applied in June, 
the transfer should/would have been released to and received by AJBell on 7 April 
2020 but for L&Gs delay. Despite Mr Ls argument that he would have invested the 
transferred cash at the best market entry point he could find, 7 April 2020 is the start 
date for calculating redress because it is the date he would probably have invested 
the transferred cash, but for the delay.
Both parties had objections to and/or queries about the investigators conclusions and they 
retained these objections/queries when the case was referred to me. I issued preliminary 
findings on the complaint, which the investigator shared with both parties. I said as follows:
I have considered evidence in this case and I have reached a number of preliminary 
findings. I also have a few enquiries, the response to which might (or might not) alter my 
findings. I summarise both (findings and enquiries) as follows:
1. The case is only or mainly about redress/compensation. L&G concedes its 
responsibility for the delay in transferring Mr Ls pension cash to AJBell and it 
concedes that the delay happened within the period starting 27 March 2020 (when 
the transfer began) and ending 12 June 2020 (when the transfer was fully completed, 
following release by L&G on 9 June and then application of BACS clearing). Mr L 
appears to agree the same  that is, that the delay happened within the period 
starting 27 March 2020 and ending 12 June 2020. It is also not in dispute that Mr L 
intended to use the cash to invest in a manner that mirrored investments already in 
or being transferred into his AJBell SIPP (the template investments) and that he 
would have done so, but for the delay.2. I agree with the investigators finding that the start date for calculating redress 
should be 7 April 2020, being the date within the aforementioned period that the 
effect of the delay began. This finding is based on the notion that, but for the delay, 
the transfer that began on 27 March 2020 would have been completed on 7 April 
2020. It is reasonably based on the application of the five working days time limit (for 
transfers) set out in L&Gs internal Service Level Agreement (SLA) and, in addition, 
a period of time for BACS clearing of the transferred cash before receipt by AJBell. I 
agree with the investigators use of the three working days the BACS clearing 
process took in June, as a basis for how long it probably would have taken in April. I 
am aware of Mr Ls objection (with reasons) to the start date of 7 April and I have 
considered all he has said, up to quite recently, in this respect. I acknowledge the 
logic in his arguments, which he has presented competently, and I also note that he 
has supported his arguments with evidence about transfer times in the 
industry/sector. However, I consider that his objection is somewhat misguided. This 
services remit does not extend to determining, generically, what a firms internal 
processes (such as L&Gs SLA) should be. It is also beyond the remit of Mr Ls 
complaint  and of our findings  to determine when, with best practice or with 
practice comparable to other firms, the transfer would have been completed. In 
another case, depending on the facts, such a question could well be within the remit 
of the complaint, but this is not so for Mr Ls. In his case, it is necessary to determine 
when, but for the delay, the transfer would have been completed. As such, it is 
reasonable to find that, but for the delay, L&G would have applied its SLA time limit 
to the process. That would probably have meant release of Mr Ls pension cash by 2 
April 2020, the BACS clearing process would have applied over the subsequent three 
working days and the pension cash would have been received by AJBell on 7 April 
2020. Mr L also argues that it cannot reasonably be said that he would have mirror 
invested immediately on 7 April 2020, instead he says he would have monitored the 
market to invest at the best entry points thereafter, so our redress award should 
reflect this and should use a different start date. I disagree. In a different case, 
depending on the facts, such an argument might persuade me. However, Mr Ls 
overall case is essentially that he had liquidated the L&G pension into cash, that he 
was ready to mirror invest as soon as transfer to the AJBell SIPP was concluded, 
that he was already familiar with the template investments (because he already had 
holdings in them) and that the mirror investments were what he had wanted to do 
even prior to 2020 (but was prevented from doing  for reasons unrelated to the 
complaint) and had planned to do since the beginning of 2020.  I acknowledge that 
none of these elements confirm that he would certainly have mirror invested 
immediately upon completion of the transfer, but they suggest, on balance, that he 
probably would have and they do not support the idea that his investment decisions 
would have been laboured. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that 7 April 2020 is 
a fair start date.
3. L&G appears to have previously calculated redress based on a start date around 
March/April 2020, but there also appears to have been misguidance in its approach. 
In its submissions to Mr L and to this service, it acknowledges that the pension cash 
it should have transferred in March/April 2020 lost almost £16,000 in value (based on 
Mr Ls mirror investments intention) up to when the delayed transfer concluded in 
June 2020. It also acknowledges that this loss resulted directly from the delay it 
caused. Yet it appears to have reached the conflicting conclusion that Mr L suffered 
no financial disadvantage because, it argues, a problem in investing the cash in June 
was caused by AJBell. What happened after the transfer was eventually concluded is 
a distinct matter, financial loss prior to that is also a distinct matter and is L&Gs 
responsibility. 4. I consider that evidence  including L&Gs own concessions and calculations  
confirms that the primary financial loss incurred by Mr L was the lost investment 
gains between the start date of 7 April 2020 and the initial end date of 12 June 
2020. I have considered L&Gs arguments that Mr Ls pension remained in the 
market during the delay and that he could have embarked on his mirror investments 
during the delay (and before the transfer was completed). Available evidence is that 
the pension was liquidated into cash in anticipation of the transfer and prior to 
initiation of the transfer, so it was not in the market, it was in cash. In another case, 
depending on the facts, I could be persuaded by L&Gs second argument.  However, 
in Mr Ls case his conduct appears to have been determined by the consolidation of 
his pensions, in the AJBell SIPP, and the mirror investment strategy that he had; he 
reasonably liquidated the L&G pension for that purpose and expected the transfer to 
be completed without delay; upon onset of, and during, the delay it does not appear 
that he could have foreseen the eventual extent of the delay; I acknowledge the 
argument that he nevertheless could have mitigated his position by applying the 
mirror investments at any point during the delay but there is more merit in 
considering that, after a certain point, the delay had displaced the investment timing 
he would have planned. The market(s) relevant to the investments he planned were 
not suspended during the delay. Overall, the delay led to a change in circumstances. 
This persuades me that his claim for financial loss between April and June 2020 is, 
on balance, intact. He has also argued that he was prevented from trading during the 
delay, but I am not persuaded by this because there appears to be a lack of 
supporting evidence  Mr L is invited to present any further evidence he has to 
support this.
5. L&G also disputes extension of the investigators redress proposal from 7 April 2020 
up to the present time, thereby essentially creating a second end date. Mr L supports 
the proposal and stresses that our decision should reflect the compounding nature of 
his financial loss as time continues to pass. I share some agreement with L&G on 
this issue, as I am not persuaded that a case for the extension has been fully 
established. It is important for Mr L to be mindful, as I believe he probably is, that our 
remit is to make fair and reasonable compensation awards based a financial loss that 
has been established. His loss up to 12 June 2020 has been established. The delay 
that, on balance, hindered his intended mirror investments ended on this date. 
Thereafter, I accept that circumstances had changed and I do not consider it fair to 
expect that he should have made the same investments, but the need remains to 
show that he is entitled to continuing compensation from 12 June 2020. 
6. The task is to address what would have continued to happen, from 12 June 2020 
onwards, if he had mirror invested the L&G pension cash in the AJBell SIPP on 7 
April 2020. I consider that the natural benchmarks for this are the template 
investments, which Mr L intended to copy for the mirror investments. I am not 
satisfied that there is enough reliable evidence about what has happened to the 
template investments  to be specific, Mr Ls pre-existing holdings in Eden Research 
(7.10% allocation), Jubilee Metals Group (17.84% allocation) and Seeing Machines 
(75.06% allocation). If all the template investments (with the same allocations) have 
been retained since 7 April 2020 and to date, then I agree with the investigator (and 
with Mr L) that redress should be extended to date (or the date of my decision), 
because the redress benchmarks would have been unbroken throughout this period. 
I have not seen evidence, from Mr Ls AJBell SIPP portfolio, to establish this and 
such evidence is needed to justify this extension of redress. I invite him to present 
such evidence, or to re-submit such evidence if it has been previously presented and 
if I have overlooked it (for which I apologise). 7. If, in the alternative, the template investments have been changed in any way since 
12 June 2020 I am persuaded that the extension of redress should end at the point of 
any such change. It is reasonable to conclude, on balance, that the mirror 
investments would also have been changed at the time and it would not be possible 
or reasonable to find that Mr Ls lost gains (firmly based on the mirror investments) 
continued thereafter. If evidence shows that the template investments were changed 
prior to 12 June 2020, such evidence could be grounds to alter my findings (for the 
same reasons) about compensation between 7 April 2020 and 12 June 2020, so Mr L 
must be mindful of this  if relevant  and should provide his comments.
8. In either case, extension of redress from 12 June 2020 onwards must take into 
account what Mr L actually did with the L&G pension cash from 12 June 2020 
onwards. What I have described above is the fair value that the transferred pension 
cash should have (either to date or up to when the template investments were 
changed), and what he actually did with the cash will determine the actual value 
that the transferred pension cash has to date or had up to  when the template 
investments were changed. Mr L has provided some information about this actual 
value and I do not require him to do so again  although he is welcome to do so if he 
wishes or thinks it will be helpful. I note this point to give prior notice that my decision 
will include an order to compare fair value with actual value and an order to pay 
redress, in the form of the difference, only if the former is greater than the latter. It will 
therefore be necessary for Mr L to have and to disclose, to L&G, evidence of actual 
value to date and/or actual value as of the point of any changes made to the template 
investments.
I invite the parties to respond to the above preliminary findings/enquiries by the deadline 
confirmed by the investigator. Unless such responses change my mind, the decision on Mr 
Ls complaint is likely to be based on the above. 
Overall, both parties retained the same respective positions they held prior to my preliminary 
findings. 
Mr L responded to the numbered paragraphs in my preliminary findings mainly as follows:
He agrees with paragraphs 1 and 3. He partly agrees with paragraph 2 but disagrees 
with my finding that 7 April 2020 should be the start date for calculating redress. He 
partly agrees with paragraph 4, but he disagrees with my description of a primary 
loss because it does not reflect the loss of compounding returns he has incurred to 
date. In response to paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, he presented his own calculations for 
redress based on a number of scenarios.
He notes that no evidence of L&G applying the SLA in practice has been shared with 
him; he is convinced that L&G favours the 7 April start date because, due to market 
prices on this date, it reduces the value of his redress; application of its five days SLA 
time cannot be justified, given that his pension had been liquidated to cash (so was 
transferrable within a day) and given available evidence from within L&G and across 
the sector showing that the transfer would have happened within a day; evidence 
from within L&G is the fact that his complaint on 8 June was followed by completion 
of the release of the transfer the following day (9 June)  so, within a day  which 
was the same date that L&G acknowledged his complaint; and if I am minded to use 
the factual length of BACS clearing time in June as a basis for how long such 
clearing would have taken in April, I should also use the factual length of time (one 
day) used by L&G to complete the transfer after his complaint in June. Furthermore, 
the calculation of five working days (SLA) plus three working days (BACS clearing) 
from 27 March does not amount to 7 April, it amounts to 8 April. The proposed redress unfairly deprives him of compensation for the lost investment 
opportunity caused by L&Gs delay. He says  The ombudsman disagrees with my 
assumption that I would have monitored the market to invest at the best entry point 
possible after the cash was received. Instead, they assert that I would have simply 
mirror-invested at the point the funds were received. This was perhaps the case 
during the market sell-off in March, when the funds should have been received - 
indeed, this was the intended purpose of the transfer. However, once the market 
recovered in the intervening weeks between the intended transfer date and the actual 
transfer date this assumption is no longer appropriate. It is a fact that he did not 
mirror invest immediately in June after the transfer was eventually completed. 
Instead he monitored the market and revised his investment decisions. As such, 
redress should reflect the probability that he would have done something similar, but 
for L&Gs delay, and it should also reflect the overall opportunity cost he has incurred 
by missing out on market movements prior to when the delayed transfer completed.
He maintains that he could not mirror invest the L&G pension prior to completion of 
the delayed transfer. 
He presented calculation spreadsheets for redress based on same day SLA time 
plus three days BACS clearing; one day SLA time plus three days BACS clearing; 
start date of 7 April 2020; start date of 8 April 2020; and a lost opportunity based 
scenario using the minimum purchase price over the period of delay.
The calculation of redress should reflect how his mirror investments would have 
appreciated in value from the redress start date, to match how his AJBell SIPP 
portfolio has appreciated since June 2020. For example, had he mirror invested on 3 
April 2020, based on how his portfolio has performed since June 2020 the TV of 
£18,873.85 would have increased to £88,137.18 by April 2021, and by a further 
14.23% up to August 2021.
Redress should include an award that addresses L&Gs unreasonable conduct in the 
case, for example  its attempt to manipulate the redress calculation and its 
concession that he has suffered a loss but its conflicting conclusion that he has 
suffered no financial disadvantage.
In response, the investigator helped to convey the following enquiry  
Within your response, I can see you've provided a spreadsheet with your calculations of 
redress under different scenarios. In the ombudsman's preliminary findings (between bullet 
points six and seven), he's asked what happened with your 'template investments'. The 
template investments are the investments you already held in the three AIM stocks and in 
the three weightings the ombudsman stated in point six, from 7 April 2020 to date. The 
ombudsman has reviewed the information you've provided so far and unfortunately can't see 
that we've received any information or evidence to show what's happened to these. It's 
important for the ombudsman to know what's happened with the template investments from 
7 April 2020 to date, as it's likely this will be used as redress benchmarks in his decision.
Please could you provide this further information by the deadline of close of business 
tomorrow? This information and evidence will allow the decision to be more direct in terms of 
redress. Otherwise, the redress part of the decision will have to be more elaborate because 
it will have to provide for what might or might not have happened with the template 
investments and what the redress should be in each scenario.Mr L replied to say  
I included a full list of transactions in the account is included on the second tab of the
spreadsheet. As you can see, there are no changes until October 2020 - the same three 
stocks were owned - ither [sic] than the cash that was sent from L&G being invested totally 
into seeing machines on 29 June, as I mentioned in my responses. Since October 2020, 
there have been over a hundred transactions in the account - on these securities and a 
number of others. Calculating the return between the cash delivery date and the present is 
relatively easy as I know then market value on the cash delivery date and the market value 
now, and I have not deposited any additional assets in the account over that time.
L&Gs response to my preliminary views was mainly as follows:
L&G should not be liable for any compensation to Mr L past 12 June 2020, because it 
completed the transfer on this date and liability for his investments thereafter belongs 
to him (and AJBell). L&G should not be responsible for AJBells inaction after 12 
June.
There is no evidence to support the notion that Mr L would have mirror invested in 
the same funds in June/July 2020 and the markets at that time were not comparable 
to what they were in March/April 2020, so the comparison based redress that I have 
referred to would not be viable. 
Its calculation of redress still stands and should be used as the basis of 
compensation for Mr L. 
It did not liquidate Mr Ls pension, that was done by his choice and his action. 
Furthermore, it maintains that nothing stopped him from investing prior to completion 
of the transfer and that there is no evidence he attempted to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from my preliminary views on the 
complaint. I retain those views (as quoted above) and I incorporate them into this decision as 
my findings. Some of the parties comments have already been addressed in my preliminary 
views. Those that have not are addressed below.
In response to Mr Ls comments:
The redress basis that I have applied to this complaint is broadly consistent with what 
this service would use in addressing compensation for transfer delay cases 
comparable to Mr Ls. I have not seen evidence of exceptional grounds in his case 
which would justify a departure from our usual approach.
I understand Mr Ls arguments about opportunity cost, lost investment opportunity 
and compounding lost returns. They have been competently argued but, in notable 
parts, they go beyond the relatively straightforward basis on which our redress 
approach rests. In simple terms, the aim is to reflect, as much as reasonably possible 
and practicable, what would have happened if L&Gs delay did not take place. Given 
that the delay is the cause of the complaint and of the problems Mr L has faced, it is 
reasonable to compensate him for what would have happened without the delay. Primarily this runs until the date on which the delay ended  12 June 2020. 
As I said in my preliminary views, and for the reasons I gave, I do not consider that 
Mr L should have mitigated his position by mirror investing during the delay. Available 
evidence is that the template investments remained in place, unchanged, until 
October 2020 so the implication is that, but for the delay, Mr Ls mirror investments in 
April would probably have also remained in place until the same time. Undisputed 
evidence is that he wanted to consolidate his investments in this way.
This, overall, is what compensation for Mr L addresses. It does not address and does 
not seek to address the possible variations that might have applied to his pension 
investments in the absence of the delay and in the course of his routine active 
trading. On balance, the safest basis for redress  without the benefit of hindsight  is 
that the mirror investments would always have behaved like the template 
investments, for as long as the template investments were in place.
On balance, I am satisfied with the credibility of evidence about L&Gs SLAs transfer 
time and its application. As part of his objection to the start date of 7 April 2020, Mr L 
said  The ombudsman disagrees with my assumption that I would have monitored 
the market to invest at the best entry point possible after the cash was received. 
Instead, they assert that I would have simply mirror-invested at the point the funds 
were received. This was perhaps the case during the market sell-off in March, when 
the funds should have been received - indeed, this was the intended purpose of the 
transfer. [my emphasis] 
I consider that the part of the quote (above) I have emphasised concedes that his 
mirror investments would indeed have been made immediately upon completion of 
the transfer. In which case, 7 April 2020 is the date the transfer would probably have 
been completed, but for the delay, and is the date the mirror investments would 
probably have been made. I understand why Mr L says the date should be 8 April 
2020, calculating five days (SLA) and three days (BACS clearing) from 27 March, 
because this is the date reached without including 27 March. However, including 27 
March, the date reached is 7 April. It has not been established that the time period 
was to be exclusive of 27 March and it is reasonable to conclude that the process 
would have begun from the date it was initiated.
Mr Ls like-for-like argument for determining probable transfer time in the same way I 
have determined probable BACS clearing time, does not persuade me. The idea 
does not apply to the former as it does to the latter. For the latter, the finding is that it 
took three working days for BACS clearing to complete in June after release by L&G, 
so it would probably have taken the same time, in the same circumstances, in April. 
Mr L essentially says release by L&G happened within a day of his complaint in June, 
so the same would have been the case in terms of SLA transfer time from 27 March. 
The problem with this argument is that no complaint was made on 27 March, so there 
is no like-for-like match to sustain this argument. On 27 March, the transfer process 
formally began, but on 8 June Mr L complained (which is not the same as formally 
beginning a transfer process); the former experienced a delay of over two months; 
but the latter prompted release within a day; they are both part of the same overall 
sequence of events but they do not present comparable scenarios. 
I have already found that it is not reasonable to expect Mr L to have mirror invested 
after the delayed completion in June, because circumstances had changed by then. 
However, as explained above (and further below), my findings are that he would 
probably have done so if the transfer delay did not happen. This is a key ground for redress, and it is reasonable. It does not allow for Mr Ls wider arguments about 
alternative actions and/or using better or best market opportunities. Such arguments 
are inevitably influenced, to some or greater degree, by hindsight which he would not 
have had at the relevant time(s).
The calculation of redress will be as set out in the redress section below and, as 
stated above, it is aimed at putting in place what would probably have happened if 
the mirror investments happened on 7 April 2020. 
I have considered Mr Ls argument for redress to be based on the ongoing 
performance of his AJBell SIPP portfolio to date, and/or with supporting and specific 
references to its values in April and August 2021. Having considered the same 
argument previously, I gave an indication of my view on it in my preliminary findings 
and I said  If, in the alternative, the template investments have been changed in 
any way since 12 June 2020 I am persuaded that the extension of redress should 
end at the point of any such change. It is reasonable to conclude, on balance, that 
the mirror investments would also have been changed at the time and it would not be 
possible or reasonable to find that Mr Ls lost gains (firmly based on the mirror 
investments) continued thereafter.
I am persuaded by the logic of Mr Ls argument but, on balance, because of the 
circumstances he has described I am not persuaded that the argument fairly applies 
to his case. It is reasonable to use his AJBell SIPP portfolio as a benchmark for as 
long as the template investments within it remained intact  because those are the 
investments Mr L would have mirrored in his April 2020 investments, but for the 
delayed transfer. If in and/or after October 2020 the changes made to the template 
investments (and any associated reinvestments elsewhere) displayed a distinct 
pattern, it could also be argued that, on the balance of probabilities, the mirrored 
investments would have behaved in the same way. In such a case, I might have 
been persuaded to extend the period of compensation, based on the SIPP portfolio 
to date as a benchmark.
However, and as I have quoted from Mr L above, since October 2020 there have 
been over a hundred transactions in the portfolio. A spreadsheet of these 
transactions is available to me and has been helpful. It shows no distinct pattern and 
it illustrates quite active trading by Mr L within the portfolio at different times (different 
transactions almost every month since October 2020 and up to around a fortnight 
ago) and in a variety of assets. This is not a criticism. He was fully entitled to trade in 
his portfolio. However, this deprives me of a safe and reliable basis, on balance, to 
conclude how the mirror investments would probably have behaved in and after 
October 2020. Without such a basis, I cannot reasonably award compensation from 
then to now, because there is no distinct and reliable benchmark to use. In other 
words, and instead, the implication from available evidence is that Mr L could have 
liquidated and traded the proceeds of the mirror investments at any time in or after 
October 2020, and in any way. I am not satisfied it can be safely concluded that, if 
the mirror investments had been in place since 7 April, he would have continued to 
treat them in line with what he did with the template investments in and after October. 
The template investments were subject to active trading and they no longer followed 
a distinct pattern thereafter. In contrast, and prior to October, the template 
investments and their allocation splits were maintained as they were.
It is beyond this services remit to consider or make punitive awards. Whilst I 
understand Mr Ls strong feelings about, and objections to, some of what L&G has 
argued, I have not considered and cannot make a punitive award in this respect. I am satisfied that he has already received a reasonable amount from L&G (£200) for the 
trouble and upset caused to him.
In response to L&G:
As explained above, and in my preliminary views, L&Gs delay and failure to 
complete the transfer by 7 April (inclusive of BACS clearing) has resulted directly in a 
detriment to Mr L up to 12 June 2020 but also beyond 12 June 2020 and up to 
October 2020. Beyond 12 June, because the investments that would have been 
made on 7 April could have had gains by 12 June and, if so, their continuing 
performance thereafter would have been based on increased values (inclusive of 
such gains), not the lower values of 7 April (devoid of such gains). It is therefore 
unfair to close compensation on 12 June. L&Gs calculation of redress does not 
address this, so it is unfair. As Mr L has said, it is also illogical for L&G to concede, 
as it has, that Mr L suffered a loss up to June 2020 but to conclude that he has not 
been financially disadvantaged  so it is unreasonable for it to propose only the 
difference in TVs as compensation.
My preliminary views did not find or suggest that Mr L would have mirror invested in 
June/July 2020.
It is not alleged that L&G forced liquidation of Mr Ls pension. He has been clear that 
he did that himself. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to the position he would now be in if L&Gs 
transfer delay had not happened. I have explained above and in my preliminary views (also 
quoted above) my findings on redress and they must be applied to the calculation of 
compensation for Mr L. Mr L is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with L&G 
to provide it with all information and documentation relevant to its calculation of redress, that 
it does not already have. 
The benchmark for redress is the portion of Mr Ls AJBell SIPP portfolio that was originally 
populated by the template investments  that is, Seeing Machines stock (75.06% allocation), 
Jubilee Metals Group stock (17.84% allocation) and Eden Research stock (7.10% 
allocation). This, with the specific allocation splits, continues to apply up to the point that the 
template investments were changed. The calculation of redress  and application of the 
benchmark  ends when the first change was made to the template investments. Mr Ls 
spreadsheet says this happened on 20 October 2020 (the end date), and he will need to 
share evidence of this with L&G if required.
What must L&G do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, L&G must do the following:
Calculate what the value of Mr Ls L&G pension (cash) would have been if it was 
transferred, released and received in his AJBell SIPP on 7 April 2020. [redress 
TV]
Calculate the performance of the redress TV based on the benchmark, from 7 
April 2020 to the end date  fair value.Calculate the performance of the TV actually transferred to, released to and 
received by AJBell on 12 June 2020, from this date (12 June 2020) and up to the 
end date  actual value.
Compare the fair value to the actual value. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual 
value, Mr L is entitled to the difference in compensation and must be paid that 
compensation. 
Mr L has requested that compensation should be paid to him directly. If he 
confirms to L&G that this remains his position and if such payment is possible and 
lawful, it should be made directly to him. Otherwise, L&G must pay the 
compensation into Mr Ls pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation 
cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to 
pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr L in a clear and simple format.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment, or the investments actual 
value, at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should 
be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if L&G totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
For the reasons addressed above, the redress order is based on what would have happened 
to Mr Ls mirror investments but for L&Gs delayed transfer. I have explained the reasoning 
behind the start and end dates used for calculating compensation. I have not applied interest 
to the redress award because whilst that might be considered in cases where there is reason 
to reflect what a complainant would have gained from compensation placed in a deposit 
based environment, in Mr Ls case he was actively trading in his portfolio, so the same 
consideration does not apply.compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and I order Legal & General 
(Portfolio Management Services) Ltd to pay him compensation as set out above and to 
provide him with a calculation of compensation in a clear and simple format.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman