DRN-2775335
The complaint
On behalf of the estate of Mrs T, Mr T complains about the service provided by Nationwide 
Building Society during the process of settling the estate. 
What happened
Mr T has explained that his late mother, Mrs T, passed away around six months after his 
father. In February 2020 Mr T took documents to a Nationwide branch with the aim of closing 
the accounts that form the estate of Mrs T. But Nationwide said the process required to close 
the accounts had to be dealt with centrally and would take around two to three weeks to 
complete. 
Around two weeks later, Mr T received bereavement information from Nationwide and says 
the language it used upset him because it referred to her loss. Nationwides letter confirmed 
it had all the information required to close the late Mrs Ts accounts and the funds would be 
forwarded by cheque. Mr T went on to complain that Nationwides bereavement 
correspondence contained reference to the British Humanist Association but no faith groups. 
On 12 March 2020 Nationwide sent Mr T a letter confirming the account closures along with 
a cheque. Mr T says the letter and cheque werent received until 18 March 2020. Mr T 
complained to Nationwide that the process of closing his late mothers accounts was too 
slow. 
Mr T raised further concerns as closing statements werent sent on headed paper and asked 
Nationwide to return a passbook. 
Nationwide responded and agreed to send Mr T the closing statements and passbook. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and said it had followed its bereavement process 
while dealing with the late Mrs Ts accounts. When Nationwide sent the closing statements it 
incorrectly addressed the letter in the name of the late Mrs T. Nationwide also sent complaint 
correspondence addressed in an incorrect spelling of Mr Ts name. 
Mr T wrote back to Nationwide raising further concerns and asking for compensation for the 
service provided. Nationwide didnt respond further and Mr T referred the matter to this 
service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt ask Nationwide to do anything 
else. Mr T asked to appeal, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T found the process of dealing with Nationwide following the death of his 
mother frustrating. I understand Mr T felt the process took too long and shouldve been 
simpler. Mr T has also told us he found the wording of Nationwides correspondence and 
reference to the British Humanist Association to be distressing. As our investigator has said, 
the complainant in this case is the estate of Mrs T so Ill focus on whether the estate was 
settled in a reasonable manner. But Ive taken all the issues Mr T has raised into account 
when reaching my decision. 
Mr T has told us he was able to deal with his late fathers estate in branch with Nationwide 
and has questioned why he couldnt do the same for his late mother. Nationwide has 
explained that the nature of the accounts that formed part of Mrs Ts estates meant it 
couldnt arrange for them to be paid in branch. The accounts and supporting information Mr 
T provided had to be dealt with by a central bereavement team. Whilst I understand the 
process may have been different to that Mr T experienced previously, Nationwide is free to 
decide how to administer its accounts. That includes how to close them following notification 
of a bereavement. 
Mr T has told us it took around a month from the point he told Nationwide about his late 
mothers death to receiving a cheque for the funds held in her accounts. I appreciate Mr T 
feels the process took too long. But Nationwide says it aims to close accounts as part of its 
bereavement process within 20 working days and, in this case, it sent a cheque to Mr T 14 
working days after receiving the documents it needed. I understand there was a delay of 
around six days between Nationwide sending the cheque and Mr T receiving it. But Im 
satisfied Nationwide sent it to Mr T on 12 March 2020 as it claims. I also understand Mr T 
had to deposit the cheque which took some time. But Im not persuaded that caused an 
unreasonable level of inconvenience in this case. The process was completed within 
Nationwides timescales and I havent found any evidence that it caused unnecessary or 
unreasonable delays. 
Nationwide referred to the loss of Mrs T in a letter it sent Mr T but has explained it didnt 
intend to cause offence. Whilst I can see Mr Ts upset, I think its fair to say that the phrase 
Nationwide used is reasonably common place when discussing a bereavement and I dont 
think there was any intention to cause upset. I can also see Nationwide refers to several 
organisations in its bereavement correspondence, including the British Humanist 
Association. I understand Mr T feels Nationwide should also include information about faith-
based organisations but we cant tell a business how to operate. Nationwide has explained 
why it includes reference to the British Humanist Society in its literature and Im satisfied its 
entitled to decide what information to include when it writes to the representatives of an 
estate. 
Mr T complains that closure statements took too long to be sent and werent on Nationwide 
headed paper. I appreciate Mr T feels the information shouldve been sent on headed paper 
and that some of it was in a format of system prints, but the documents provided contained 
the relevant account information. I dont agree Nationwide sent account statement and 
information in an unreasonable way. 
Mr T also says it took Nationwide around four months to send closing statements. But he 
hasnt told us what the impact of that delay was to the estate of Mrs T. We cant fine or 
punish a business for making a mistake. Mr T hasnt told us about any losses incurred to the 
estate of Mrs T as a result of the time it took to receive closing statements. As a result, I 
havent found grounds to tell Nationwide to compensate the estate of Mrs T for the time it 
took to receive closing statements and information. 
Some of the letters Mr T received werent correctly addressed, including one that is 
addressed to the late Mrs T directly. I can understand how upsetting receiving incorrectly 
address letters was for Mr T at an already difficult time. I agree that Nationwide made some 
mistakes when addressing its letters. 
After Nationwide sent Mr T its final response, he continued to correspond with it about the 
complaint issues raised but didnt receive further responses. Once a business issues a final response to a complaint and provides details of how to refer the matter to this service it 
doesnt have to continue to correspond about the issues dealt with. Im satisfied Nationwide 
did respond to the complaints raised and responded in line with the rules. Im unable to 
agree that Nationwide acted unfairly when it stopped corresponding about the complaint 
issues after it issued its final response. 
I agree there were some errors by Nationwide but I havent found the estate of Mrs T was 
unfairly impacted by them. And, as Ive said above, I havent found that Nationwide handled 
the process of closing the late Mrs Ts accounts unfairly or caused unreasonable delays. I 
understand my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr T, but I havent been 
persuaded to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman