DRN-4298773
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was unable to get a credit balance refund from an account held with 
American Express Services Europe Limited. 
What happened
In April 2023 Mr C sent an overpayment to his AESEL account. He contacted AESEL and 
requested a credit balance refund.
AESEL asked Mr C to provide supporting information. Mr C says he provided this but still 
didnt receive his refund. 
Ultimately Mr C contacted his bank and arranged for the funds to be re-called and incurred 
charges of around £200 in doing so. He wants AESEL to refund these costs, or deposit 
Avios to this value into his account. AESEL declined to do this so Mr C brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said hed considered AESELs internal 
policies and processes for credit balance refunds and was unbale to say that AESEL had 
made an error in requesting what it did from Mr C. The investigator said he couldnt hold 
AESEL responsible for charges imposed by a third party for re-calling the funds. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed supplied all the details and documents requested by AESEL 
several times and on each occasion the refund didnt materialise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed AESELs policy for credit balance refunds. This sets out the information that is 
required from the card member and the rules about where the credit balance can be 
refunded to. 
Ive also reviewed the communications which passed between Mr C and AESEL. When Mr C 
first requested the credit balance refund, AESEL asked him to provide proof of payment. It 
sent letters to him about this on 19 April 2023, 4 May 2023 and 17 May 2023. 
The letters asked Mr C to upload an online scan of a complete credit card statement of the 
originating card number from which the overpayment was sent. AESEL advised Mr C that 
the statement should include certain specified information, including the payment made on 
18 April 2023 which created the credit balance, and the sort code, bank account number and 
full credit card number. The letter also said that the branding, name and logo of the card 
issuer must be clearly visible.
Ive reviewed the chat messages which followed between Mr C and AESEL. It appears that 
Mr C had uploaded some documents in response to the letter, but AESEL identified that the 
documents didnt fully comply with the requirements of the proof of payment request as set 
out in the letter.
Although Mr C has said that he provided all the documents that AESEL required, the 
correspondence Ive reviewed between Mr C and AESEL doesnt support this.
Im satisfied that AESEL were clear about the information they required. Im also satisfied 
that the information required was in line with AESELs policy for credit balance refunds. So, 
Im unable to say that AESEL made an error when it requested this information, or that it 
treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably by requesting this information.
I havent seen any information to suggest that AESEL wouldnt have processed the refund if 
Mr C had provided the information requested. I dont think it was unreasonable for AESEL to 
make sure that its internal procedures had been complied with before processing the refund.
I understand that Mr C became frustrated with the process and decided to ask his bank to 
recall the funds. However, I cant fairly ask AESEL to refund the charges imposed by Mr Cs 
bank for doing this, because I havent found that AESEL made any errors in the way it 
handled Mr Cs request for the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman