DRN-2917442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Liquid Complete Limited trading as Liquid Expat (LE) mis-sold
them a buy to let purchase plan (BTLPP) as a buy to let mortgage. As a result, they had to
pay capital gains tax (CGT) of £9,700 on the disposal of part of their property and
accountancy fees of £2,000 and extra-legal costs because of the complex structure of the
BTLPP. Mr and Mrs M want LE to repay the tax, fees and costs. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M work abroad and wanted a buy to let mortgage to replace an existing
mortgage on a property they owned in the UK. They approached LE, a firm that specialises
in sourcing mortgages for British nationals living abroad. LE noted Mr and Mrs M s
requirements and that whilst they wanted a fixed interest rate, they were keen to avoid an
early repayment charge (ERC) which accompanies most fixed rate mortgage products. On
13 June 2017, LE sourced a suitable mortgage for Mr and Mrs M which was in fact a
BTLPP or a diminished shared ownership plan with a bank that specialises in Islamic finance
which I will refer to as the bank. Mr and Mrs M then engaged with the bank and after an
extended period eventually took out a BTLPP on their apartment. As the structure of the
BTLPP meant that Mr and Mrs M disposed of part of their property, they had to pay CGT and
incurred extra legal costs because of the complexity of the transaction.
Mr and Mrs M say that they engaged LE to source them a mortgage. If they had got a
mortgage, they wouldnt have had to pay CGT and other fees and look to LE to refund these
costs. LE say that it only introduced Mr and Mrs M to the bank and that the bank would have
explained the structure of the BTLPP and if they entered such an arrangement, it would have
been with full knowledge of what they were entering into. 
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that LE 
was only acting as an introducer and that the bank would have provided sufficient 
information for Mr and Mrs M to make an informed judgement on the suitability of the product 
in due course. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a review.
my provisional decision
My view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator and I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
When Mr and Mrs M approached LE for a buy to let mortgage on their property, I dont
expect they imagined that they would be paying CGT on the disposal of part of their
property. This complaint relates to how that happened and Ive to look at what role LE had to
play in this and whether any fault lies with them. Mr and Mrs M wanted a mortgage. LE
directed them to the BTLPP and to the bank. I appreciate that a BTLPP isnt a mortgage but
its a form of property finance and I see nothing wrong with LE suggesting it to Mr and Mrs M
if its made clear that it wasnt a mortgage and that there are significant differences between
a BTLPP and a mortgage.
LE say that the proposed BTLPP met Mr and Mrs Ms requirements of the lowest fixed rate
interest rate and no ERC. But whilst I accept that it met some of Mr and Mrs Ms
requirements, in my view LE minimised the differences between the BTLPP and a mortgage.
In its email of 13 June 2017, it refers to ethical mortgages and that these mortgages only
differ in terms of the terminology used and how the lender sources funds and that this is
similar to how any conventional mortgage works provided that all payments are made to the
end of term.
In the brief description of the BTLPP in that email, LE said: The lender establishes
ownership with you and generates a lease for the term of the mortgage, therefore registering
your interest and percentage share in the property, As the balance of the mortgage reduces,
your percentage share of the property increases. Once the mortgage debt is fully repaid, the
property title is then transferred into your sole name and you will become the sole owner as
you will own 100% of the property.
I find this very confusing. The various references to a mortgage in relation to the BTLPP
product do not assist. But missing altogether is a recognition that Mr and Mrs M already own
the property and that in order to establish the relationship with the bank that they will be
disposing off a part of the property to the bank which is the issue that created the CGT
problem. This advice appears to be geared to a buyer entering a Home Purchase Plan
or BTLPP at the time of initial purchase where there isnt a disposal, not an existing owner
transferring from a mortgage to a BTLPP when., as here, there is a disposal.
So, I dont find that LEs description of the BTLPP was helpful to Mr and Mrs M. It misses an
essential ingredient of the proposed transaction - the disposal of an existing interest and
continues to stress the similarities of this transaction to a mortgage rather than being
transparent about the differences. The confusing of this product with a mortgage continues
to be repeated in subsequent emails from LE. For example, in an email of 25 June 2017,
there is a reference to a mortgage application and a mortgage set-up.
One of the principles that a firm must abide by is that it should communicate information to
its customer which is clear, fair and not misleading and I dont believe that in introducing this
product to Mr and Mrs M that LE met that standard. I also find that in suggesting Mr and Mrs
M looked at a BTLPP product and in misdescribing how it worked, LE had moved from
merely introducing Mr and Mrs M to a lender to advising them on a product that was not
technically a mortgage. So, I intend to uphold this complaint.
The question is what financial loss Mr and Mrs M suffered because of this. Mr and Mrs M
say that as a result of the misdescription they were unaware that they had to pay CGT and
only became aware of it much later after they completed on the BTLPP. The problem I have
in accepting that, is that even if LE didnt alert them to the issue, when Mr and Mrs M engage
with the bank, they are alerted to it. For example, the BTLPP offer of 16 October 2017 sets
out in detail as to how this plan works referring to the various agreements that need to be
entered into including the Diminishing Co-ownership Agreement, Lease Agreement, Service
Agency Agreement and Legal Charge. In passing this is clearly not similar as to how any
conventional mortgage works as suggested by LE which Ive referred to above.
But there is a clear warning in that offer under Important Notice that There is a possibility,
if the property has not always been your principal private residence, that you may realise a
capital gain which, depending upon your personal circumstance, could result in your
incurring a tax liability. This is one of three offer letters I understand that Mr and Mrs M
received over an extended period, the last being 5 August 2018. My view is that when Mr
and Mrs M read these documents, they should have been aware, despite what LE
suggested, that what they were entering into was not a mortgage but an arrangement ofsome complexity and that there were possible CGT implications for which the bank urged
them to take advice. I note that the matter took some time to complete. So, Mr and Mrs M
had time to take advice and consider the matter but decided to proceed, in my view, knowing
the structure of the BTLPP and the warning about the tax implications.
So, I accept that LE failed Mr and Mrs M in not highlighting the significant differences
between the implications of refinancing their property by way of a mortgage and a BTLPP.
LE has referred me to an email from Mr M of 16 June 2017 which suggests that he has done
some research about the fees of Islamic finance conveyancers. I dont believe that I can
safely conclude that this meant that at that stage Mr M was aware of the structure of an
Islamic finance buy to let property transaction. But, given the information subsequently
provided to them by the bank, I find that Mr and Mrs M had access to the full information
about the structure of the BTLPP before formally agreeing to the plan and shouldnt have
been reliant on the brief introductory advices of LE. So, I dont accept that LE should be
responsible for the financial losses that Mr and Mrs M suffered because of entering the
BTLPP.
LE charged Mr and Mrs M fees of £850. They did provide a service by introducing Mr and
Mrs M to the bank, which Mr and Mrs M availed of, but failed Mr and Mrs M by mis-advising
them. In those circumstances I believe that LE should refund 50% of this fee. I can also see
that Mr and Mrs M were annoyed and frustrated by the how LE failed in its responsibilities to
them and I believe that an award of £300 is appropriate compensation for that. 
After I issued my provisional decision, I invited submissions from Mr and Mrs M and LE. Mr 
and Mrs M accepted my decision and LE said it disagreed and asked me to consider some 
further submissions which I will refer to below.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LE responded to my invitation to comment on my provisional decision. In summary it said 
that it hadnt provided advice or mis-described the nature of the product. It also indicated that 
it had more general concerns about the impact of my decision. 
LE was acting here as an introducer. Mr and Mrs M wanted a mortgage. LE believed that an 
alternative mortgage product - a BTLPP - more suited their requirements. A BTLPP differs in 
considerable ways from how a normal mortgage works. Mr and Mrs M say that these 
differences werent made clear to them and I agree. LEs letter of mortgage approval is in my 
view confusing to the reader. Nowhere is the product - the BTLPP actually mentioned. The 
document continually refers to this product as a mortgage. I counted over 15 times that there 
is a reference to a mortgage and only once to an ethical mortgage and never to the product 
that it in fact is. The mortgage approval document inaccurately states that the these 
mortgages only differ in terms of the terminology used and how the lender sources funds 
That simply isnt true. The whole structure is different. Unlike a mortgage no interest is paid 
on the loan. The lender acquires ownership and doesnt hold a charge. Rent is paid and the 
borrower acquires ownership in stages. Thats a lot more than mere differences in 
terminology. In this particular case the present owners Mr and Mrs G would dispose of part 
of their ownership to the bank. That is not mere terminology. 
There is a section which attempts to clarify the differences between a BTLPP and a 
mortgage. In my view this missed the opportunity to alert Mr and Mrs M to the fact that they 
were selling or disposing of the property to the bank and so alert them to the unusual nature of the transaction. The disposal isnt mentioned and in my view any attempt at clarity is 
confounded by LE referring to it again as a mortgage. In the context where LE told Mr and 
Mrs M that the differences were only those of terminology, I didnt find this section helpful.
So, my view was that the document provided to Mr and Mrs contained inaccuracies 
minimising the differences between a BTLPP and a standard buy to let mortgage and was 
capable of misleading them which they tell me it did. On that basis I uphold the complaint. 
There are other matters raised by LE in response to my Provisional Decision. I have already 
dealt with Mr Ms email of 16 June 2017. Mr M may have known of Islamic finance as a 
product but that doesnt make the mortgage approval letter any less confusing. I dont accept 
my view differs from FCA guidance. The MCOB sourcebook clearly distinguishes between 
mortgages and home purchase plans and applies different rules to both. I dont accept that 
my requirement that the information provided is clear fair and not misleading puts an 
unacceptable burden on brokers. My view as stated in my provisional decision is that LE isnt 
responsible for paying the CGT and Ive nothing further to add on that which would be 
relevant to this complaint. I would emphasize that my decision rests solely on the specific 
facts of this complaint.
After reviewing my provisional decision and the further comments of LE, I am content that 
my provisional decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. 
Putting things right
Liquid Complete Limited trading as Liquid Expat should refund 50% of the fee it charged Mr 
and Mrs M and pay them £300 for their trouble and upset.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman