DRN-4178151
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service she received from ReAssure Limited when she was 
setting up her pension annuity.
What happened
Mrs B had a personal pension plan with ReAssure. In July 2022 Mrs B contacted ReAssure 
about her retirement options and it issued her with her retirement options pack on 23 August 
2022. ReAssure explained that Mrs Bs pension included a feature known as a Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP) which had replaced part of her state pension and guaranteed that 
Mrs B would receive a minimum amount of retirement income from the age of 60 providing 
she took a pension offered by ReAssure at her 60th birthday. ReAssure went on to state that 
if Mrs B chose to take a retirement option other than its own offering of an annuity, then 
any guarantee may be lost or revalued. 
The retirement options pack stated that the current value of Mrs Bs pension pot was 
£79,278.37 and that ReAssures own offering for Mrs B was either to take an annual income 
of £4,407.52 plus a transitional tax-free cash (TFC) amount of £4,295.17 or to take no TFC 
and an annual income of £4,518.85 per year. And it went on to state that at Mrs Bs 
retirement date (her 60th birthday on 2 October 2022) the amount needed to support her 
GMP could be £135,765.48 but that the amount currently available in her pension pot to 
cover the GMP was £74,983.20. ReAssure said, Well make up the difference so the 
amount shown earlier on is what you will get. 
The options pack also mentioned that in order to take an income using ReAssures 
retirement offering, it was referring its customers to another pension provider (who I shall 
refer to as L) to provide the annuity. ReAssure said that Ls annuity provided a guaranteed 
income for life. 
On 1 September 2022 Mrs B called ReAssure to ask for further information. She said she 
wanted to know what her annuity would be if she took TFC of 25%. ReAssure said it would 
send her a further quote. When she didnt receive anything, Mrs B contacted ReAssure 
again on 12 September to see how her request was progressing. 
ReAssure sent Mrs B a second retirement options pack on 23 September 2022. A telephone 
call followed on 26 September 2022 in which the various options open to Mrs B were 
discussed namely that she could take a full annuity (with no TFC) of £4,525.92 or 
alternatively take TFC of £4,003.06 and an annuity of £4,407.52. On 28 September 2022 
ReAssure called Mrs B and explained what she needed to do to take her benefits which 
included calling L.
Mrs B complained to ReAssure about the time it was taking to provide her with the 
retirement quotes shed asked for. She said shed found ReAssures paperwork to be 
confusing and that shed understood she could take 25% of her pension as TFC but this now 
appeared not to be the case. Mrs B also said she was only told late in the day that she would 
have to make an appointment with L to discuss her options. 
ReAssure looked into Mrs Bs complaint and issued her with its final response letter on 
30 September 2022. It said the retirement options pack it had sent Mrs B on 23 September 
2022 didnt reflect the request for further information shed made and it said it was also 
issued to her outside of its standard response time for which it apologised. ReAssure 
acknowledged some of the information it provided could have been clearer and it recognised 
there had been delays in providing Mrs B with the information she had requested and in 
registering and accessing her policy information online. For the inconvenience it had caused 
Mrs B, ReAssure said it was sending her a cheque for £200.
Mrs B then had an appointment with L to set up her annuity after which she complained to 
ReAssure again that shed been given misleading information over the last weeks and that 
shed twice been told by ReAssure that she could take 25% of her pension pot as TFC as 
well as taking an annuity. Mrs B said ReAssure hadnt said an any point (before 28 
September 2022) that shed need to make an appointment with L and that it should have told 
her at the start that that was what she needed to do. 
ReAssure sent Mrs B a second final response letter on 25 October 2022 in which it 
acknowledged her disappointment with the options open to her but assured her that it had 
undertaken a full review of her complaint and would monitor her situation going forward. For 
the incorrect information, lack of clarity and delays ReAssure reviewed and increased its 
original offer of compensation to £400.
On 15 November 2022 Mrs B received her TFC lump sum of £3,936.02 into her account. As 
it was £67 less than shed been led to believe she would receive, Mrs B complained again. 
On 23 November 2022, ReAssure wrote to Mrs B to explain that the amount paid was 
correct and that the quote for £4,003.06 provided to her on 26 September 2022 was an 
illustration so had not been guaranteed. ReAssure said its standard process was to contact 
policyholders were the policy funds being paid had dropped in value by more than 10%.
On 29 November, ReAssure wrote to Mrs B to confirm it had paid £98,488.41 to L so it could 
provide her with an annuity for life. On 5 December 2022 L paid her three months worth of 
pension payments. Mrs B then started to receive her pension payments monthly. 
Unhappy with the delays and stress she had been caused over the last 3 months, Mrs B 
complained to this service. She said that ReAssure had never acknowledged that itd told 
her she could take 25% of her pension pot as TFC and she said she was also unhappy that 
the TFC amount she received was £67 less than she had been led to believe she would get. 
Mrs B said she would like ReAssure to honour what it had told her.
ReAssure told this Service that it had been reviewing the complaint and was concerned 
about the delay in releasing Mrs Bs pension benefits. It said that whilst they had been 
correctly calculated using her retirement date of 2 October 2022 there was a delay in making 
payment. ReAssure said it had calculated interest on the late payment of Mrs Bs TFC cash 
at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date it should have been paid 
(17 October 2022) to the date it was paid (14 November 2022). ReAssure said that this 
amounted to £19.31 which it had rounded up to £20. ReAssure also said it had arranged for 
its specialist team to carry out a loss assessment on Mrs Bs case. 
Our Investigator put ReAssures offer to Mrs B but she declined it. She said shed been told 
twice she could take 25% of her fund as TFC. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint and issued his findings. He explained how 
Mrs Bs pension was such that she wasnt entitled to take 25% of it as TFC. Our Investigator 
thought that the reasons for this could have been better explained to Mrs B by ReAssure, but 
as this was the case he was unable to recommend that it pay her more TFC. Our Investigator also thought that ReAssure had made it clear that the figures quoted in its 
paperwork were illustrations and were subject to market fluctuation. So our Investigator 
didnt think it would be fair to ask ReAssure to cover any shortfall in TFC that Mrs B had 
ultimately received. And whilst ReAssure could have made it clearer in its phone calls with 
Mrs B that she would need to speak to L about her annuity, our Investigator noted that the 
paperwork Mrs B received had made that clear. So although ReAssure could have handled 
this better for Mrs B, our Investigator thought the impact it had had on her had been 
addressed within the £400 compensation payment it had paid her. Finally our Investigator 
thought that ReAssures offer to calculate and pay late payment interest (LPI) for the period 
Mrs B was without her TFC was fair. 
Mrs B initially accepted our Investigators findings and her complaint was closed. A short 
while later Mrs B contacted our Investigator to say that she had received £20 into her bank 
account but not the £400. Our Investigator replied to Mrs B to say that ReAssure had 
transferred £400 to her bank account shortly after its second response letter was sent on 
25 October 2022. Mrs B replied to say she thought she would be receiving an additional 
£400. She also said the money in her pension should be available to her in whichever way 
she wanted to take it and she said that a business should honour information provided by 
staff they employ. Mrs B asked for her complaint referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Our Investigator let ReAssure know that Mrs B felt she had accepted his findings under a 
misconception and asked if it wanted to provide any further comment. ReAssure said it 
remained of the view that the £400 and the LPI it had paid Mrs B and the offer to carry out a 
loss assessment was a fair and reasonable response to her complaint. 
ReAssure then informed our Investigator that it had carried out a loss assessment and was 
able to confirm that there had been no loss and that Mrs Bs GMP annuity had been 
calculated using the earliest permissible commencement date namely her 60th birthday. It 
said the delay in sending funds to L had had no impact on the annuity income but it had 
meant Mrs B had had to wait longer for her first payment. 
Our Investigator contacted ReAssure. He said he noted that ReAssure had admitted to a 
delay in sending the funds to L to set up the annuity which meant Mrs B had had to wait 
longer for her first (and second) pension payment. Consequently our Investigator thought 
that LPI was fairly owed to Mrs B for this delay as well. 
An LPI calculation was carried out based on Mrs Bs monthly pension payments being £328 
and the assumption that the earliest date on which she could have received her first 
payment being her 60th birthday on 2 October 2022. As L made its first payment to Mrs B on 
5 December 2022 (which included two months backdated payments) this would mean her 
first pension payment was made a maximum of 64 days late and the second payment was 
made a maximum of 33 days late. Using this services usual rate of interest at 8% simple per 
year it was calculated Mrs B was owed maximum LPI of £6.97. 
Our Investigator asked ReAssure if it would be willing to pay LPI to Mrs B. He suggested that 
an amount of £15 would, in the circumstances, fairly cover what Mrs B was owed. ReAssure 
replied to say it was happy to pay Mrs B £15 which it felt would more than cover any minor 
discrepancies in interest calculations. 
Our Investigator then wrote to Mrs B explaining that LPI of £6.97 was fairly owed to her for 
the late payment of her pension had agreed to pay Mrs B £15 to cover any LPI she was due.  
Mrs B responded to say that whilst she wasnt happy she felt she had no alternative but to 
accepted the decision. The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tax-free cash
It appears to me that, for Mrs B, the most important aspect of her complaint is that she says 
she was told by ReAssure that she could take 25% of her pension pot as TFC (this would 
have been an amount of approximately £20,000). She has said it is her pension and she 
should be able to access it as she wishes. And to put things right, Mrs B would like 
ReAssure to honour what it told her. 
ReAssure has provided us with its call log but Ive seen no record of it telling Mrs B she 
would receive 25% of her pension pot as TFC. I can see there were two phone calls on 
26 September 2022. In the first, ReAssure confirmed to Mrs B that there was a benefit under 
her plan for transitional TFC but did not confirm that there was any additional TFC. 
ReAssure noted that Mrs B wanted the TFC confirmed. In a second call just over an hour 
later ReAssure set out the options for taking her benefits that Mrs B had on her policy, 
including the specific amounts. ReAssure told Mrs B that if she took the second option (TFC 
plus an annuity) she was entitled to TFC of £4,003.06. 
And whilst Ive seen a screenshot of what is purportedly ReAssures online portal, there is 
nothing to denote that it is or what information was input to generate a TFC quote of £20,724 
and an annuity of £203.42. 
But the absence of definitive evidence that Mrs B was told by ReAssure that she could take 
25% of her pension pot as TFC isnt why I think ReAssure shouldnt be made to pay her a 
larger amount of TFC. Even if there was clear evidence that ReAssure had made a mistake 
and told Mrs B, in error, that she could take 25% of it as TFC, I still could not reasonably 
make it pay her anymore; Ill explain why.
The rules around pensions are complex. Mrs B isnt wrong in believing that its possible to 
take 25% of a pension pot as TFC. For many pensions this is indeed the case. Unfortunately 
for Mrs B her pension operates somewhat differently. Hers is a pension that includes a GMP. 
A GMP pension provides a guaranteed minimum amount of pension income for the pension 
holder. A GMP is built up by opting out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS) through an employers pension scheme. Basically it replaces part of the state 
pension and guarantees that the pension holder receives a minimum amount of retirement 
income usually from the age of 60 for women. The GMP is usually the same, or more than, 
the additional state pension that a policyholder would have got had they not been contracted 
out of it (by an employer). 
The pension pot that is built up is used to support the guaranteed income the GMP is set to 
provide at the policyholders retirement date. I can see that the retirement options pack sent 
to Mrs B on 23 August 2022 states that the then current value of Mrs Bs entire pension pot 
was £79,278.37. Under a heading that read, Money used to support your guaranteed 
income the options pack went on to state that at Mrs Bs selected retirement date (her 60th 
birthday) the amount needed to support her GMP (cited on 23 August 2022 as £4,407.52 per 
year) was £135,765.48 however, the amount available in her pension pot to cover this was 
only £74,983.20. Despite Mrs Bs pension being significantly underfunded, ReAssure, as 
required, stated that it would make up the difference so that Mrs B received the guaranteed 
income she was entitled to. Because of the guarantee her pension provided, ReAssure was required to make up what was a significant shortfall in order to ensure Mrs B received the 
GMP she was entitled to thereby making her better off for life than she otherwise would have 
been. 
But a consequence of the underfunding meant that most of Mrs Bs pension fund had to be 
used to support the provision of her GMP. Consequently it wasnt possible to take 25% of 
the fund as TFC because all of it was needed to provide the GMP due to the significant 
underfunding Mrs Bs pension faced. 
And I can see that the retirement options pack ReAssure sent Mrs B also states, For 
policies like yours, the pension savings are split into two categories: money used to support 
your guaranteed income and money not used to support your guaranteed income. The next 
section was entitled, Money Not Used to support your guaranteed income where it was 
stated there was £4,295.17 available. It also said that this was the total amount of money 
available for Mrs B to choose what she wanted to do with. The two amounts - £74,983.20 
and £4,295.17 make up Mrs Bs total pension pot of £79,278.37.
But elsewhere in the retirement options pack, under the heading, Tax Free Lump Sum, it 
was stated, You are entitled to an enhanced tax-free lump sum which means you can take 
more than the normal amount maximum amount of 25%. This is sometimes known as 
transitional tax-free cash. The amount you can take is limited by the amount out money left 
over once your guaranteed income has been secured. Your transitional tax-free cash 
amount is: £4,295.17 [ReAssures emphasis]. 
I have some sympathy with Mrs B as I think the options pack could have clearer. I can see 
how, when she read that she was entitled to an enhanced tax-free lump sum so she could 
take more than the normal maximum amount of 25%, she understood this to mean she 
could take more than 25% of her total pot as TFC. I know that ReAssure goes on to say that 
the TFC is limited by the amount of money left over after the GMP has been secured and 
that further down it states that this amounts to £4,295.17, but I do think how Mrs Bs pension 
benefits actually worked could have been better explained to Mrs B. If they had been better 
explained, any misunderstanding could have been avoided. And ReAssure has admitted that 
some of its communications were misleading. So I can understand how Mrs B felt she could 
take 25% of her fund as TFC and how disappointing it must have been to find out that she 
couldnt.
I should say that the figures Ive used here when addressing the part of Mrs Bs complaint 
that relates to how much TFC she believes she should get are based on those set out by 
ReAssure in the first retirement options pack it sent her on 23 August 2022. Obviously by the 
time Mrs Bs pension claim was processed these had changed due to market fluctuations but 
Ive used them to illustrate the process of paying a GMP and to set out how Mrs Bs TFC 
was calculated. 
So despite my view that ReAssure could have better explained how the GMP worked, how it 
was underfunded, what effect that had on Mrs Bs TFC entitlement and how her TFC had 
been worked out I cant fairly require it to pay any more TFC to her. Thats because Ive seen 
no evidence that Mrs B was told she could take 25% of her fund as TFC and, as Ive 
explained here, she isnt entitled to take any more under her pension plan. Even if I was of 
the view that ReAssure had, in error, led Mrs B to understand she could take 25% of her 
fund as TFC, she would have suffered, as a result of that mistake, a loss of expectation. In 
other words, for a short while Mrs B expected to receive approximately £20,000 but she was 
never entitled to that amount of TFC. But I cant agree that it would be fair to make ReAssure honour something to which Mrs B 
was never entitled to in the first place. To do so wouldnt be reasonable and wouldnt be 
placing Mrs B in a much better position that one she was entitled to. 
Delays
By its own admission, ReAssure failed to provide Mrs B with the additional retirement quotes 
and other information shed asked for within its standard response time. It also said there 
were delays in Mrs B being able to register and access her policy information online. 
ReAssure has apologised to Mrs B for its shortcomings and has taken them into account 
when paying Mrs B the £400 compensation payment it made her. Ill comment further below 
on whether I think ReAssures compensation payment was fair and reasonable given the 
impact the overall experience of claiming and setting up her pension had on Mrs B. 
And ReAssure has also admitted that there had been delays in it paying Mrs B her TFC. 
Whilst it was satisfied that the TFC had been correctly calculated ReAssure noted that there 
had been a delay in payment and that Mrs B had been without her funds from 17 October 
2022 to 14 November 2022. ReAssure calculated it owed Mrs B late payment interest of 
£19.31 for this period. ReAssure rounded up the amount due to £20 and paid it to Mrs B. 
ReAssure calculated the interest Mrs B was owed using this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year. Whilst I recognise that the delay in receipt of her TFC would have been 
frustrating for Mrs B, I think the interest paid by ReAssure is fair in the circumstances and in 
line with how this service usually issues such as this. So I think this is a fair resolution to this 
aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.  
ReAssure has also now accepted it was responsible for a delay in sending the funds to L so 
that it could set up Mrs Bs annuity. ReAssure has agreed to pay Mrs B LPI on the two late 
pension payments and Ive set out above how much LPI I think is due  namely £6.97. Im 
pleased to note however, that ReAssure has agreed to pay Mrs B £15 which is more than 
double this amount. In agreeing to pay £15 to Mrs B, ReAssure has ensured any minor 
discrepancy in the interest calculation that might exist has been covered and it means that 
Mrs B has been compensated for the financial detriment of being out of pocket in relation to 
her first two pension payments. I think this is a fair resolution to this aspect of Mrs Bs 
complaint.   
Drop in value of TFC 
On 15 November 2022 when she received her tax-free lump sum, Mrs B was disappointed to 
discover that it was £67 less than had been stated in the second retirement options pack she 
was sent on 26 September 2022. There the TFC amount Mrs B could expect was quoted as 
being £4,003.03 whereas, when it was paid, Mrs B received only £3,936.02. I can see that 
Mrs B complained to ReAssure about this and that it responded to her on 23 November 
2022 to confirm that the amount Mrs B had received was correct. It also said that the quote 
she had been given on 26 September 2022 was provided as an illustration and was not 
guaranteed. ReAssure said that was because her fund was linked to the financial markets 
and was subject to fluctuation. And its process was to contact policyholders only when the 
funds being paid had dropped in value by 10% from the figure quoted in the options back 
which, in Mrs Bs situation, had not been the case. 
I can see from the second options pack dated 26 September 2022 that ReAssure sent Mrs B 
that it contained the following statement in the guarantee illustration section: The figures 
quoted are for illustration purposes only.  And that further down it says: Your actual 
retirement income will depend on a number of things, such as performance of your 
investment and how much it costs to buy an annuity when you retire. These may be different 
to the rates weve assumed.I appreciate that Mrs B will have been disappointed to receive less TFC than had been 
illustrated for her in the second options pack. However, I think that ReAssure made it clear 
that the figures it quoted therein were just a quotation and were subject to market fluctuation. 
In the circumstances, as ReAssure made Mrs B aware that the figures quoted could change, 
I cant reasonably ask it to make up the shortfall and pay her £67. The decrease in the TFC 
amount was something that was outside of ReAssures control. 
And I dont think ReAssure treated Mrs B unfairly by not giving her advance warning of the 
decrease. As ReAssure explained, its internal processes were such that it only notified 
policyholders in circumstances where the amount being paid had decreased by 10% or 
more. It is up to ReAssure to decide what its own internal processes are; they arent usually 
something this service would interfere with unless there was evidence that a consumer had 
been singled out and treated differently. Ive seen no evidence that that was the case for 
Mrs B. 
Communication 
Mrs B has complained about not being told by ReAssure before 28 September 2022 that she 
would need to make an appointment with L to discuss the setting up of her annuity. 
I appreciate that that would have been frustrating for Mrs B, however, I note that the options 
pack sent to her on 26 September 2022 stated: Rather than offering our own annuity, were 
introducing our customers to [L] who can give you a quote. I can see the same statement 
appeared as well in the first retirement options pack ReAssure sent Mrs B on 23 August 
2022.
So whilst I can understand that Mrs B would have been frustrated not to have been told 
verbally by ReAssure during an earlier phone call that she needed to contact L to set up her 
annuity, I cant agree that ReAssure hadnt made that clear to Mrs B in the paperwork it sent 
her that this was what she needed to do. In any event, I can see that the impact of this has 
been addressed by ReAssure in the compensation payment of £400 it paid her. Ill comment 
on this further below. 
Compensation
Where a business, through it words or deeds, causes additional trouble and upset to a 
consumer above and beyond that which is normally associated with the business being 
transacted between them, this service can require it to pay compensation. Here I can see 
that the provision of misleading information, lack of clarity, poor communication and various 
delays has impacted Mrs B causing her distress and some inconvenience above and beyond 
that which is normally associated with setting up a pension annuity and claiming TFC. 
ReAssure has accepted that it has provided Mrs B with service that falls below that which it 
normally seeks to provide to its customers. It has accepted that it has delayed providing 
information to Mrs B and that some of the information it has provided has been misleading 
and lacked clarity. For the shortcomings in its customer service ReAssure has paid Mrs B 
total compensation of £400. 
When a business has made a payment of compensation this service will take that into 
account when resolving the complaint. Where we think a business hasnt sufficiently 
compensated a consumer (or failed to compensate a consumer at all) where its actions have 
caused trouble and upset, we can require it to pay compensation to the consumer. But here I 
think, taking all the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint into account, ReAssure has 
compensated her fairly and reasonably for the impact the shortcomings in its service has 
had on her. I think that the amount of £400 is fair and reasonable and in line with awards made by this 
service to consumers in similar circumstances where a business mistakes have had 
significant short-term impact on a consumer. So whilst I agree with Mrs B that she hasnt had 
a positive experience in her dealings with ReAssure I think that ReAssures payment of £400 
fairly and reasonably compensates her for that. If Mrs Bs complaint had passed across my 
desk without any compensation payment already being made, it is unlikely Id have awarded 
any more than this. So whilst I note that Mrs B thinks she should receive a further £400, for 
the reasons Ive given, Im unable to agree. I cant reasonably award any more. 
For the reasons Ive given here, I think that ReAssure has fairly and reasonably 
compensated Mrs B for the trouble and upset it has caused her. 
After Mrs B referred her complaint to this service, ReAssure also offered to carry out a loss 
assessment of Mrs Bs pension benefits as it was concerned that the delays in setting up her 
benefits could have been detrimental to her. Our Investigator agreed that this was fair in the 
circumstances. 
ReAssure has now completed the loss assessment and has confirmed that there was no 
loss. In doing so it contacted L and ascertained that as Mrs Bs annuity was a GMP annuity it 
had used the earliest commencement date when calculating it that it was allowed to, namely 
the date of her 60th birthday. L said that because GMP income is related to the 
commencement date, the annual income it was currently paying Mrs B of £4,407.60 wouldnt 
have changed regardless of when it received the funds from ReAssure. L also said that the 
delay in ReAssure sending over the funds had no impact on the annuity income it paid Mrs B 
or the date it was paid from. 
It follows that Im satisfied that the delay in ReAssure sending Mrs Bs funds to L hasnt 
impacted either the amount of Mrs Bs annuity or the date it was calculated from. 
Putting things right
Since making her complaint to this Service, ReAssure has accepted that Mrs B has suffered 
financial detriment as a result of the late payment of her TFC and her annuity. 
ReAssure has already paid Mrs B interest of £19.31 (rounded up to £20) for the late 
payment of her TFC. It need do no more. 
ReAssure has agreed to pay Mrs B £15 to cover the interest fairly and reasonably due on 
the late payment of her first two pension payments caused by its delay in sending the funds 
to L. It should now make this payment to Mrs L. 
ReAssure offered, and has since completed, a loss assessment of Mrs Bs pension the 
outcome of which has shown Mrs B has suffered no financial loss to her annuity as a 
consequence of the delay in ReAssure transferring her funds to L. Im satisfied the loss 
assessment has been fairly carried out. ReAssure need do no more. 
HM Revenue & Customs may require ReAssure to take off tax from this interest. If asked, it 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require ReAssure Limited to take 
steps Ive set out above in the Putting Things Right section. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman