The complaint
Miss C complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly settled a claim under 
her car insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
In December 2018, Miss C was involved in a car accident. She says she was stationary 
when a third partys vehicle rolled into her. So she made a claim to esure under her car 
insurance policy.
The third party disputed Miss Cs version of events and said instead shed reversed into their 
parked car. esure said as there was no relevant liability evidence to show who was at fault, it 
took advice from an independent arbitrator.
The arbitrators advice was that both versions of events were plausible, and without further 
evidence they couldn't favour one over the other. They recommended the claim be settled 
on a 50/50 split liability basis. And so esure followed this recommendation and settled the 
claim accordingly.
Miss C is unhappy with this decision. She says esure failed to consider photos she sent 
them at the time of the accident which wouldve supported her version of events. But esure 
says it didn't receive these photos until Miss C raised her complaint in October 2019 after 
the claim had been settled. It also didn't agree the photos would've impacted the outcome of 
the claim or supported Miss Cs version of events.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She was persuaded Miss C had sent the photos to 
esure at the time shed made the claim. And said esure had failed to consider them when 
deciding liability. The investigator also felt the photos supported Miss Cs version of events, 
so she asked esure to record the claim as a non-fault and to absorb any costs it incurred in 
settling the claim.
esure didn't accept our investigators findings. So the complaint was been passed to me for 
a ombudsman's decision. I issued my provisional findings on 4 May 2020 explaining why I 
didn't intend to uphold the complaint, I've included part of this below.
"Miss Cs policy allows esure to take over, defend or settle the claim. So it was entitled to 
settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. But it must exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably. This is common across insurance policies of this nature.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied esure took into account all evidence available when 
considering the claim. And it took advice from an independent arbitrator to ensure it made 
the right decision.
DRN-1969282I appreciate Miss C says she sent esure photos of the accident. But I havent seen anything 
to show me that these were provided prior to October 2019. Our investigator has asked Miss 
C for a copy of the original email she sent, but she hasn't been able to locate this, and 
neither has esure.
Miss C says she spoke to esure about the photos over the phone in early 2019 and whilst it 
had initially said they hadn't been received, esure later confirmed they had. Ive reviewed
esures contact notes for the duration of the claim to see what was discussed with Miss C 
and there is no mention of the photos within these notes. This suggests to me, on balance, 
its more likely these photos weren't shared with esure.
So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied esure based its decision on the available evidence 
it had at the time. And I dont think its fair to ask esure to reconsider a claim in hindsight 
when Miss C had the opportunity to submit her evidence during the extended period that her 
claim was being investigated.
While Miss C disagrees with ensure's decision to settle the claim on a split liability basis, I 
dont think it did this lightly or without proper consideration of all the evidence available. And 
Ive been provided with no other evidence that would persuade me otherwise.
In any case, esure has since said even if it had these photos it wouldn't have changed its 
decision as they appeared to show Miss C wasn't aligned in the parking bay. Having 
reviewed these photos myself I agree her vehicle isn't aligned within a parking bay, which 
seems to differ to her version of events  that was she was hit while parked. So even if 
esure had received the photos, I don't think it would've made a difference to the outcome of 
this claim."
For these reasons I said I thought esure has acted fairly when settling Miss Cs claim and 
didn't intend to uphold the complaint. I gave both parties time to respond to my thoughts and 
that time has now passed. We didn't hear back from esure. But Miss C replied to say she 
disagreed, reiterating the evidence supported her version of events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm still not upholding this complaint. Miss C has provided nothing new for 
me to consider within her response. And I'm satisfied my provisional decision has covered 
the topics of the available evidence and whether this was provided to esure.
So I see no reason to change my decision, and I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.Jack Baldry
Ombudsman