DRN-2614454
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account, wouldnt let him have the 
balance and registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr G contacted Barclays on 27 September 2019. He had over £2,000 in his account but a 
payment he had been trying to make had been declined. He then found out that the money 
had been taken from his account and that Barclays had closed it. He complained and 
Barclays said it would pay him £350 in compensation for the inconvenience but wouldnt 
allow him to have the money or reinstate his account.
Barclays said that it had a report that money credited to Mr Gs account had been obtained 
fraudulently. It had initially registered a CIFAS marker but removed this. But it said that it has 
returned the money that remained to the sending bank as it was required to do. It had no 
longer wanted to offer Mr G an account. It recognised the period of time before it issued a 
response to his complaint in January 2020 and the inconvenience caused. And that Mr G 
had been given incorrect information about when he should call and couldnt be put through 
at times when he did. And thats why it offered him compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything further. It had received a report 
that the money paid in to Mr Gs account on 27 September 2019 wasnt rightfully his. Mr G 
had explained that he worked at night and was paid in cash. And that he had asked 
someone else to pay money into his account. There had been total credits of £4,200. And  
Mr G had withdrawn £2,000 in cash that day from a branch which he says was to pay into a 
different account. That didnt seem to make sense as he could have either transferred it or 
dealt with the cash himself in the first place. The whole point of him having someone else 
pay the money into the account was so he didnt have to go a branch after his nightshift.    
Mr G had also said that the person who had paid the money in for him was a friend and 
seemed to have forgotten his full name and hadnt had much contact with him. But the point 
was that the money that had been paid in wasnt Mr Gs and so he would need to contact his 
friend about it.
There was no marker now added by Barclays which would affect his ability to get an account 
elsewhere. Hed listened to calls Mr G had made about what happened and agreed that he 
had received poor service and incorrect information. His complaint was logged on 10 
October 2019, but he hadnt had a response until January 2020. The compensation reflected 
all this.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he wanted more compensation. He thought that he should 
receive £750 for the period of time it had taken to resolve things and which he said had been 
going on for more than 12 months. He had been caused embarrassment when turned down 
for credit and had to use a credit card instead of a cheaper loan. He wanted £500 to reflect 
that he had to make a number of calls during the day when he worked on a nightshift. And 
he said that the poor service he had received, and delay should be reflected in a higher 
payment too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr G first contacted this service in October 2019 after he had made a 
complaint to Barclays. And Barclays issued a final response in January 2020. Its confirmed 
that the marker was removed when it provided the details of its position to this service and 
so while I appreciate we then had to investigate things its stance hasnt since changed. 
Our investigator has set out the circumstances of the credits to Mr Gs account. Mr G has 
provided payslips showing he was paid in cash. I dont have anything to corroborate what he 
says about expecting to receive the specific amount of cash into his account on 27 
September 2019. I am satisfied that the cash that was paid in wasnt his even if thats what 
he thought. The person who has been shown to have sent it didnt think that it was being 
sent to Mr G. And Mr Gs clearly not been in a position to show that this wasnt the case. 
That made things complex and I can see why Barclays initially took the view that he had 
been involved in accessing fraudulently obtained money. A large part of it was withdrawn in 
cash that day and an attempt had been made to make a payment for almost all of the 
remainder.
Having looked into things Barclays has decided that it didnt have sufficient to maintain the 
marker at CIFAS. Theres a high bar for the marker and Ive have expected it to be able to 
demonstrate it had reasonable grounds to think Mr G had committed or attempted fraud or a 
financial crime. Barclays decided that it couldnt demonstrate this and effectively accepted 
that Mr G acted unwittingly in accessing this money. Having listened to the call recordings he 
had with Barclays about the money removed from his account without his knowledge I can 
see why it took that view.
This means that the person who arranged for Mr G to have the money didnt send him the 
actual money Mr G says he had entrusted with him. I have to say that the arrangements and 
contact Mr G had with this person do seem quite vague especially given the amounts 
involved. And that clearly makes it difficult for Mr G to pursue this any further with that 
person. But I dont find that Barclays should have refunded the money.
Barclays in the circumstances decided that it didnt want to provide Mr G with banking 
facilities any further. I consider that was a commercial decision made in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and its not one that I am going to interfere with.
I take into account that the person arranging the fraud was responsible for a significant 
element of inconvenience and distress for Mr G. But he also received poor service and 
incorrect information from Barclays when he called  for example being told that the credit 
card department had for some reason taken his money  when that was actually down to the 
fraud department.  He was unhappy to have to make repeated calls during the day when he 
wanted to be resting from his night shift. And I also agree that had Barclays considered his 
case earlier then it oughtnt to have been necessary for the marker to be applied and then 
removed. As I said above Barclays had given its offer by January 2020 and Ill explain why I 
am not departing from that. So, the time since then isnt something I can say was due to the 
actions of Barclays.
I have considered everything Mr G has said. We dont make punitive awards and tend to 
look at the overall impact of what happened rather than units of time. I dont have the 
evidence to quantify any specific financial loss caused by Barclays especially as I cant know 
what would otherwise have happened in the period before the marker was removed. I do 
agree that Mr G has been caused unnecessary inconvenience and received poor service. But I know I am going to disappoint him when I say that Barclays offer of compensation of 
£350 is a reasonable one and I wont be asking it to do more than this.
My final decision
Barclays has offered to pay Mr G £350 to settle this complaint and I think that this is fair in 
the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr G £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman