DRN-3880331
The complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Limited has paid him an incorrect claim value under his 
whole of life policy, which was less than it previously quoted. He feels Phoenix Life 
unreasonably created a loss of expectation and failed to explain why it had initially given out 
an incorrect value for the policy.  
To resolve his complaint, he wants Phoenix Life to pay the additional amount to meet the 
claim at the value originally set out. He also feels Phoenix Life should increase the amount it 
has offered him for distress and upset, as he considers the offer was derisory.  
What happened
Mr D took out his policy in May 1982 with Century Life plc. The life assured under the policy 
was his late wife, Mrs D. The operation of the policy was later taken over by Phoenix Life. 
In April 2020, Mrs D sadly passed away. Mr D contacted Phoenix Life and completed the 
relevant forms for it to pay the policys sum assured  which he understood to be £11,960 as 
this had been the figure quoted within his most recent policy benefits statement.  
Phoenix Life thereafter confirmed the claim value was £9668.28. Mr Ds financial adviser 
queried this on his behalf. He reiterated how, on 30 April 2020, Phoenix Life had written to 
Mr D with the policy valuation. Though it gave the caveat that the value of the policy was an 
estimate, it said that as at that date, the surrender value was £9,747.38 and the death 
benefit (sum assured) was £11,960. 
In May 2020, Phoenix Life confirmed it had made an error in quoting an incorrect sum 
assured for death benefit under the policy. It originally told the adviser that the altered claim 
value could be due to fluctuation of one of the policys underlying investment funds. 
However, the adviser determined this was not the case and informed Phoenix Life as such.  
The adviser then assisted Mr D in pursuing a complaint. In June 2020, Phoenix Life rejected 
the complaint. It said when the policy originally began it had two sums assured, the first of 
£3,070 and an additional sum assured of £12,000. However the additional sum assured 
expired after 10 years. From this point forwards, the sum assured under the policy would be 
£3,070 or the total value of the policy at the time of the claim  whichever was the greater.  
When it acquired the policy, Phoenix Lifes computer system had mistakenly continued to 
display the additional sum assured  at a value of £11,960 not £12,000. But it should not 
have done so. The additional sum assured had expired on 29 May 1992.  
Phoenix did accept that it had provided incorrect information and this resulted in Mr D being 
caused additional upset at an already difficult time. 
In July 2020, the adviser brought Mr Ds complaint to this service. He explained that Mr D 
remained unhappy with Phoenix Life. His complaint comprised four points, in summary:
1. he had made financial plans based on receiving the quoted sum assured;
2. the explanation in Phoenix Lifes complaint response was unacceptable;
3. the £150 offer for the upset and worry he has been caused is insulting;
4. at no time previously had Phoenix Life informed Mr D that the sum assured would 
reduce. 
The complaint was initially closed at this service, as relevant information was not received to 
progress it further. However, Mr Ds adviser explained he hadnt received correspondence 
and in 2021, he asked for the complaint to be reopened.  
Mr D then supplied further comments. He noted how on his two previous benefit statements 
of 2018 and 2019, the policys death benefit had been confirmed at £10,823 and £10,429  
so he had rightly understood it had increased to £11,960 by 2020. 
He also supplied statements, letters and other correspondence that he had received over the 
years, including confirmations of death benefits of £15,758 in 2004 and £17,457 in 2011.  
Further, Mr D pointed to a letter he had been sent dated 29 April 2010 which said:
Additionally, I confirm, [reference] which is a regular premium whole of life policy. On 
death, we pay out whichever is the highest, either the death benefit or the fund 
value.
Mr D also said he had been denied the opportunity of saving or investing the difference of 
£2,291.72 and Phoenix ought to make up that balance. He also felt that a further £500 was 
the appropriate amount for the additional stress and upset he has been caused. 
Phoenix Life made no further comments and did not supply any additional evidence.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He said though he felt Phoenix Life had 
made a mistake, its explanation of adding £11,960 incorrectly to the policys fund value was 
accurate. For example, on 1 December 2011, the fund value was £5,497.65 but the death 
benefit was given as £17,457.65. Phoenix Life had unfortunately carried the mistake through 
up to 2018. From this point onwards, it showed the fund value and the death benefit as the 
same figures  as they were greater than the guaranteed sum assured of £3,070.  
Therefore, the investigator believed Phoenix Life had rightly paid the claim as the fund value 
when Mr D pursued the claim. It could not pay the £11,960 figure as this was not the fund 
value or the sum assured. He otherwise felt the compensation it had paid was fair in the 
circumstances, and it should not be required to do anything more.  
Mr D said he disagreed with the investigator. He made a series of further comments, noting:
though Phoenix Life confirmed the £9668.28 claim value, he hasnt actually received 
those funds;
so yet again, he has been denied the opportunity to earn interest on the claim value;
Phoenix Life has not provided any information at all relating to the complaint;
if Phoenix Life stopped adding the £11,960 to the fund value from 2018 onwards, 
why was that figure included as death benefit on the April 2020 statement?;
the information he has been given over many years is conflicting  and he feels that 
the fund value could have increased to £11,960 as it was steadily increasing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Mrs D had passed away and thereafter about Mr Ds health issues. I 
thank him for his efforts in corresponding promptly with our investigator at what I appreciate 
must be a difficult time. I send my best wishes to Mr D and his family. 
I am very disappointed to note that Phoenix Life has failed to comply with our requests for 
further information and it has not supplied any business file to us relating to this complaint. 
However, the rules that apply to this service as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority do 
permit me to take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested and to 
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied. 
Having looked at everything before me, I also do not believe Phoenix Life needs to do 
anything further to resolve the complaint aside from pay the compensation it has already 
proposed. I realise that wont be the answer Mr D or his adviser have hoped for, but I will 
provide a summary of my reasons below.  
Both parties agree that on 29 April 2010, Phoenix Life sent information about the policy to Mr 
D, including the quote set out in the background of this decision. It is correct that, in the 
event of a claim, the higher of either the death benefit (sum assured) or the fund value will 
be paid. 
It is also correct that as of 29 May 1982, the additional £12,000 sum assured that was in 
place for the first ten years of the policy (to allow for the policy to incorporate some life cover 
whilst a policy value was accrued) ceased. The primary sum assured/death benefit 
thereafter was the one in place from the outset  that being £3,070.  
However, Phoenix Life (and Century Life before it) confused matters by adding £11,960 to 
the fund value and quoting this mistakenly as the death benefit sum on annual policy 
information issued in 2004 and 2011, giving incorrect totals of £15,758.73 and £17,457.
It was only from the statements Ive seen supplied by Mr D from 2018 and 2019 which did 
not make this error. On those two occasions, the death benefit and the surrender value were 
correctly shown as the same figure (£10,823 in 2018 and £10,429 in 2019). Those 
statements were accurate.
However, Phoenix Life then made the same mistake again in 2020 when it issued the policy 
statement with a surrender value of £9,474.38 but a death benefit figure of £11,960. It should 
not have done so. The death benefit remained at £3,070.   
I realise Mr D feels upset at the mistakes that were made  particularly as Phoenix Life has 
explained that it hasnt been able to evidence why its systems were wrong. Nonetheless, the 
policys sum assured (death benefit) was never £11,960, nor was it £15,758.73 or £17,457.
Notwithstanding the upset Mr D has been placed under, the correct response to a businesss 
mistake is to put a consumer in the position they would have been in, but for that mistake. Mr 
D ought to receive a claim value that is the higher of the policys surrender value (less the 
applicable fees) or the sum assured of £3,070. So, in the later years of the policy, this will be 
calculated from the fund value. 
It follows that Phoenix Life was right to conclude the claim value as it did, taking fees from 
the fund value to confirm a settlement figure of £9,668.28. So, I cant direct Phoenix Life to 
pay the balance of £2,291 because Mr Ds policy did not reach a fund value of that level. 
What is clear from the evidence is that Phoenix Lifes actions were misleading and confusing for Mr D, because he placed reliance on the wrongly quoted sum assured/death benefit 
value and he did not seek to question the basis on which the policy had been set up  even 
if he was able to recall it. This created a loss of expectation when Phoenix Life told him 
about a reduced amount in June 2020. 
I agree that compensation was due for those errors. Phoenix Life proposed £150 
compensation to Mr Ds adviser and asked him to confirm acceptance. I havent seen any 
evidence that he did so, but Mr D asked on his complaint form to receive an additional £500.    
Given the lack of information, I asked our investigator to check with Mr D whether the £150 
had been paid to him or not. He has now confirmed it hasnt been paid. 
What this service does is consider if a business has treated a customer unfairly because of 
actions or inactions. And if it has done so, we then go on to consider what ought to be done 
to put the mistake(s) right. In this case, that is to provide Mr D with the correct claim value, 
and to compensate him for the loss of expectation he had suffered when he discovered that 
the April 2020 quoted value wasnt right.
As well as putting right any financial losses in a complaint (though there are none in this 
circumstance), we also consider the emotional or practical impact of any errors on a 
complainant. It may be helpful for Mr D to review to the guidance available on our website 
around the types of awards made in instances of upset, inconvenience, trouble and distress 
caused by businesses in the complaints we see at this service.  
Taking into account the impact of the misinformation about the claim value, I believe the 
payment of £150 was reasonable in the circumstances where Phoenix Life gave an incorrect 
death benefit/sum assured which led Mr D to expect an incorrect claim value. This caused 
considerable upset for Mr D at a difficult time; it took several weeks to be rectified and it had 
a notable short-term impact on Mr D. £150 is an amount I believe appropriate for combined 
errors of this nature, and I do not believe a further £500 payment is due, as suggested.  
Finally, I note that in his response to our investigator, Mr D has suggested that the 
settlement value for his policy has not actually been paid to him by Phoenix Life, despite 
conformation of the correct claim value of £9,668.28 back in May 2020. 
On general grounds, if a business has delayed settlement of a claim, interest would be 
payable on the claim at the rate of 8% simply from the date it should have been paid up to 
the date of settlement. However, payment of the claim itself hasnt formed part of this 
complaint  so if the death benefit/surrender value payment has not been made to Mr D, he 
is free to pursue a complaint about that to Phoenix Life directly in the first instance. 
Putting things right
Phoenix Life has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So this offer must be paid without any further delay.  
My final decision
Though I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr D, I do not believe Phoenix Life Limited 
needs to do anything further in respect of calculating the policys settlement value. However, 
as above, it should pay Mr D the £150 it has already offered in account of the upset he has 
been caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman