DRN-4041722
The complaint
Miss W complains about Ikano Bank ABs (publ) (Ikano) response to a claim she made to
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Miss W has been represented by her partner at times but for ease, and because Miss W is
named on the finance agreement, Ill refer only to her in this document. I mean no disrespect
to her partner when doing so.
In 2019 Miss W had an extension built by a supplier Ill call W. She was unhappy with that
work and as she wasnt able to resolve matters with W she raised a section 75 claim with
Ikano who provided a fixed sum loan towards the cost of the work. She said that section 75
held them jointly responsible for any breach of contract and that W had breached the
contract they had with her because the work was of an unsatisfactory quality and because W
hadnt obtained the required building regulation approvals.
The complaint was escalated to this service and Ikano agreed that thered been a breach of
contract. They discussed the issue with W and offered to arrange retrospective building
approval from the council. They also said theyd waive the £1,800 Miss W still owed them for
piling the foundations and they offered to get quotes from a third party to repair the leaking
roof/gutter.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer but Miss W didnt. She explained that the
suggested redress didnt fix issues with the floor being unlevel; the plastering work that was
required; the water damage to the floor; the cost of replacing the water damaged kitchen, or
the cost to put the property back together after the building regulation inspection was
completed. She insisted that the building should be demolished and rebuilt for her.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im inclined to uphold this complaint but whilst I agree with the redress suggested by the
investigator, I can see her view on the distress and inconvenience payment was a little
unclear, and that she hadnt considered adding interest to any refunds. So, Im issuing a
provisional decision in which Ive clarified the redress and set out those limited changes,
along with the way Im inclined to ask Ikano to settle this complaint. Im allowing the parties a
little extra time to get back to me with any additional comments.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
The claim under the Consumer Credit Act (1974)
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
As its a legal requirement to get building approval for an extension of this size, and theres
no dispute that building approvals werent applied for or obtained, I think there has been a
breach of contract here.
The survey completed in December 2022 highlighted a number of issues. The engineers
conclusions were as follows:
With this being intended as an interim report with recommendations of further investigations
to provide more evidence / information for me to advise on the final scope of works I propose
the following:
1. The box gutter cannot have the final plaster board applied in its existing position. There
needs to be the inclusion of a serious insulated thermal break [minimum of 70mm I would
propose that a suitable insulation board such as Celotex. This might be positioned to align 
with the bottom of the steel beam boxing on the entrance to the Kitchen area. This needs to
follow the full line of the Box Gutter and would manifest with a PVCu modesty panel adjacent
to the opening sash on Frame 3. Given that there is a need to remove in its entirety the
plasterboard already applied to the Box Gutter this should be undertaken in the 1st instance.
A water test should be undertaken using hot water and thermal imaging should be carried
out to ensure that the gutter is indeed robust. I would recommend that once the test has
been carried out that the area is left unboarded until all other points are resolved giving time
to further test the integrity of the gutter.
2. An application should be made to LABC (Local Authority Building Control) for a
Regularisation Certificate and a site visit should be arranged with the building inspector
using the recommendations as I have previously set out.
3 Once LABC provide feedback on what evidence is required I would suggest that we
update this report and provide a scope of works to align the build to the regulations.Finally, to conclude, it is unfortunate that the Contractor agreed to the plastering of the Box
Gutter as this has no doubt compounded the issues. The materials used in the build are of
good quality, the floor levels would never have been able to run level both ways given the
existing floors leading into building are not in alignment. Adjustments are required to the
glazed frames to facilitate better alignment, all in all a slick, detailed scope of works would
have this remediation undertaken in a couple of days. Given the footings are piled and not
bearing extreme weights I would imagine that these checks are relatively simple to
undertake. Should there be a need for alterations to the Kitchen waste pipe access is
available internally given the timber floor albeit the timber flooring would need to be
replaced.
It seems the way forward is therefore for Ikano to ensure the surveyors recommendations
are carried out.
Consequential costs
Miss W has provided a number of invoices in relation to costs shes incurred. Im persuaded
those costs wouldnt have been incurred if the work had been completed to a reasonable
standard and Im therefore expecting to tell Ikano to refund those costs. They include the
costs sustained because of water damage and those incurred trying to rectify the gutter leak.
Ive seen invoices totalling £3,281.25 for replacement flooring (£721.25), fitting and levelling
of flooring (£280), re-roofing (£1,800), replacement of the gutter edge (£280), and
reskimming of the gutter (£200).
Im asking Ikano to pay interest on those refunds as Miss W has been deprived of that
money.
Distress and inconvenience
Its Ikanos handling of the claim under section 75 that is the regulated activity I am reviewing
to decide whether they have been fair and reasonable. Whilst I can see that Miss W has
been inconvenienced by the actions of W, I am not persuaded Ikanos handling of the
section 75 claim has led to any additional distress and inconvenience. They offered to
arrange retrospective building approval from the council before the complaint was referred to
this service, and its that retrospective approval that is now being suggested in order to
resolve the complaint.
I note that in addition to the building inspection Ikano also offered to waive the £1,800 due
for piling. That offer was made by the supplier in recognition of the issues Miss W had
experienced and I see no reason why it shouldnt continue to be extended. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im inclined to uphold this complaint and to tell Ikano Bank
AB (publ) to:
Carry out the recommendations identified in the survey of 22 December 2022.
Reimburse £3,281.25 to Miss W for the costs shes incurred as a consequence of the
breach of contract. Those costs are detailed above. Add 8% simple interest per year
to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Waive the piling cost of £1,800, as previously agreed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W responded to my provisional decision and explained that she had also incurred some 
redecoration costs as a consequence of the work not having been completed with 
reasonable care and skill. She provided receipts for the following:
£29.27 and £11.99 for decorating equipment.
£530 to prepare and fit skirting boards and prepare and paint walls.
I wrote to Ikano to explain I thought those costs were likely to have been reasonably incurred 
as a consequence of the problems experienced. Ikano didnt respond so Ive not been 
persuaded to change that opinion and Im asking Ikano to refund those redecoration costs.
Ikano responded to my provisional decision and asked if Miss W would consider using W to 
complete any remedial work. I asked Miss W about that, but she was very much opposed to 
the idea. She explained that with the amount of issues we have faced and the timescales 
already taken to get to this stage, we will not allow W back into our property after what they 
have put us through as a family and after already giving them numerous opportunities to fix 
the issues in the first place
I can understand Miss Ws position and I dont think it would be reasonable to appoint W to 
carry out any remedial work. 
 
Putting things right
Ive been provided with no reason to modify my provisional decision other than to include the 
redecorating costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
Carry out the recommendations identified in the survey of 22 December 2022.
Reimburse £3,281.25 to Miss W for the costs shes incurred as a consequence of the
breach of contract. Those costs are detailed above. Add 8% simple interest per year
to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Waive the piling cost of £1,800, as previously agreed.
Refund the costs Miss W has incurred to redecorate of £571.26. Add 8% simple 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman