DRN-4400359
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he received to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
The advice was given by a business for which Zurich Assurance Ltd has since become 
responsible for answering complaints. So, for ease of reading this decision, Ill just refer to 
Zurich throughout.
Mr S is being represented by a professional third party but again for ease of reading this 
decision Ill largely refer to representations as being made by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S was in touch with Zurich in early 1998. Notes from the time recorded that insurance 
and retirement income were the objectives that were to be discussed.
Zurich completed a fact-find with Mr S in February 1998 to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. The fact find said Mr S was 29, married, and had two young 
children. He was employed and was about to start a new job the following month. He and 
Mrs S owned their own home with a mortgage due to run for approximately another 18 
years. Their income was recorded as exceeding their outgoings. And Mr S was a member of 
his current employers DB pension scheme.
Zurich noted that Mr S may like to retire at age 60 and if he were retiring today would like 
an income of £25,000 per year. The fact-find said though that no advice was to be given 
regarding pensions at that time.
In September 1998, Zurich wrote to the DB pension scheme trustees for information about 
Mr S benefits. The benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £10,478.
On 20 October 1998, Zurich wrote to Mr S and said it recommended he transfer his benefits 
from the DB scheme to a personal pension with it. It said the two reasons for this 
recommendation were that Mr S was prepared to give up the guarantees provided by the 
former scheme, and it thought the rate of growth required each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme at the normal retirement age of 65 (known as the critical 
yield) was likely to be achieved. This was quoted as 9.4%. It included a copy of transfer 
value comparison where this critical yield was calculated. This also said that the DB scheme 
was estimated to provide an annual pension of around £9,500 at the normal retirement age.
Mr S signed applications on 27 October 1998 to proceed with the transfer. 
Mr S complained to Zurich in 2023 about the advice. He said he had initially approached 
Zurich for advice about other products, not to discuss his DB scheme, and he hadnt wanted 
to take any risk with his pension. But Zurich had discussed the DB scheme with him and 
then advised him to transfer. Mr S thought that advice was unsuitable as hed lost 
guaranteed pension benefits and he had no reason to transfer his benefits at that time, not 
least given how far away from retirement he was.
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it had obtained information about his deferred 
benefits and confirmed hed have to achieve a return of 9.4% per year to retirement to 
replace these with equivalent benefits. Zurich said Mr S had signed a declaration saying he 
understood this and an application to apply to transfer. So, it was satisfied it had analysed 
the transfer, set this out to Mr S and he had chosen to go ahead with the transfer.
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Zurich confirmed, when it 
provided its file, that it consented to our service investigating the complaint.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
couldnt see that Zurich had assessed Mr S attitude to risk but in any event, he didnt think 
Mr S was likely to improve on the benefits his DB scheme provided by transferring. He also 
thought this pension was likely to be valuable to Mr S as it appeared to be his only 
retirement provision at the time of the advice. And he didnt think Zurich had demonstrated 
any other reason for transferring that meant it was in Mr S best interests. So, he thought 
Zurich should compensate Mr S for any loss the transfer had caused, in line with the 
regulators methodology for addressing unsuitable DB transfer advice.
Zurich disagreed. It said Mr S had a balanced attitude to risk and had begun contributing to 
another pension after changing employer. And Zurich repeated it had undertaken the 
relevant analysis and Mr S had signed to agree to the transfer, after this analysis was shared 
with him. So, it thought it had acted correctly.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Zurich has said suitable analysis was carried out and shared with Mr S and he decided to 
proceed. And has suggested because of this it thinks the recommendation was correct and it 
has done what was required of it. But a transfer analysis being completed is not on its own 
enough to say that the advice given was suitable. And the letter to Mr S Zurich sent was 
clear that it recommended a transfer. So, it was advising him to go ahead.
The advice was given in October 1998. At that time, the business that gave the advice, now 
Zurich, was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). In 1994, the PIA 
assumed responsibility for businesses previously regulated by the Financial Intermediaries, 
Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA) and the Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). The PIA adopted the FIMBRA and LAUTRO 
rules. Based on the information Ive seen I believe the LAUTRO rules are most likely to have 
applied to the advising business here, at the time of the advice  not least because it was 
recommending a pension it provided.The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor. But none of this went as far as 
meaning that the adviser could just sell the least unsuitable contract from within the 
providers range.
So, while Zurich was required to disclose information about risks and consequences of a 
transfer, its responsibilities to ensure suitable advice was provided went beyond just 
producing analysis for Mr S to consider. And, as Ill explain, I dont think a transfer was 
suitable for Mr S or that Zurich could reasonably have genuinely believed it to be in his best 
interests.
The objectives in the fact find that was carried out by Zurich several months before the 
advice said one of the things that Mr S wanted to discuss was Providing or increasing 
retirement income. Zurich said the critical yield was 9.4% to match the benefits Mr S 
couldve received from his DB scheme at age 65. And it thought it was likely that this could 
be achieved. But this was the rate of return required simply to purchase equivalent benefits 
to those being given up, not to improve on them. And there would be little point in Mr S 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme and taking on the 
associated risks only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And 
by transferring Mr S would have to pay annual fees and charges for the personal pension, 
which would reduce any gains the funds made. And those are not charges he would have 
had to pay if he didnt transfer.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the time of Zurichs letter of recommendation was 7.5% per year for 34 
years to retirement  the case if Mr S retired at age 65. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and the 
lower projection rate 6%.
I can see that the fact find included a question about investment attitude, with a scale and a 
box to tick. The scale ranged from cautious to balanced to speculative. This was completed. 
And Zurich has said Mr Ss attitude to risk was balanced. Im not sure simply ticking this box 
was a sufficiently robust way of truly determining his attitude to risk. And, although he had 
started a new job and was contributing to a new pension scheme, his DB scheme made up 
the majority of his retirement provisions at the time. So, I think these were valuable. I also 
note that the option selected on the form actually seems to have been between cautious and balanced. Which for an inexperienced investor like Mr S, seems reasonable.
In any event though, even with a balanced attitude to risk, given the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates I think Mr S was unlikely to be able to 
consistently achieve growth equivalent to or in excess of the critical yield. And so, I think he 
was likely to receive pension benefits of a lower value than those hed have been entitled to 
under the DB scheme by transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk. So, I think 
Zurichs statement that this return was likely to be achieved was misleading. And if 
increasing his retirement income was genuinely one of Mr S objectives, the transfer was 
unlikely to achieve this.
The other reason that Zurich recommended a transfer was because Mr S was prepared to 
give up his guaranteed benefits. But that doesnt mean it was in Mr S best interests to do so, 
even if he would build up further retirement provisions before retiring. And again, Zurich was 
required to provide best advice and not advise him to transfer unless it genuinely believed 
doing so was in his best interests. 
Mr S was only 29 at the time of the advice, so, any thoughts he mightve had about what 
retirement would look like were unlikely to be anything more than aspirational. And I dont 
think transferring to a personal pension for the potential flexibility this mightve offered in 
comparison to his DB scheme was in his interests at that time. 
Mr Ss DB scheme provided a spouses pension, which couldve been useful to his family in 
the event of his death. And I note the other purpose of Mr S taking advice was to put in place 
protection and insurances, to provide for his family in the event of his death. So, while I note 
the analysis Zurich provided suggested that death benefits might be improved by a transfer, 
Mr S seems to have already taken steps to address providing a legacy in what was, in my 
view, a far more appropriate way. 
So overall, I cant see any reason that I think could reasonably have led Zurich to consider 
that a transfer was genuinely in Mr S best interests.
Zurich has said Mr S applied to transfer, after it shared its analysis with him. But, 
notwithstanding that I think its statement, that the growth required to replicate the benefits 
being given up was achievable, was misleading, from what I can see Mr S was an 
inexperienced investor. Ultimately, Zurich advised Mr S to transfer. And I think he relied on 
that advice. If the professional adviser, whose expertise about his finances in general Mr S 
had sought out, hadnt recommended a transfer and explained that improving on his 
guaranteed benefits was unlikely I think hed have accepted that advice. And he would not 
have transferred away from his DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Zurich should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zurich to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Zurich must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions 
in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Zurich should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts Zurichs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Zurich may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd 
to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
Zurich Assurance Ltd pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Zurich Assurance Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman