DRN-1656853
 
The complaint
Ms G says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about 15 instalment loans Sunny provided to Ms G between May 2016 and 
November 2017. Ms G borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £600 to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. Sometimes Ms G borrowed again whilst a previous loan was still 
running so that she had to make more than one repayment a month. There were no 
significant breaks in the lending. Loans 12 to 15 are still outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Gs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and offered redress from loan six 
onwards and to write off the balance still outstanding. Ms G was unhappy with this and so 
the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Ms G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
Sunny asked Ms G for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Ms G said her monthly income was £950. She said her monthly expenditure ranged 
between £175 and £925. I cant see that Sunnys credit checks found anything adverse that 
should have prompted further checks. 
I think these checks went far enough for loans one to three. Given the loan amounts, what 
was apparent about Ms Gs circumstances at the time and her history with Sunny, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Ms G provided or 
the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate 
to start verifying what Ms G was saying. So I cant say that Sunny was wrong to have 
provided loans one to three.
I think Sunny should have made better checks for loan four. This was Ms Gs fourth loan in 
six months and the amount she was indebted had steadily increased. I think Sunny should 
then have verified what Ms G had told it about her circumstances to ensure that she could 
sustainably repay her loan. Ive looked at Ms Gs credit report and bank statements from the 
time to get this information, but Sunny could easily have asked Ms G for it. 
I think there was nothing in these that showed that Ms G was experiencing financial 
difficulties. And I think that if Sunny had made better checks, it would have found that Ms G 
could afford her loan. So I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided loan four. 
But, as our adjudicator explained, when Ms G asked for loan five, loans three and four were 
still outstanding. The combined repayments were a significant proportion of Ms Gs monthly 
income. So I think it was very likely that Ms G would be unable to meet these and her 
existing commitments without borrowing again. And so I think Sunny should have realised 
that Ms G would be unable to sustainably repay loan five, or any subsequent loans.  
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms G with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Gs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because the overall pattern of Ms Gs borrowing showed that she was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans:
This was Ms Gs sixth loan in seven months and the amount of her combined 
monthly repayments had steadily increased over this time. 
From loan six onwards Ms G was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one or while it was still running. So Sunny ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Ms G was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms Gs indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Ms G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 15 was 
taken out 18 months after Ms Gs first. And the amount of her combined repayments 
had significantly increased. Ms G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Ms G lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Gs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 15 and I think Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms G, I think Sunny should:
buy back any sold on debts or liaise with the new owner to achieve the results below;
refund all interest and charges Ms G paid on loans 5 to 15; this refund should be 
offset against the principal still owed for loans 12 to 15 and the remainder paid to Ms 
G; or, if a balance remains owing, then an affordable repayment plan should be 
agreed;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Ms Gs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 15 should be removed from Ms 
Gs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Gs 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Ms G 
compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman