DRN-3763126
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to him 
the money that he paid for a barbeque. 
What happened
Mr H used his Tesco Bank credit card in April 2021 to pay £153.83 for a barbecue. He didnt 
receive the barbecue so he contacted Tesco Bank. It asked him to provide more information 
about the purchase. There was a delay in him providing the requested information and, by 
the time that he did so, the time-limit in which Tesco Bank could make a chargeback claim 
had expired so it considered his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It said that Mr H had been unable to provide an invoice showing what goods were ordered 
from the supplier so it was unable to establish a breach of contract. Mr H wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that there 
was enough evidence for Tesco Bank to have proceeded with a section 75 claim and he 
recommended that it should refund the cost of the barbecue to Mr H, with interest from when 
it originally declined the claim. He said that Tesco Bank had acknowledged its delay in 
dealing with the claim and had credited £50 to Mr Hs account which he thought was 
appropriate compensation.
Tesco Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that the text messages that have been relied on dont tell it anything about the 
purchase, the contract or how it has been breached. It says that, given the lack of proof of 
what was purchased and what the contract entailed, its unfair to determine that a breach of 
contract has occurred and it's not fair to hold it liable for a breach of contract that hasnt been 
substantiated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Tesco Bank initially considered a chargeback claim for the payment that Mr H had 
made to the supplier and it asked him to provide more information about the 
purchase;
there was a delay in him providing the requested information and, by the time that he 
did so, the time-limit in which Tesco Bank could make a chargeback claim had 
expired and I dont consider that Tesco Bank acted incorrectly in not making a 
chargeback claim in these circumstances;
Tesco Bank then considered his claim under section 75 - in certain circumstances, 
section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and that Tesco 
Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not 
determining the outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 75 as only a court would be 
able to do that;
Mr H used his Tesco Bank credit card in April 2021 to make a payment of £153.83 to 
a supplier and he says it was for a barbecue  hes provided a text message from the 
supplier which says:  thanks for your purchase of £153.83 from [name of supplier]! 
We'll notify you when it ships. View order (#1136) and a link to a web-site was 
provided  but the link no longer works;
Mr H has also provided a text message that he received from the supplier five days 
later which said: Your order from [name of supplier] has been shipped and a 
tracking number was provided;
Mr H sent an e-mail to the supplier in May 2021 in which he asked for advice on the 
delivery as he said that the order hadnt been received and, when he checked with 
the delivery company, it said that the shipping number doesnt relate to a shipping 
item;
Tesco Bank said that Mr H had been unable to provide an invoice showing what 
goods were ordered from the supplier so it was unable to establish a breach of 
contract  but Mr H says that he didnt receive the barbecue that hed ordered and I 
consider that that would be a breach of contract by the supplier;
I consider that Mr H had provided enough information for Tesco Bank to be able to 
investigate a section 75 claim and it has provided no evidence to show that Mr H 
received the barbecue or that the supplier fulfilled its contract with him;
I dont consider that Tesco Banks response to Mr Hs section 75 claim was fair and 
reasonable and I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for 
it to rework his account as described below; and
Tesco Bank has acknowledged that there was a delay in its response to Mr Hs claim 
and it credited £50 to his account  I consider that to have been a fair and 
reasonable response to the customer service issues and Im not persuaded that a 
higher award of compensation is justified.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco Bank to rework Mr Hs credit card 
account as if the payment of £153.83 had been refunded to his account on the date that it 
issued its final response letter to him and to make the payments described below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order Tesco Personal Finance plc, 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:
1. Rework Mr Hs credit card account as if the payment of £153.83 had been refunded 
to his account on the date that it issued its final response letter to him, and - if that 
puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit  it should also refund 
the credit balance to Mr H.
2. If Mr H has repaid the £153.83 (or any part of it) to Tesco Bank but doesnt have a 
credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Tesco Bank must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman