DRN-4071573
The complaint
Mr S complains about the problems he is having in making payments with his debit card. He 
is also unhappy with the difficulty he says hes experienced with The Co-operative Bank Plc 
(Co-op) when raising these problems with it.
What happened
Mr S says on a number of occasions including 30 August and 12 September 2022, he tried 
to use his debit card to make purchases and the transactions failed.
Mr S contacted Co-op in January 2023 by secure message and complained that he was 
trying to make a purchase over the phone but was unable to do this with his debit card as 
the merchant had told him the debit card had been declined. So Mr S used his credit card to 
make the transaction which was successful. 
The Co-op explained it had no record for a transaction attempt on Mr Ss debit card with the 
merchant at the time in question and so was unable to provide a reason for the transaction 
being declined. It explained that Mr S was able to successfully use his debit card with the 
merchant in the previous month and that Mr Ss card was approved for in-person 
transactions where the chip is presented but that extra layers of security are needed when 
using his card online.
Mr S queried why the card failed on the phone and Co-op explained that the only payments 
it could see that were declined were online, but this may be because the merchant Mr S 
attempted to pay over the phone has processed the payment wrong. Mr S then requested a 
call back which the Co-op explained it didnt have the facility to do but provided Mr S with a 
number he could use to call its customer service line on. 
The Co-op didnt think it had made an error and had acted in line with its processes and 
didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants to know 
why the transactions that required the extra security measures failed, as he believes this to 
be a bank system problem.
The Co-op has further explained that the transactions that failed in September and August 
above were subject to extra security measures that it had introduced which required 
password verification in conjunction with a one time password (OTP) sent via text. The Co-
op says Mr S has been able to successfully transact with these added security measures 
which indicates that on the occasions the transaction failed it was due to Mr S incorrectly 
entering information.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss concerns and reached the conclusion that Mr S 
had had issues with making payments with his card but there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that it was due to an error on the Co-ops part. 
They also explained to Mr S that Co-op was strengthening its security measures around how 
customers transact when using their cards remotely to reduce fraud and that Co-ops 
approach to this is in-line with regulatory guidelines. Whilst these changes may be different 
to what Mr S is used to  it is not our role to tell a bank what processes to use or change 
them. 
Furthermore, they didnt think Co-op had treated Mr S unfairly when using a secure message 
to communicate with Mr S rather than over the phone.
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I hope that Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Our investigator has already explained that we are unable to look at all of Mr Ss 
complaint points as he didnt raise them within six months of when Co-op issued its final 
response letter in February 2022. So Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr Ss complaint is that on 
occasion he was unable to use his debit card to transact on his account and that he wasnt 
provided with an explanation as to why.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how transactions are processed. We offer 
an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr S has experienced and see if the Co-op has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr S back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case it is not disputed that there have been occasions when Mr S wasnt able to use 
his debit card to transact, in particular over the phone in January 2023. What is in dispute is 
whether this is due to an error on Mr Ss part or the Co-ops. And unfortunately, from the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can provide Mr S with an answer that will satisfy him.  
The Co-op understandably has no record of the transaction in question as it never reached it 
 so it is not possible for the Co-op to give a reason why the transaction failed. It is possible 
Mr S entered his details incorrectly or that the merchant processed the transaction 
incorrectly. Again, from the information we have it is not possible to tell. And as Mr S has 
been able to successfully use his debit card in the past - and my understanding on more 
occasions than when its failed  I think its more likely the issue is with something the 
merchant has done or Mr S himself.
In any case, things dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake warrants 
compensation. Here, were I to find the transaction failed due to something Co-op did wrong I 
wouldnt make an award, as I dont consider the detriment Mr S alleges sufficient to justify one. Indeed, Mr S was able to mitigate the problem by using his credit card and he has told 
us that he hasnt been affected financially or otherwise. 
Finally, I understand that Mr S is unhappy at having to contact Co-op using secure message 
and that he wishes for Co-op to communicate over the phone. But Co-op has told us Mr S 
has successfully used secure message in the past and Im not persuaded as to why Mr S 
has to have issues hes experienced addressed over the phone. Mr S was given a number 
he could use to call the Co-ops customer services but chose not to. And as Co-op is under 
no obligation to communicate with its customers over the phone, I dont think Co-op has 
treated Mr S unfairly. 
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman