DRN-4253482
The complaint
Mr L complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender didnt complete sufficient checks
to see whether he could afford to pay back the loans.
What happened
Mr L was advanced five loans and a summary of his borrowing can be found in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 23/11/2017 26/12/2017 3 £152.80
gap in lending
2 £750.00 02/07/2018 21/11/2018 6 £275.00
3 £1,000.00 21/11/2018 15/12/2018 12 £198.69
gap in lending
4 £500.00 05/07/2021 24/06/2022 12 £99.34
5 £600.00 24/06/2022 outstanding 12 £125.60
Following Mr Ls complaint, Mr Lender wrote to him with a final response letter (FRL) and it
explained that it had carried out proportionate checks for each loan which demonstrated
Mr L could afford his repayments and so it didnt uphold the complaint. However, as a
gesture of goodwill Mr Lender offered:
 we would be willing to reduce your outstanding balance to the original capital
amount borrowed on your fifth loan of £279.64. This new balance can be repaid via a
repayment plan to support you in your current financial circumstances.
Upon acceptance of our offer, it would mean you would repay no interest towards
your fifth loan.
Mr L didnt accept this offer and instead referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr Lender sent its file into this matter and at this time, it explained that Mr L still owed it
£166.64 of outstanding capital and it said that once the loan has been repaid it is willing to
remove the loan from Mr Ls credit file.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and in her assessment, she didnt uphold
Mr Ls complaint about loans 1 and 2. However, she did uphold Mr Ls complaint about loans
3  5.
For loans 3  5 the adjudicator thought Mr Lender needed to have carried out further checks
before granting the loans. Had it done so, by loan 3, it wouldve likely discovered that Mr L
was spending a significant portion of income each month gambling. And further checks when
loans 4 and 5 were granted wouldve shown Mr Lender that shortly before loan 4 was
granted he had entered into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) and therefore loans 4
and 5 werent sustainable for him either.
Mr L appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the outcome, and Ive summarised its response below:
Loan 3 was repaid much quicker than contracted and this was Mr Ls second loan in 
the second chain of borrowing.
There wasnt anything either in the checks or the way Mr L had repaid previous loans 
to indicate further checks were needed.
Mr L told Mr Lender he was taking loan 3 for a holiday.
Due to the gap in lending Mr L was treated as a new customer when he returned for 
loan 4.
Proportionate checks were carried out for all loans that showed Mr L had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments. The checks also didnt highlight that 
Mr L was subject to an IVA.
Mr Lender can only make its lending decision based on the information that it 
received.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I then issued a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I wasnt going to be upholding Mr Ls 
complaint, but Mr Lender ought to carry out the offer it had made. Both parties were asked to 
provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 
20 July 2023.
Mr Lender said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr L asked for a further update, after the provisional decision was issued but didnt provide 
any further evidence or submissions.  
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint about loans 1 and 2 and Mr Lender and
Mr L appear to have agreed with those conclusions. As such, there is no longer any
outstanding dispute and so I say no more about them. Instead, this decision will focus on
Mr Lenders decision to provide loans 3  5.
Loan 3
For this loan, Mr L told Mr Lender his monthly income was £1,300  which was the same
amount he had declared for loan 2. Mr L also declared monthly outgoings of £798 across a
number of different categories such as rent, food and other regular outgoings to name a few.
Mr Lender believed, based on the information Mr L had provided that he had around £502
per month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £198.60. Therefore, it
wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable.
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
At this point in time, it was also reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information it
was given by the credit reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there
was anything contained within it that wouldve either prompted Mr Lender to have carried out
further checks or possibly have declined Mr Ls application.
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr L wasnt insolvent either through an
IVA, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three years preceding the loan.
However, it did know that Mr L had one active payday loan. This may have been a concern
but given there were no other repayment problems and the loan looked affordable, I think it
was reasonable for Mr Lender to have granted the loan based on the credit checks results.
Overall, there were no signs, from the credit check results, which indicated Mr L was in
financial difficulties or was having problems managing his existing credit commitments.
I appreciate the adjudicator thought that further checks ought to have been carried out whenthis loan was advanced, and I can understand why she may have felt that given this loan
was larger and was to be repaid over a longer period of time compared to loan 2.
But I have also had to weight that up against the fact this was only the second loan in the
chain of lending, and up to this point Mr L had only been indebted to Mr Lender for around
five months. There also hadnt been any problems repaying loan 2 and the information it
received from both Mr L and the credit reference agency didnt indicate any signs of financial
difficulties or give Mr Lender any concerns that ought to have led it to carry out further
checks.
I think for a second loan in the chain and considering what else Mr Lender knew, that the
checks were proportionate and showed it that Mr L could afford the lending. Im therefore not
upholding Mr Ls complaint about this loan.
Loans 4
There was a significant break of around 31 months between Mr L repaying loan 3 and
returning for loan 4. This break is in my view, more than enough for Mr Lender to have
treated Mr L as if he was a new customer.
So, although this was Mr Ls fourth loan in total for the purposes of thinking about what
checks it ought to have carried out, Mr Lender could treat Mr Ls application afresh and as if
it was his first loan. Which will impact the type and level of checks I think it ought to have
carried out.
For this loan, Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks as it had done for the previous
loans. Mr L declared a monthly income of £1,400. Mr L also declared monthly outgoings of
£799 across the same categories as he was previously asked about and which I commented
on about loan 3.
Mr Lender believed, based on the information Mr L provided, he had around £601 per month
in disposable income to afford the largest loan repayment of around £100. Therefore, it
wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable.
The adjudicator thought further checks were needed for this loan because of the term. I do
accept that the loan was for 12 months but in my view that isnt solely enough to have
triggered further checks. Instead, given the significant break in borrowing it was reasonable
for Mr Lender to have relied on the information it was given by Mr L (as detailed above) and
the information it received following the credit checks, which I comment on below.
Mr Lender also carried out the same sort of credit search and it has provided the summary of
those results. Ive had to think carefully about the credit check results because I know that
Mr L had recently agreed to an IVA  and if Mr Lender knew about it or ought reasonably to
have known about the IVA that could be a reason to either not lend to Mr L or to have
prompted further checks.
However, based on the summary of the credit check results Mr Lender received, and what it
has told us is that when the loan was approved, Mr L wasnt subject to any outstanding
CCJs or IVAs which had been recorded within the previous 3 years.
However, I do know, because Ive seen the paperwork which Mr L has provided that in
April 2021 Mr L did indeed enter an IVA. So, this does contradict the information
Mr Lender has been given by the credit reference agency and I cant explain why this is the
case. One explanation could be a reporting delay from when the IVA was entered into and
when the information was reported with the credit reference agencies.
So, the question for me to consider, whether it was reasonable for Mr Lender to reply on the
results of the credit check which said that Mr L wasnt subject to an IVA? Bearing in mind
that as part of the application for the loan Mr L also hadnt disclosed that he was subject to
the IVA.And Ive decided in this case, that Mr Lender could rely on the credit check results that it was
provided it. Ive considered that the credit check results didnt indicate any financial
difficulties and because this was the first loan after a significant break there wasnt any
relevant recent lending history to indicate repayment problems.
And as Ive concluded that further checks didnt need to have been carried, because that
wouldnt have been proportionate it therefore follows that Mr Lender wouldnt have seen any
information that suggested Mr L was subject to an IVA.
In my view, for this loan the checks carried out by Mr Lender showed it that Mr L had
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else in the
information it obtained which suggested Mr L was having either financial difficulties or that
the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him.
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 4.
Loan 5
Mr L declared similar income and expenditure figures for this loan as he had done so for
loan 4. The result of which showed Mr Lender that Mr L was likely to be able to afford the
loan repayments.
This was the second loan in this lending chain, and it was a slightly larger capital loan to be
repaid over the same term. The loan was also granted on the same day that Mr Ls fourth
loan was repaid.
The adjudicator upheld this loan for the same reason as loan 4  further checks ought to
have been carried out and these wouldve shown that Mr L was under the terms of an IVA.
However, the credit checks Mr Lender carried out again didnt highlight that Mr L was under
the terms of an IVA. This does seem unusual, considering this loan was taken more than a
year after the IVA had been entered into and therefore there was more than sufficient time
for the credit file to have been updated to reflect this.
However, as before, there were no other indicators from either the information Mr L provided
or the credit search results that may have suggested to Mr Lender that he was either in
financial difficulties, the loan was unsustainable, or he was subject to any insolvency
proceeds.
And I also dont think it had yet reached the stage where Mr Lender needed to have carried
out further checks, such as verifying the information Mr L had provided because I still think it
was just about reasonable to have relied on the credit check result and the information
provided by Mr L. I say this, considering this was his second loan and there hadnt been any
obvious repayment problems while he repaid loan 4.
I am therefore intending to not uphold this loan either.
However, in saying all of the above, in the FRL Mr Lender made a goodwill offer (and
clarified it in its submissions to the Financial Ombudsman) to put things right for Mr L about
loan 5 only, which is to only collect the capital amount that was advanced and then once
repaid remove the loan from the credit file. Given the circumstances of the complaint, I
consider that offer to be fair and reasonable and so I am intending to recommend that
Mr Lender honours this offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party provided any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think Mr Lender did 
anything wrong when it approved lending for Mr L. 
However, Mr Lender made an offer to put things right for the final loan only. This offer is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, and if Mr Lender hasnt already done so, then it needs 
to do what it previously agreed.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ls complaint. 
But PDL Finance Limited should, do what it has already agreed to do in order to put things 
right for Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman