DRN-2021919
The complaint
Mr S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined his claim for 
accidental damage because it processed his claim incorrectly under his buildings policy.
What happened
Mr S had buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead. His contents insurance included 
accidental damage but his buildings insurance didnt.
He made a claim for damage to his kitchen and conservatory floors caused when he moved 
a piece of gym equipment. Fairmead accepted his claim for the vinyl flooring in the kitchen 
under the accidental damage cover of his contents insurance. But it declined his claim for 
the laminate flooring in the conservatory because it classed that as a permanent fixture 
under the buildings insurance, which didnt have accidental damage cover.
Mr S complained to Fairmead, but it said that the laminate was fixed to the floor and wall and 
the structure of the building would be damaged if it were replaced. Mr S disagreed. He said 
the floor wasnt fixed in position on the floor and the beading held it in place against the wall.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Fairmeads definition of contents and 
buildings didnt provide any clarity and, in the absence of that, it wasnt fair to consider and 
decline the claim under the buildings policy.
Fairmead didnt agree. It thought that the beading used to finish off the laminate flooring 
wouldve been stuck to the walls, so it would cause damage to the building if removed. Its 
flooring specialist also reported that the laminate flooring was glued down so removing it 
could cause damage. Therefore, Fairmead thought it was right to consider the damage 
under the buildings policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
The only issue in dispute is whether the accidental damage to Mr Ss laminate flooring 
should be considered under the buildings or contents insurance. If the flooring falls under the 
buildings policy, Mr S didnt have accidental damage so it wouldnt be covered. He did have 
accidental damage cover under his contents policy, so Mr S would be able to claim under 
that. So, rather than repeat the broader circumstances here, Ill address that key point.
Fairmead says its industry practice to consider laminate flooring under a buildings policy. 
Replacing the flooring would cause damage to the buildings structure and therefore should 
be classed under the heading of fixtures and fittings. I understand that laminate flooring has 
been the subject of debate, but my focus is on this individual case, taking into consideration 
industry practice and what is fair.
The policy defines buildings as:
BUILDINGS
Your home, and its permanent fixtures and fittings including:
i) tennis courts, terraces, patios, footpaths, drives, garden walls, fences, gates and hedges;
ii) permanently installed:
a) swimming pools;
b) hot tubs;
iii) permanently connected:
a) drains, pipes and cables for which you are legally responsible;
b) service tanks and central heating oil tanks;
c) wind turbines, solar panels and ground source heating pumps; 
all sited within the boundaries of the land belonging to your home.
Mr Ss buildings policy schedule defines his cover as:
Buildings
Protection for the structure of your home and its permanent fixtures and fittings, including 
any garages or domestic outbuildings within the boundaries of your land. This will cover you 
against events such as fire, storm, flood, theft, escape of water.
Although Mr S doesnt have accidental damage cover for buildings, Ive looked at what 
wouldve been covered if he had to see whether it offers any further clarification. I dont think 
it does.
Buildings Extended Accidental Damage
Protection for accidents in your home such as banging a nail through a pipe, putting your 
foot through the ceiling, accidental breakage of windows or sanitaryware.
Laminate flooring isnt mentioned at all under the buildings policy, so it doesnt provide 
anything conclusive.
The policy defines contents as:
CONTENTS
Household goods and personal belongings owned by you or for which you are legally 
responsible including:
i) money; and
ii) tenants fixtures and fittings;
in your home but excluding:
Contents in any communal part of the home.
Oil.
Pedal cycles.
Vehicles.
Caravans, trailers, aircraft, drones, hovercraft, boats
Livestock or pets.
Landlords fixtures and fittings.
Property held or used for business purposes.
Any part of the buildings.
Property insured under any other policy.The contents policy schedule defines Mr Ss cover as:
Contents
Protection for your household goods and personal belongings in your home, garage and any 
domestic outbuildings within the boundaries of your land. This will cover you against events 
such as fire, storm, flood, theft, escape of water.
And the accidental damage cover, which Mr S does have for contents, covers:
Contents Extended Accidental Damage
Protection for accidents in your home such as spilling red wine on your carpet, damage to 
your televisions or stereos or accidental breakage of mirrors and fixed glass in furniture.
Again, laminate flooring is not mentioned at all. I can see that the contents excludes any 
part of the buildings but, as the buildings definition doesnt mention flooring, I dont think that 
brings any greater clarity.
So in the absence of any reference to laminate flooring, Ive thought about whether its 
reasonable to consider the flooring under the contents or buildings policy.
The contents policy is the only one which mentions flooring of any kind  carpet. Based on 
that alone, I dont think it would be unreasonable to assume it extends to all types of flooring, 
or at least those fitted in a similar way. Carpet is laid over underlay and secured with gripper 
rods. Mr Ss laminate flooring was laid over underlay and secured with beading. I think thats 
similar.
Fairmead says the beading wouldve been attached in some way and would, therefore, have 
damaged the structure of the building. But it wasnt able to clarify whether the beading was 
glued or nailed. Mr S, who has since replaced his flooring himself, says the beading was 
loose laid over the laminate. In the absence of any other evidence to confirm this, I have no 
reason to doubt what he says. So, I think the laminate flooring was laid in a similar way to 
carpet.
Mr Ss claim was also for the vinyl flooring in his kitchen, which Fairmead covered under the 
contents policy. Vinyl flooring is sometimes glued down in places, usually around the seams, 
though not always. It is also, usually, sealed to the skirting board or wall. But in general, the 
flooring is laid without glue and sealed at the edges. Removing it would cause minimal 
damage so I can see why its covered under contents insurance. But I think thats similar to 
the laminate flooring held in place by loose laid, nailed or glued beading  removing it would 
cause minimal damage.
Given that laminate flooring has been the subject of debate across the industry, I think it 
wouldve been helpful if Fairmead had provided clarification in the policy documents. The 
policy is silent on this matter. So, where a policy doesnt make clear what is covered or not 
covered, I think its fair to interpret it favouring the party which isnt responsible for drafting 
the policy  in this case, Mr S.
In summary, I dont think it was fair for Fairmead to consider Mr Ss accidental damage 
under his buildings policy, leading it to reject his claim. In the absence of any mention of 
laminate flooring throughout the policy documents, I think its fair for Fairmead to pay his 
claim under the accidental damage part of the contents insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited must:pay the claim for the laminate flooring under the accidental damage section of the 
contents policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman