DRN-2666871
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the level of security checks undertaken by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc
and which enabled a third-party scammer to take a loan in Miss Js name.
What happened
Miss J was the victim of a scam. She was convinced by the scammer to disclose her
personal information, including her bank details. The scammer then contacted Hitachi and
applied for a loan using the personal information that Miss J had given them. The loan
application was approved, and the money was credited to Miss Js bank account. The
scammer then convinced Miss J to transfer the money to the scammers bank account.
When Miss J realised the nature of the scam, she alerted her bank who attempted to recover
the money. The bank also froze Miss Js bank account, which meant that Miss J had to
borrow money from family members until her bank account became accessible again.
Miss J complained to Hitachi because she was unhappy that they had allowed the scammer
to take out a loan using her personal information, and because she had been unable to use
her bank account for a period of time.
Hitachi looked at Miss Js complaint. They said that the loan application had been made
using Miss Js personal details and information, which meant that security and identity
checks had been passed. Because of this, Hitachi felt that they had acted in good faith when
processing the loan application, and that they had no reason at that time to believe that the
application wasnt being made by Miss J.
So, Hitachi didnt uphold Miss Js complaint, but because it took Hitachi longer than they
would have liked to respond to Miss Js complaint, they made an offer of £50 compensation
to Miss J to apologise for the lateness of their complaint response.
Hitachi also noted that Miss Js bank had been unable to recover the total amount of the
loan, but that Hitachi had acknowledged that the loan had been taken fraudulently they
werent pursuing Miss J for the remaining balance and would remove any adverse
information relating to this loan from Miss Js credit file.
Miss J wasnt satisfied with this response and felt that Hitachi should do more to compensate
her for the trouble that shes had as a result of this loan being approved. So, she referred her
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Hitachi should bear more
responsibility for what had happened to Miss J, and so they recommended that Hitachi pay
an additional £200 to Miss J, above and beyond the £50 they had already agreed to pay.
Hitachi disagreed with the recommendation of our investigator, and so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2021 in which I stated the following:
Its clear that Miss J feels strongly about this issue, and I realise that this experience 
must have been distressing for her. But Im not convinced its fair or reasonable to 
hold Hitachi responsible for what has happened here.
I say this because Hitachi could only act on the basis of the information that they had
available at the time that the loan was being applied for. And, because the scammer 
had been able to gather Miss Js personal details and information from Miss J, this 
meant that the scammer was able to pass the security and identity checks that were 
a part of the loan application process. Also, because the loan applied for was to be 
paid to Miss Js personal bank account, rather than to an alternative account which 
might have aroused suspicions, its difficult to see why Hitachi should reasonably 
have had cause to question whether it wasnt in fact Miss J that was applying for the 
loan.
Miss J has stated that she feels Hitachis checks should have been more diligent. But
unfortunately, because Miss J gave her personal details and information to the 
scammer, its possible that more thorough checks would not have made a difference 
here. In addition, it must be noted that the provision of credit is a regulated activity 
and that the level of checks that a company must undertake is stipulated within those 
regulations. This means that Hitachi were not obliged to undertake a more thorough 
level of checks, and this service would not expect Hitachi to do so - unless there 
were something in the initial checks which aroused suspicion, which in this instance 
was not the case for the reasons already explained.
In circumstances such as this it would be expected that a business treats its 
customer with a degree of sympathy, and I think that Hitachi have done that here. 
Theyve acknowledged that Miss J was the victim of the scam and so havent 
pursued her for the balance of the loan that Miss Js bank was unable to recover. 
Furthermore, Hitachi have also removed any adverse information relating to this loan 
from Miss Js credit file.
I understand that Miss J may have been inconvenienced by her bank putting a hold 
on her account when she informed them of the potential fraud, but I cant fairly say 
that its the fault of Hitachi that this happened.
So, I dont think that its reasonable to ask Hitachi to make a payment of £200 to Miss 
J. I say this because I dont think Hitachi acted inappropriately or unfairly in approving 
the loan application and I accept that they were acting in good faith when they did so 
on the basis of the information that they had available to them at that time. I also 
acknowledge that the £50 compensation payment that Hitachi have offered Miss J 
was not an admission of error, but rather a token of apology because of the length of 
time it had taken Hitachi to respond to Miss Js complaint.
I appreciate this may not be the outcome that Miss J was hoping for, but it follows 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Hitachi to take any further action, 
beyond that which they have already offered.
Both Miss J and Hitachi were invited to accept or disagree with my provisional decision by 8 
March 2021. This time period has now passed. Hitachi accepted my provisional decision, 
while Miss J did not respond.It follows that I see no reason not to confirm the outcome outlined in my provisional decision, 
and so I wont be upholding this complaint on that basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman