DRN-2860840
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she has been given two different reference numbers for a hire 
purchase agreement she took out with RCI Financial Services Limited.   
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs M took out a hire purchase agreement for a new car. A few days after she 
signed the agreement RCI wrote to her to confirm her details, the monthly payments and that 
those payments would be collected by direct debit. Mrs M noticed however that the 
reference number on the letter and the reference number on the agreement itself were 
different. She asked RCI to correct what she considered to be an error. 
RCI explained that, due to a change in the course of the agreement being processed, 
documents had to be re-issued. When that happened, the agreement was given a new 
reference number. It reassured Mrs M that the terms of the agreement had not changed and 
that her payments would be processed correctly. Mrs M did not accept that explanation and 
asked that the documents be re-issued. 
RCI said that would not be possible and Mrs M referred the case to this service. Our 
investigator did not recommend that RCI do anything further. Mrs M did not accept the 
investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can make an award in Mrs Ms favour if I consider that RCI has made an error which has 
caused her actual financial loss or material distress or inconvenience. I do not believe that is 
the case here. 
I accept RCIs explanation about what happened in this case and why the agreement 
reference has changed. I also accept that the change makes no material difference to Mrs M 
 the terms of the agreement have not changed and direct debit payments are being taken 
and correctly applied to Mrs Ms account with RCI. There is therefore no reason to require 
RCI to change the documentation (even if that were practical) or otherwise to compensate 
Mrs M.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require RCI Financial Services Limited to 
do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
