DRN-4303169
The complaint
Ms H complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited (CB) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022 Ms H was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with CB. At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had covered around 
119,000 miles.
Ms H noticed that there were marks on the floor where shed parked. She also noticed white 
smoke coming from the exhaust. She took the car to a garage in May 2022. The garage 
found an oil leak, as well as some other issues.
Ms H reported the oil leak to the supplying dealer, who said it would carry out repairs.
When Ms H got the car back following the repairs. She was told that the oil sump had been 
resealed and that she needed to drive the car more for the white smoke to stop. Ms H took 
the car back to her local garage because the oil light had illuminated.
Ms Hs local garage told her that the oil sump had been replaced with an after market one 
which didnt have an oil sensor, which is why the oil light was illuminated. It told Ms H that 
the car was fit to drive.
In October 2022 Ms H experienced further issues with the car. She took the car to her local 
garage, who diagnosed a broken DPF. Ms H found a mechanic who could weld the DPF but 
he told her that the whole exhaust needed replacing. Ms H didnt proceed with the repairs 
because the cost exceeded the value of the car.
Ms H complained to CB. In its final response, it said it hadnt been able to get in touch with 
Ms H since she logged her complaint. Ms H has told this service that she tried to speak to 
CB multiple times and didnt receive a response from them.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said the oil leak had been confirmed in 
May 2022 and that because a new sump had been fitted to the car in February 2022, around 
one month prior to the point of supply, and because Ms H had only driven around 1000 in 
the car when the oil leak was diagnosed, he didnt think the leak shouldve been present that 
early on. The investigator said he was satisfied that the oil leak was present or developing at 
the point of supply and said that CB should refund Ms H the costs of the diagnostic report 
and pay compensation (the costs of repairs having been covered under Ms Hs warranty). 
The investigator said that in relation to the fault which occurred in October 2022 (exhaust 
broken at DPF) he didnt think the fault had been present or developing at the point of supply 
because Ms H had managed to drive for 6 months and had covered 3000 miles before the 
fault occurred. The investigator said that in relation to the issue with the turbo and DPF in 
February 2023, there wasnt enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Ms H didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. 
The car supplied to Ms H was around 9 years old and had covered around 119,000 miles. 
So its reasonable to expect that the car would already have suffered some wear and tear 
and that it would require repairs and maintenance sooner than a brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first 6 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can 
reject the car. 
Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of the point of supply, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Ms H experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car had a fault. I say this because Ive seen a 
diagnostic report confirming that the car had an oil leak and a broken DPF. Ive also seen job 
cards showing that repairs have been carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive reviewed the vehicle health check dated 10 May 2022. This states that the car has an oil 
leak. I can see that the dealership caried out repairs at no cost to Ms H. Given that the oil 
sump had been replaced around one month prior to the point of supply, and given that Ms H 
had only driven the car for around 1000 miles in the two months between the point of supply 
and the oil leak being diagnosed, I think its likely that the oil leak was present or developing 
at the point of supply. This means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
I can see that the supplying dealer repaired the oil leak, which is in line with its obligations 
under the relevant legislation. Ms H had paid for the cost of the vehicle health check which 
diagnosed the oil leak. I think its fair to ask CB to refund the cost of this.
Im aware that Ms H is unhappy that the oil sump which was fitted to the car around a month 
prior to the point of supply wasnt a genuine part. Shes said that the supplying dealer told 
her that the part was genuine but that her local garage told her that it was an after market 
part. The diagnostic report dated July 2022 states that the oil sump in the engine isnt the 
original sump  but Im not surprised at this because we know the sump was replaced prior 
to the point of supply. 
Ms H says that the supplying dealer told her at the point of supply that the sump had been replaced with a genuine part. I havent seen any evidence of the discussions which took 
place between Ms H and the dealership prior to the point of supply so I cant be certain of 
exactly what was said. But even if the supplying dealer did say that the oil sump had been 
replaced with a genuine part, and even if the sump isnt genuine (which isnt clear from the 
evidence) I dont think this was the main reason for Ms Hs decision to enter into the 
agreement. So Im not persuaded that theres been a misrepresentation. 
Irrespective of whether the sump was a genuine part or an aftermarket part, theres no 
evidence to suggest that the supplying dealers repair to the sump in May 2022 wasnt 
successful. I appreciate that Ms H took the car to her local garage with the oil light 
illuminated following the repair. However, the garage didnt diagnose a fault and stated that 
the car was fit to drive.
Ms H experienced an issue with the exhaust being broken at the DPF in October 2022. At 
the time this fault was diagnosed, Ms H had been driving the car for around 9 months and 
had covered around 3000 miles.
Ive already explained that where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of the point of 
supply, its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at the point 
of supply. Ms H hasnt provided any evidence that there was a fault with the DPF or the 
exhaust at the point of supply. If there had been a fault with the DPF at the point of supply, I 
dont think it would have been possible for Ms H to drive the car for the time and mileage 
elapsed.
Ms H has told this service that in February 2023 she discovered that the DPF was blocked 
and that the car had a possible engine fault because there was high oil consumption. Ms H 
has provided an undated document to support this. Ive reviewed the document, but it isnt 
enough evidence for me to say that there was a fault with the DPF at the point of supply. In 
relation to the high oil consumption, theres no evidence that this is linked to the previous 
repair to the sump. The previous repair involved resealing the sump because of a leak and 
was not related to an issue with high oil consumption.  
I appreciate that Ms H has experienced some issues with the car and I understand how 
frustrating this can be. However, based on what Ive seen, and having regard to the relevant 
legislation, Im unable to say that CB are responsible for any of the issues beyond the initial 
oil leak, which has already been repaired. 
Putting things right
To put things right CB should refund the cost of the vehicle health check.
Its clear that the issues with the oil leak caused some distress and inconvenience to Ms H. 
She had to take the car to be checked and then take it back to the supplying dealer for 
repairs. I think its fair to ask CB to pay some compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
Refund the cost of the vehicle health check £89.21
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenienceUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman