DRN-1840145
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about National House-Building Councils re-consideration of a claim 
made under their buildings warranty policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a National House-Building Council (NHBC) buildings warranty which 
covers a flat they own and rent out.
In 2017, they discovered an ingress of water via the balcony in their flat, which had caused 
damage to the room below. They made a claim to NHBC.
NHBC carried out an assessment and scoped work to repair the waterproof membrane in 
the balcony. However, the cost of the work they scoped out came to less than the minimum 
claim value (MCV) set out in the policy. This was £1,000 at the start of the policy  indexed 
from then on  and amounted to just over £1,500 at the time of the claim. 
Mr M and Mrs M got a quote for the repairs from a local company, which came to more than 
£3,000. So, they questioned NHBCs costings. 
There were some discussions at that point, but Mr and Mrs M effectively withdrew the claim 
after making alternative arrangements to carry out repairs  albeit not the repairs NHBC had 
considered necessary when they assessed the damage.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs M discovered a further ingress of water via the balcony and asked 
NHBC to re-consider their position on the earlier claim.
NHBC looked again at the claim, but maintained theyd made the right decision at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this outcome and made a complaint to NHBC.
In response NHBC again maintained their position on the claim, so Mr and Mrs M brought 
their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think NHBC had done 
anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, the issues in this case are quite simple. Theres no dispute that the policy terms 
say NHBC will repair damage to the property caused by a defect in the building work only if 
the repairs cost more than the MCV. 
The MCV is indexed  and again, theres no dispute that it a stood at just over £1500 at the 
time of the claim.
Although Mr M has argued that the policy isnt clear that the cost of the repairs is the cost to 
NHBC of carrying out the repairs, I cant agree with him on this point. I think its absolutely 
clear in the policy that NHBC will calculate the cost based on what it will cost them to have 
the repairs carried out, rather than the cost (or potential cost) to the customer if they 
commissioned the work themselves.
NHBC say their assessment showed what work was necessary - and they scoped this out 
correctly and costed it according to widely accepted trade guides on the cost of work.
There was some discussion about whether scaffolding might be required. It seems Mr and 
Mrs M had initially agreed to store materials inside the flat  which would have made a 
scaffold unnecessary  but later withdrew this offer. 
Nonetheless, when NHBC added in the cost of scaffolding, their estimate for the cost to 
them of getting the repairs carried out was just under £1,400  still below the MCV of over 
£1,500.
Mr and Mrs M thought this was unrealistic given the quote they obtained in 2017  at over 
£3,000. They believe NHBC have missed some necessary work from their proposed scope. 
And they think the true cost  to NHBC  would and should be more than the MCV at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs M have obtained two further quotes for the repairs more recently (in 2019). 
These came to more than £3,500 and almost £5,000 respectively. Mr and Mrs M believe this 
shows that the original NHBC costings were considerably underestimated.
Mr M has suggested that some elements of the work set out in the estimates provided to him 
 for example, removal and reinstatement of the wood cladding to the balcony to enable the 
balcony pavers to be lifted, and re-fixing of the flashings  were not included in NHBCs 
scope. He believes these elements are necessary and would push the cost of the claim 
beyond the MCV.
Ive looked carefully at the quotes provided by the three contractors engaged by Mr and 
Mrs M and at NHBCs original scope of works.
They go into varying degrees of detail about the work to be carried out  and I can see that 
some of the detail provided by the contractors to Mr and Mrs M was only set out after further 
enquiries were made as to exactly what work was intended.
So, I dont think NHBC leaving out the intimate detail in their scope of works necessarily 
invalidates it  or their costings. I can see that NHBCs scope includes reinstatement of the 
balcony pavers. And Im satisfied this would include any necessary work to put the balcony  
including flashings, fittings etc.  back in the state it was in before works commenced. 
Its important to say that insurers can often get work carried out at less cost than a private 
individual. They have a degree of purchasing power given the possibility of repeat work for 
the contractor, so thats not surprising. And its not unusual that a policy will specify that 
costs will be calculated according to what the insurer would have to pay to get work carried 
out.
I think that accounts for some of the discrepancy between NHBCs costings and the quotes 
obtained by Mr and Mrs M. Possibly more significantly though, I can see that the method of repair being suggested by 
the three contractors is different to that proposed by NHBC. This may also explain the fairly 
large differences between the three contractors quotes for the work.
Ill explain what I mean in more detail.
NHBC clearly envisage lifting the balcony pavers and repairing the existing membrane, 
followed by reinstatement. They say all of this is to be done in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations.
The quote obtained by Mr and Mrs M in 2017 envisages  amongst other things - laying a 
new EDPM rubber bond system. So, a completely new waterproof layer, possibly of a 
different type to that already in place.
There are two quotes obtained by Mr and Mrs M in 2019. One suggests suppling and fixing a 
fleece liquid waterproofing (of a particular brand). This is a different system to the one 
previously in place.
The other estimate suggests cutting the existing pavers down and installing 50 mm cable 
stores to allow for drainage. Again, the system proposed is very different to the one 
previously in place  and the scope includes cutting the existing pavers down. Its 
unsurprising this would cost more than the straightforward repair costed by NHBC.
I think Mr and Mrs M would have a case if it were clear that the NHBC scope proposed 
works that werent adequate or sufficient to deal with the water ingress problem. But I dont 
think theres any suggestion of that. Im satisfied that its more likely the various contractors 
are proposing works which amount to upgrading of the waterproofing.
This of course isnt a bad thing in itself - and Mr and Mrs M may choose to go for a top of the 
range system of waterproofing. But its important to remember that NHBC are offering an 
insurance policy which indemnifies the customer against any loss or damage. In other 
words, it offers to repair or replace what the customer already had  not to provide better or 
higher quality replacement or repair. 
To varying degrees  and the variance explains the large differences between the 
contractors quotes themselves  I believe all three quotes obtained by Mr and Mrs M are for 
work which exceeds that which is necessary to reinstate the previously existing method of 
waterproofing. And Im satisfied this explains much of the difference between the estimates 
provided and the cost calculated by NHBC.
So, I dont think NHBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably in their re-assessment of Mr and 
Mrs Ms 2017 claim  and/or in their decision not to accept the claim now.
I should also point out  for the sake of completeness  that when Mr and Mrs M withdrew 
their claim in 2017, they carried out repairs that they considered effective to prevent further 
water ingress and which seem to have in fact been effective for around two years.
Given that the repairs carried out were not the repairs NHBC was suggesting were 
necessary to address the issue (as set out in NHBCs cope of works), Im satisfied that any 
subsequent damage to Mr and Mrs Ms property isnt NHBCs responsibility and isnt 
covered under the policy  which requires policyholders to take any reasonable steps to 
prevent or mitigate damage to their property.     My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman