DRN-4200613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (trading as Hastings Direct) 
was initially unable to renew their home insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs L are both named policyholders, so any claim or complaint is brought by 
them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the complaint has 
been provided by Mr L, Ill refer mainly to Mr L from here onward.
What happened
Mr L bought a home insurance policy via Hastings Direct in October 2020 and renewed it in 
2021. Hastings Direct wrote to Mr L in September 2022. It told him his current insurer 
wouldnt renew his policy in October 2022. After further communication, Hastings told Mr L it 
couldnt find a renewal quote among its panel of insurers. It suggested he use price 
comparison websites to search for a new insurer.
Mr L did this and found cover via Hastings Direct with his existing insurer. However, the price 
of his new policy was significantly higher than his old policy. Mr L was unhappy about this 
and complained to Hastings Direct.
Hastings Direct upheld part of Mr Ls complaint. It said the original renewal was declined 
because it wrongly recorded a claim twice on its systems. However, it told him it had no 
control over pricing, and this was a matter for his insurer. It apologised for its error and 
offered Mr L £100. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt 
believe £100 adequately compensates him for the aggravation and stress the matter caused 
him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She agreed that 
Hastings Direct had made an error when it recorded Mr Ls open claim twice but explained 
that Hastings Directs role was limited to arranging Mr Ls policy, and it wasnt responsible for 
setting the new premium. While she accepted that Mr L had to search online for new cover, 
she thought this had caused Mr and Mrs L minor inconvenience. She thought Hastings 
Directs £100 offer was fair.
Mr L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mr L has a separate complaint with this service against his policy underwriter about his 
subsidence claim so Im not going to cover that here. My decision relates only to Hastings 
actions as the insurance intermediary.
Mr L has levelled several accusations against Hastings Direct. In summary, he says:
Hastings Direct repeatedly lied to him.
It added incorrect claims to his policy.
It amended his no claims discount due to these incorrect claims.
It threatened that he wouldnt be able to get insurance elsewhere.
It charged him excessively for his new policy.
I understand why Mr L is disappointed and frustrated that his new policy cost much more 
than his old one. However, as Hastings Direct and our investigator have explained, pricing 
decisions are for the underwriter (the insurer), not the intermediary (Hastings Direct). 
Similarly, the insurer is responsible for any changes to a customers no claims discount.
Its clear that Mr L did make a claim on his policy for damage to his home. That claim is the 
subject of his other complaint with us. Hastings Directs error  which it acknowledged  was 
to duplicate that claim on its records. That affected its attempts to renew Mr Ls policy with its 
panel of insurers. As Hastings Direct explained, Mr L was able to find cover online by not 
including details of that claim in his searches. Ive found no evidence that its agents lied to 
him or deliberately misled him.
I suspect much of Mr Ls frustration with Hastings Direct is linked to his insurers handling of 
his claim. But, as Ive said, thats not relevant to my decision on his complaint about 
Hastings Directs actions at renewal in September/October 2022. 
Mr L was able to find new cover quickly and before his existing policy expired, so at no time 
was he left uninsured. Given the circumstances, I think Hastings Directs apology and £100 
offer is fair. Im not going to ask it to do anything more. I leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide 
whether they want to accept this offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint because I think Hastings Directs offer is 
fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman