DRN-2906737
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor service in
connection with a motor insurance policy. 
  
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a premium-brand car first registered in 2018. Mr H 
leased the car. No doubt he had to agree to give it back in good condition at the end of
the lease. From mid-September 2019, Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy
with Admiral. Where I refer to Admiral, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold 
Admiral responsible for their actions.
Unfortunately, in July 2020, the car suffered accidental damage including damage to the
nearside rear wheel. So Mr H made a claim on the policy and Admiral instructed a repairer.
The repairer refurbished the damaged wheel.
In August 2020, after he got the car back, Mr H complained to Admiral that the refurbished
wheel didnt match the other three. By a final response dated mid-September 2020, Admiral
turned down the complaint.
Mr H (with help from his partner) brought his complaint to us within a few days. He asked for 
Admiral to put things right  including remedial work and compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience.
In early January 2021, Admiral offered to pay Mr H 50% towards the costs of refurbishing the
other 3 wheels.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Admirals offer was fair. The investigator didnt think that the finance company would charge 
Mr H for the mismatch of colours when he handed the car back at the end of the lease.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Admiral on 15 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
Admirals offer to pay 50% of the cost of refurbishing the other three wheels was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Compared to the final response, that offer was more favourable to Mr H. So  in 
endorsing that offer  I would uphold the complaint in part.
From the file note, Admiral mustve expected each of the three wheels to cost in the 
region of £120.00  so a total of £360.00, half of which is £180.00.
Mr H hadnt obtained and sent us any quote for refurbishing the other three wheels.
Mr H hadnt said whether he had handed the car back to the lease company.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr H £180.00 in lieu of refurbishing his other three wheels.
Admiral disagrees with the provisional decision in part. It says, in summary, that:
It asks for evidence that Mr H has either paid for the refurbishment of the other 3 
wheels or has returned the car to the finance company and been charged for this 
issue, or if the car remains with him an estimate for the refurbishment of the 3 
wheels.
Without such evidence of loss, it cannot agree to cover £180.00 or the 50% cost of 
the refurbishment on the 3 wheels.
Its email to us on 5 January 2021 suggested that it would cover a percentage of the 
cost if the customer had the 3 wheels refurbished.
Mr H accepts the provisional decision. He and his partner say, in summary, that:
He still has the car and is due to hand it back to the lease company in May 2022. 
The wheels have not been refurbished.
First Admiral confirmed they saw a "colour" difference, then claimed it was a shade 
difference, then said it would eventually match the other wheels and finally admitted it 
doesn't match the other wheels, but they won't sort it because that would be 
"betterment".  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen photographs of the refurbished wheel and another wheel. Ive also seen an email
in which the complaint-handler said that she could see the difference. So I can see why Mr H
wasnt happy.
However, its not unknown for surface finishes to change with time and exposure to the
elements. And such wear and tear isnt usually covered by insurance.
Admirals responsibility was to repair the damage that Mr Hs car had suffered in the
accident in July 2020.
After the investigators opinion, Admiral gave a batch number for the paint. We passed that
number on to Mr H. Having said he would check it, he hasnt commented further. So I find it
likely that Admiral ordered and used the correct paint.
I accept that the refurbished wheel looks different to the other wheels. But Admiral wasnt
obliged to refurbish the wheels that hadnt been damaged in the accident in July 2020.Ive seen the following note in Admirals file:
Even if a slight colour match was independently confirmed (which it is not on the file)
all we would do in these cases is issue CIL for the referb as carried out in the repair
which in this case was £120.00.
I think that - rather than a slight colour match  that was a reference to a colour mis-match.
Subject to confirmation of that, Admiral had considered paying cash in lieu of the cost of the
refurbishment - £120.00.
Admirals email to us dated 5 January 2021 was followed by its email of 15 January making 
its offer to pay 50% of the cost of refurbishing the other three wheels. I consider that this 
offer is fair in the circumstances. Compared to the final response, that offer was more 
favourable to Mr H. So  in endorsing that offer  I will uphold the complaint in part.
The offer was on the basis that Mr H would get a reasonable quote for refurbishing the other
three wheels  and Admiral would pay him half the quoted amount.
Mr H has recently said he still has the car and is due to hand it back to the lease company 
next year. He hasnt obtained any quote for refurbishing the other three wheels. But, from 
the file note, Admiral mustve expected each of the three wheels to cost in the region of 
£120.00  so a total of £360.00, half of which is £180.00. 
 Putting things right
So Ive thought about whats the most fair and reasonable way of implementing Admirals
offer. I keep in mind that Mr H has had to drive the car for some months with slightly 
mismatched wheels on the nearside. And I keep in mind that he has been anxious that the
finance company would impose a charge for that at the end of the lease.
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct that Admiral should pay Mr H £180.00 in lieu of 
refurbishing his other three wheels. As theres no evidence that hes been out of pocket, I 
wont add interest at our usual rate.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H £180.00 in lieu of refurbishing his 
other three wheels.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman