DRN-1344713
The complaint
Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs D bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I say this because Mrs D applied for her card and was sold the PPI through the post  and 
Barclays have sent a copy of her application. In the section titled Payment Protection Plan 
Mrs D has ticked a box to confirm she wanted to take the PPI, a separate box to decline the 
PPI has been left blank. So, I think its more likely Mrs D was aware she had a choice and 
chose to take out PPI.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this, given how long ago 
it was.
As Mrs D applied for the policy by post I think its unlikely she had any contact with a 
Barclays representative, so I dont think Barclays gave her a personal recommendation to 
buy the policy. As Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D it didnt have to make sure 
the policy was right for her. However, it did have to provide her with clear, fair and not 
misleading information so that she could decide if she wanted to take out the PPI.
 Its possible that Barclays didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mrs D would have 
changed her mind about buying the policy if she been given better or clearer information. 
I cant say she would have done. I say this because:
Mrs D was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. For example, she didnt have any medical conditions 
that wouldnt be covered. So, Mrs D would have been able to make a claim if shed have 
needed to.
Mrs D has told us she cant recall how much sick pay shed receive from her employer if she 
couldnt work. But the PPI Barclays sold her could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months. So, I think shed have found the policy useful if she couldnt work or lost her job.Mrs D has told us she could have relied on friends or family to help if she couldnt work. But 
this kind of help isnt guaranteed. And her friends and family may not have been in a position 
to give help when it was most needed. So, I still think the policy would have been useful to 
Mrs D if something went wrong and I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost 
wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint, and I make no award 
against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman