DRN-1744444
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) unfairly 
avoided his policy.
What happened
In November 2016, Mr T took out an income protection policy with Shepherds Friendly 
through a broker. The policy was designed to provide a monthly benefit illness or injury 
caused Mr T to become incapacitated and unable to work. And, the day after the policy was 
incepted, Mr T made a claim on it. 
Shepherds Friendly accepted Mr Ts claim, and he began to receive a monthly benefit from 
the policy. But in 2019 Shepherds Friendly said that evidence showed Mr Ts claimed 
incapacity didn't meet the policys requirement. Shepherds Friendly said Mr T had given 
false information when making his original claim too. So, they stopped paying his claim. 
Separate to the above, Shepherds Friendly carried out a further review and said that Mr T 
had also provided inaccurate information when hed originally applied for his policy. 
Shepherds Friendly said that they wouldn't have offered Mr T a policy if accurate information 
had been provided. So, they avoided Mr Ts policy and retained his premiums; because 
Shepherds Friendly had paid more to Mr T in monthly benefits than Mr T had paid in 
premiums.  
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr T complained. But Shepherds Friendly maintained 
their decision so Mr T referred his concerns to this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened but, based on the available evidence, he too 
thought that inaccurate information had been given in Mr Ts application; namely in relation 
to Mr Ts chest pains, ECG's, weight and mental health. Our investigator said that 
Shepherds Friendly had shown they wouldn't have offered Mr T a policy if accurate 
information had been provided at application. And, in line with the Consumer Insurance 
Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 (CIDRA) and our established approach to 
misrepresentation, he didn't think Shepherds Friendly had acted unreasonably in avoiding 
Mr Ts policy and retaining his premiums. So, our investigator didn't recommend that Mr Ts 
complaint be upheld.
Mr T disagreed and, in summary, said hed been truthful throughout the application process. 
He said her hadn't seen what the broker had submitted to Shepherds Friendly. And he said 
hed had a medical call with Shepherds Friendly during the application and had told them 
about his health too. Mr T also said that Shepherds Friendly should have requested a copy 
of his medical records before the policy was taken out if they wanted any more information 
about his health. And he also said he found it strange that his broker had provided 
information that just fell within Shepherds Friendlys criteria for cover. However, our investigator explained there was no evidence of Mr T having spoken to 
Shepherds Friendly during the application process and said this service couldn't hold 
Shepherds Friendly liable for any mistakes that Mr Ts broker might have made. So, as no 
agreement was reached, Mr T asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman and the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mr Ts complaint and will explain why. 
I can see that Mr T feels very strongly about what has happened. But my findings will only 
focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. That means I 
wont address every point or argument that has been made. And I trust that Mr T wont take 
that as a matter of discourtesy. 
When someone applies for an insurance policy theyll usually be asked a variety of questions 
by their potential insurer. That insurer will use the answers provided to determine the level of 
risk that individual might present to them  for example, how likely that individual might be to 
make a claim on a policy  and will decide whether they are prepared to provide cover for 
that individual. 
When Mr T applied for his policy, he had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 
(CIDRA). Shepherds Friendly asked several questions about Mr Ts health at that time. And I 
think those questions were clear and specific. 
One of the questions asked was whether during the last five years Mr T had seen a health 
professional for chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat, paralysis, numbness, 
persistent tingling or pins and needles, tremor or facial pain other than dental pain, memory 
loss, dizziness or balance problems. 
Mr Ts answer was given as no. But Mr Ts medical records show that he had visited his GP 
and an accident and emergency unit with chest pains during the last five years. 
Similarly, when Shepherds Friendly asked another question  if Mr T had been referred to 
or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, scan or ECG during the last five 
years  the answer given was also no. But Mr Ts medical records show that he had 
undergone two ECG's during the last five years. 
Further Mr Ts weight was recorded as lighter in the application form than what was shown in 
his medical records only a short period afterward. And depending on which figures are used, 
different results in relation to Mr Ts body mass index (BMI) can be calculated because of 
that. 
In addition to the above, Shepherds Friendly asked whether Mr T had suffered from anxiety, 
depression or any mental illness thats required treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue 
syndrome over the last five years. The answer given was no, but the application form also 
referred to Mr T taking medication for high blood pressure which had been caused from 
anxiety in 2007. And which it said Mr T had been taking for about two months just to be 
safe. But Mr Ts medical records show that he had visited his GP on at least five occasions 
over the previous two years in relation anxiety and depression. And that hed regularly been 
prescribed medication too. So for the reasons give above, I dont think an accurate representation of Mr Ts health was 
given when he applied for his income protection policy. And therefore, I dont think 
Shepherds Friendly acted unreasonably in concluding that Mr Ts position had been 
misrepresented.
I know that Mr T has said he didn't see what his broker submitted to Shepherds Friendly, 
and that he wonders whether incorrect information was submitted on his behalf. But the 
matter I am deciding here is in relation to Shepherds Friendly. So if Mr T has concerns about 
his broker, he should refer his concerns to them in the first instance. 
Mr T has also said that he was honest throughout the application process, and that he had 
spoken to Shepherds Friendly himself where he disclosed information about his health. But 
Shepherds Friendly dont have any record of a call with Mr T during the application process. 
And the third party that Shepherds Friendly used to complete their medical screening calls 
dont have any record of a call either. Further, Shepherds Friendly have said that there 
would not have been time to arrange such a call with Mr T, given the time between his 
application and the policys inception. So aside from Mr Ts testimony, there is no available 
evidence to demonstrate that he spoke to Shepherds Friendly as described. And I cant fairly 
conclude that such a call took place because of that. 
The findings I have made above are not to say that Mr T deliberately misrepresented his 
position. But given the misrepresentations that were made, I am satisfied that Shepherds 
Friendly weren't given the opportunity to accurately assess the level of risk that Mr T might 
have presented to them, when he applied for his income protection policy.  
Shepherds Friendly have since shown this service that they would not have offered a Mr T a 
policy if accurate information was provided at application  because they would have 
considered him a risk that they were not willing to insure.  And so I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Shepherds Friendly to avoid Mr T's policy in order to put him back into the 
position that he would have been in, had it not been for those misrepresentations. That 
position being that Mr T would not have had an income protection policy with Shepherds 
Friendly and, therefore, would not have been able to receive benefit from it.  
Normally, when a policy is avoided in such circumstances, an insurer would be expected to 
return the premiums that a consumer had paid towards the policy. But in this case I 
understand Mr T has received more from the policy in monthly benefits, as a result of his 
claim, than he has paid in premiums. So on this occasion, I dont think that Shepherds 
Friendly have acted unreasonably in avoiding Mr Ts policy and retaining his premiums, and I 
wont be interfering with their decision to do so because of that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman