DRN-2912317
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused her distress and financial loss when it 
failed to remove her late fathers details from the buy to let mortgage. Ms M would like 
Barclays in addition to the compensation it already offered to compensate her for the 
financial loss of being unable to let out the property.
What happened
Ms M and her late father Mr J were joint owners of a property and had a buy to let mortgage 
with Barclays. Ms Ms father Mr J passed away in October 2019. Ms M told Barclays of this 
on 9 December 2019 and sent them the death certificate which they received on 16 January 
2020. 
Ms M says she couldnt rent out the property with the letting agency as the mortgage wasnt 
in her sole name. When she contacted Barclays, she was told a number of times that to 
regularise it that she needed a Grant of Probate. But as this was a joint tenancy rather than 
a tenancy in common, it wasnt necessary. Barclays acknowledged the error in March and 
offered as compensation to cover three months of the contractual monthly payments of the 
mortgage and £300 for Mrs Ms distress and inconvenience  in total £1,214.25. Ms M says 
that this is insufficient. She has to cover the costs including letting fees and council tax and 
this underestimates the resulting stress that it caused her. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld as there was no evidence that Barclays 
delay prevented the agent letting the property out sooner. Ms M disagreed and asked for a 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint follows from the sad death of Ms Ms father and I express my sympathies to 
her. Barclays accepts that it delayed the transfer of the mortgage from the joint names of Ms 
M and her late father to that of Ms M alone which would have caused Ms M distress. In 
recompense it offered £300 for the distress and to pay three months of mortgage payments 
which total £914.25. Ms M believes thats insufficient because Barclays refusal to transfer 
the mortgage into her sole name meant that she couldnt let out the property for a period.
It seems to me that there are two issues here. Firstly, why would this have affected the 
existing letting of the property and, secondly, on the assumption that the existing letting did 
come to an end why would it affect a re-letting of the property.
Ive been trying to establish why the death of Mr Ys father and Barclays failure to remove Mr 
Y from the mortgage would have caused Ms M to lose rent if the property was already let 
out. I have evidence that Ms M was the recipient of rental income in 2019. I dont have the 
legal documentation e.g. a lease or rental agreement supporting that. I have a redacted copy 
of a booking form between a letting agency and a council dated 2008. Neither Ms M nor Mr J 
are mentioned on that form. I can see that there was rental income through a letting agency 
in 2019.  To clarify the situation, I asked for a copy of the rental agreement that was in 
existence in 2019 and why the letting came to an end but Ive had no response to that 
question. Ive no idea why the existing letting came to an end and no evidence that it was 
caused by Barclays failure to transfer the mortgage into Ms Ms sole name. 
In respect to the second question, I do have a proposed contract dated June 2020 between 
Ms M and a new letting agency for the letting of the property. It seems that the case is being 
made that Ms M couldnt enter a new rental agreement before the date that Barclays 
removed Mr Js name from the mortgage. There is an email from the letting agency of the 14 
May 2021 saying that Mr Js name needed to be removed from the Land Registry and 
mortgage documents before it could proceed with any letting. 
Whilst I can see that it would require Barclays agreement to change the mortgage 
documents into Ms Ms sole name, the changing of the name of the owner on the title could 
be done by Ms M. Ms M became the sole owner on the death of her father because as a 
joint tenancy the legal title passed to her by means of survivorship The Land Registry has a 
process for amending the title in that type of situation whereby the applicant applies to 
remove from the register the name of the deceased which appears to involve a form and the 
official copy of the death certificate. That does not seem to require the involvement of 
Barclays. By operation of law the property has passed from Ms M and Mr J to Ms M alone 
and doesnt require the agreement of the lender. So, if the fact that the property was still in 
joint ownership prevented the property from being let out, that doesnt appear to be down to 
the lender.
I also dont consider that the fact that the mortgage was in joint names would have 
prevented any new lease agreement. The lease will be in the name of the owner as I can 
see in the proposed contract of June 2020 and on the death of Mr J, Ms M was the owner. In 
my view the mortgage still being in joint names would not have prevented a further lease of 
the property.
So, whilst I accept that Barclays made an error in how it understood this property was held in 
joint ownership and caused a delay in the transfer of the mortgage, I dont accept that this 
should have caused Ms M financial loss. Ive received no information as how the tenancy 
that existed whilst Ms M and Mr J were joint tenants ended and have no evidence to support 
the view that Barclays failure to transfer the mortgage caused that tenancy to come to an 
end. I also dont accept, for the reasons set out above that it was Barclays failure to transfer 
the mortgage that meant that Ms M was unable to let out the property after the death of her 
father. I can understand that if Ms M suffered financial loss that this would have caused her 
aggravated distress but thats not the fault of Barclays. Barclays has taken responsibility for 
the delay in the transfer of the mortgage and I believe that its offer of £300 to be fair 
including any distress felt by Ms M in the receipt of correspondence addressed to Mr J 
following his death. I also accept that its offer to meet the mortgage payments for the period 
of three months to be fair. As Barclays already made that offer, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman