DRN-2816977
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that TSB Bank Plc declined an application for a loan.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr A applied to TSB for a loan. He was subsequently advised that his 
application couldnt be considered because of the level, of gambling transactions being 
made on his account at the time.
Mr A was unhappy that his application was declined because he considers himself to have a 
strong financial status and wouldve been able to repay the loan. He complained to TSB.
In response, TSB said that as a responsible lender it wouldnt lend if it thought that it was 
irresponsible. It said there were many factors taken into account when considering a 
personal loan application, including the type of income received, monthly expenditure and 
credit scoring. It said it followed its lending guidelines to ensure that it acted responsibly. 
TSB said that upon reviewing Mr As transactions, it could see that a number of payments 
had been made to gambling companies, which wouldve been a factor in its decision not to 
lend.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He feels that TSB 
made its decision on moral rather than financial grounds and is concerned that his credit 
status might have been affected by the decision.
Our investigator didnt think TSB had acted unfairly by declining the loan. He said TSB had 
declined the application at the pre-application stage because it was concerned about the 
level of gambling transactions on the account. The investigator said this was in line with 
TSBs lending policy, pre-referral checklist and responsible lending standards. The 
investigator also looked at the way TSB had handled the complaint and said it had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr A didnt agree. He questioned the evidence on which TSB had made its decision and 
reiterated his strong financial position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive approached this complaint by looking at whether TSB acted fairly in declining the loan 
application, having regard to its lending policies. I havent looked at whether the loan was 
affordable. I think its important to clarify this, because although Mr A has provided lots of 
information about his financial status, the loan application wasnt declined on affordability 
grounds.
Id also like to clarify the Financial Ombudsmans role in relation to complaints about lending 
decisions. Whilst Im able to look at whether a lender has acted fairly, and in accordance 
with its lending policies, Im not able to tell a lender what its policy should be, or how it 
should set its lending criteria.
I can see that TSB declined Mr As application on the grounds that it had concerns about the 
number of gambling transactions on his account.
Ive looked at Mr As bank statements for the two months leading up to the loan application. 
These show regular gambling transactions.
Ive also looked at TSBs lending policy, pre -referral checklist and responsible lending 
standards. TSB has explained that it provides training tom its staff to help them identify and 
support customers where large number of gambling transactions are seen, as it takes the 
view that these can be an indication of a gambling problem. TSB has further explained that 
when it sees large numbers of gambling transactions, it considers that as a responsible 
lender it would be inappropriate to provide credit.
TSB says that it made a commercial decision to require kits staff to check a loan application 
account for gambling activity, and  if such activity is identified  to decline credit on the 
basis that it might be used to make speculative payments. To demonstrate this, I can see 
from the pre referral checklist that TSB staff are required to review a customers account for 
the last 3 months before referring a loan application. The checklist require staff to check 
whether there are gambling transactions on the account.
There is an obligation on TSB to act as a responsible lender, so Id expect it to have lending 
policies in place, and to require checks to be carried out before deciding whether to extend 
credit. There are no specific requirements for these checks, nor are the checks limited in 
scope, so as well as checking affordability, credit history and sources of income, its likely 
that a lender might check other things such as  for instance  gambling transactions. If a 
lender doesnt carry out proper checks, it runs the risk that it might be found to have lent 
irresponsibly.
Drawing all of this together, and taking into account the lending policies, I dont think TSB 
has acted unfairly in declining the loan application. I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to 
have a policy of declining credit where large numbers of gambling transactions are identified. 
Im satisfied that TSB acted reasonably and in line with its lending policy.
I understand that Mr A feels that TSB has taken a moral decision but having looked at 
everything I dont think this is the case. I appreciate that Mr A feels that he has demonstrated 
that he is in a strong financial position and that the loan repayments were affordable. Ive 
taken account of everything Mr A has said but this hasnt changed my view that TSB acted 
reasonably in applying its lending policy.
Ive also considered whether TSB handled Mr As complaint fairly. Mr A has said that TSB 
refused to give him reasons for refusing the loan. Ive looked at TSBs final response and Im 
satisfied that it explained the factors it took into account and the reasons for its decision. Ive 
also looked at further correspondence between Mr A and TSB. Whist I can see that TSBs 
correspondence isnt as detailed as Mr As, Im satisfied that TSB provided a reasonable 
response to Mr As correspondence and handled the complaint fairly. 
Finally, I understand that Mr A is worried that the decision to decline the loan application has 
affected his credit file. TSB has confirmed that because it declined the application at the pre 
application stage, Mr As credit file wont have been affected.
Taking everything into consideration, Im of the view that TSB acted fairly and reasonably 
and in line with its lending policies when it made the decision to decline it.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman