DRN-2443522
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited should have monitored his account more closely 
to prevent him from entering a cycle of debt.
What happened
Mr M initially complained about irresponsible lending by Vanquis when it provided him with a 
credit card account and later when it increased his credit limit. He added that he has been in 
a cycle of debt for 10 years, and he thinks Vanquis could have done more in the monitoring 
of his account to help him prevent the cycle of debt. He said hes made a significant number 
of cash withdrawals and was incurring interest and late payment fees.
Unhappy with the response to his complaint from Vanquis, he referred the matter to us.  
One of our investigators looked into the two complaints points Mr M had raised. He thought 
the complaint about the lending decision had been referred to this service too late. But he 
thought we could look at the second part of his complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree that hed bought the complaint too late. But ultimately an ombudsman 
decided that that part of Mr Ms complaint was out of time. But she agreed his complaint 
about whether Vanquis should have done more to help Mr M from July 2013 onwards was 
something this service could consider.
Our investigator looked into this. But he didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Vanquis 
hadnt looked to increase Mr Ms credit limit since 2013 so it had no reason to monitor his 
account in the way Mr M expected. He noted that Mr M hadnt notified Vanquis of his 
financial problems until 2017 after which he felt Vanquis had done enough to fulfil its 
obligation to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically. 
 
Mr M didnt accept this outcome. He didnt think Vanquis had done enough to meet the 
regulations in place relating to monitoring of credit accounts. He added that he felt there 
were clear indicators on his account - given the number of gambling and cash advance 
transactions on his account, that there was problem. The investigator didnt think this altered 
the outcome hed reached. 
As Mr M still disagreed, the complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
I note Mr M has mentioned that Vanquis mis-sold him a Repayment Option Plan (ROP) with 
his credit card account when he referred his complaint to us. The investigator explained this 
was a separate issue which needed to be addressed directly with Vanquis in the first 
instance. Mr M did not dispute this point. But for clarity, Mr Ms concerns about the ROP do 
not form part of my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator for broadly 
similar reasons. I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
I'm sorry to hear of Mr M's financial difficulties. It isnt in dispute Vanquis became aware of 
these matters when Mr M got in contact with it in 2017. And at this point it had a 
responsibility to treat Mr Ms situation positively and sympathetically. But this doesnt mean 
Vanquis was automatically required to write off the debt or suspend/refund interest and 
charges. 
I would expect a lender in these circumstances to agree suitable arrangement about 
repayment of the debt to help the account holder get back on track. And having reviewed 
Vanquis records, I can see it agreed several short-term payment arrangements following a 
discussion with Mr M about his circumstances and some fees were waived. Overall, I think 
Vanquis offered the kind of assistance I would expect at this point.
But Mr M says that Vanquis should have been aware of his situation before 2017 and offered 
help much earlier. And I can see hes referred to another complaint dealt with by this service 
which he feels is similar to his. But the complaint Mr M has mentioned  while similar in 
terms of the issue raised being irresponsible lending, is different as it involves a different 
type of credit facility. And the applicable regulations are not the same.  
Here, the relevant regulations relating to credit cards during 2013  2017 are set out in      
The Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance. This says a firm must 
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing financial difficulty. This means that 
Vanquis needed to monitor how Mr M was managing his monthly repayments.
    
So, Ive looked at Mr M's use of his credit card account from 2013 to see what his repayment 
record showed. Having done so, I can see that Mr M has sometimes - over the years, 
exceeded his credit limit and made some late payments. So, Ive thought carefully about 
whether this was enough of an indicator to suggest that Vanquis ought to have stopped him 
using his card.  
But I think the activity on Mr Ms account also suggests that whenever Mr M stepped over his 
credit limit or missed a payment, he made a payment to put this right. And I can see from 
Vanquis records that on some occasions any fees incurred were waived. So, I think its fair 
to say that Vanquis did offer some assistance  albeit perhaps not as much as Mr M may 
have hoped for.
I note that Mr M did undertake a large number of cash advances. But this is a facility on the 
account which he is entitled to use. And I dont think this means that Vanquis should have 
known he was using the cash advances for gambling transactions. Equally, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr M consecutively failed to make payment at all on his account 
(during the period Im looking at), which good industry practice (and the later regulator) 
suggested was on its own an indicator of financial difficulty either. 
So overall and without being able to use the benefit of hindsight, I don't think there was 
enough in Mr Ms repayment record itself to suggest it was demonstrable Mr M was 
experiencing financial difficulty before he contacted it in 2017. And I dont consider that any difficulty Mr M was experiencing was obvious to the extent that Vanquis ought to have 
realised it and so ought to have withdrawn Mr Ms credit card. 
I do very much sympathise with Mr Ms financial difficulties and understand he will be 
disappointed with the outcome I have reached. But ultimately, I have to consider whether 
Vanquis has done anything wrong here and I dont consider it has. So, it follows that I cant 
fairly uphold the complaint.
As this complaint was referred to us some time ago, its not clear what the status of Mr Ms 
outstanding debt from this credit card is. If Mr M has a balance outstanding, I would urge him 
to contact Vanquis or any agents it has appointed (or sold the debt to) and discuss 
repayment terms applicable to his current financial situation if he hasnt already done so.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman