DRN-2804752
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Zopa Limited 
was of unsatisfactory quality. He asks that the expenses he incurred as a result of the faulty 
car are reimbursed.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr S attended a car dealership with the view of test driving a particular car. 
He says when he arrived, he wasnt able to test the car as planned as the manager was 
unavailable. He says he then made arrangements to return. Mr S returned a few days later 
and agreed to take the car which was financed via a three-year hire purchase agreement 
with Zopa. The car was just over three years old and had a mileage of 36,800.
Mr S says that within only a few minutes of driving the car away from the dealership he 
became concerned about its engine noise. He took the car back to the dealership and a 
member of staff accompanied him on a test drive. Mr S was advised the noise was a 
characteristic of the car as it was a three-cylinder engine. Mr S took the car home.
Mr S says that the noise from the engine got worse so after only a few days he complained 
to both the dealership and Zopa that he didnt like the noise from the cars engine and said 
had he been able to test drive it he wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase. He said he 
would like to be able to swap it or return it. Zopa responded by sending Mr S its complaints 
process and starting an investigation. 
Mr S says that the dealership at first agreed for him to take the car back but when he was on 
his way to hand it back, the dealership called and said it had changed its mind. The 
dealership said it wouldnt take the car back as there was no fault with it. 
Zopa also didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that Mr S wasnt able to reject the car due 
to disliking the noise made by the three-cylinder engine. It said as there was no fault with the 
car the grounds for rejecting a car set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 didnt apply.
Mr S says the noise continued to get worse and he noticed a loss of power on occasions. He 
arranged for the car to be inspected and a diagnostic test run to check the car. The 
diagnostic revealed a fault code relating to the crankshaft and he was told the engine noise 
wasnt normal for the car. He was advised to take the car to a local garage for further 
inspection and that he shouldnt continue to use it.
Mr S sent several emails to Zopa about the results of the diagnostic test and said he 
intended to have the car repaired under the warranty that had been supplied with it. Zopa 
said that Mr S should get back in touch if the repairs were unsuccessful.
Mr S says when he made enquiries about the warranty covering the cost of the repairs, he 
was told that it wouldnt cover as the faults with the car were considered as pre-existing. Mr 
S says he then decided to arrange the repairs himself. 
In May 2020 Mr S emailed Zopa and explained that the dealership wasnt co-operating and 
that he had spent £1,024 on repairs so far as the warranty company wouldnt cover the cost 
of fixing the faults. He said further work was still required and it was unfair that he had been 
sold a faulty car. Zopa said it would re-open his complaint.
Zopa contacted the dealership who said it wasnt prepared to assist Mr S with the cost of the 
repairs as it hadnt been aware of the warranty companys decision not to help. It said it 
hadnt seen the car and it hadnt authorised any repairs.
Zopa decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint in light of the dealerships view. It said Mr S 
had authorised and carried out the repair work on the car before telling it that he had wanted 
to make a claim. And this meant it hadnt been able to investigate the faults in order for it to 
consider whether they would have constituted a right to repair under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015. 
Mr S said that, although repairs had been carried out, the issue with the car hadnt been 
fixed. He said he had been advised the car had required a new engine due to swarf being 
found in the oil. Mr S said he couldnt afford this repair, but as he needed a car, he had 
decided that it would be better to use this car as a part exchange on another one. Mr S 
explained he had approached a different dealership who agreed to take the car, but Mr S 
said he suffered a loss as its value had been affected by the fault with the engine. He said 
the difference between the price hed paid, and the part exchange price was £1,446.
Mr S made a complaint to this service and said he had been sold a car that had been faulty 
from the point of supply and it wasnt fair that hed had to pay for repairs and had also lost 
out when part exchanging it due to its condition.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that from 
the evidence provided, he thought the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. And he didnt think Mr S had acted unreasonably by seeking to mitigate his position 
by arranging to have the car repaired and then when further repairs were required part-
exchanging it.  
Our investigator said that as the expenses incurred by Mr S had resulted from the condition 
of the car it would be fair for Zopa to reimburse him where appropriate. He said Zopa should 
repay Mr S £1,864.26 for repairs, £540 consequential loss arising from when the car was 
part exchanged for less than the expected value due to the engine fault and £200 
compensation for having to deal with the faulty car. Our investigator also said Zopa should 
reimburse Mr S ones instalment to reflect the loss of use he had from the car while getting it 
repaired.
Mr S agreed with our investigators view but Zopa disagreed. Zopa said it accepted the car 
may have had faults, but Mr S hadnt allowed it an opportunity of investigating the issues 
hed been experiencing with the car. It said it was unfair for it to now have to reimburse Mr 
Ss costs and losses when it hadnt been able to authorise repairs or consider what the most 
cost-effective way of resolving the issue might have been. 
As Zopa disagreed with our investigators view the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr S is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Zopa is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car was three-years old, and with a mileage of 36,800. And I think that, taking into 
account these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to be issues with 
maintenance and repair after a reasonable period of time, as components of the car would 
have been subjected to some wear and tear through use. 
Mr S says he experienced issues with the car from the moment he collected it from the 
supplying dealer though he was told the noise from the engine was a characteristic of the car 
having a three cylinder engine. Due to his concerns over the noise the engine was making, 
Mr S arranged for the car to be inspected. 
Ive seen from the copies of the emails that have been provided that Mr S informed Zopa 
about his decision to have the car inspected at the end of March 2020 so that was within the 
first month he had the car. He also provided a copy of this report and told Zopa that faults 
had been found. 
While I appreciate Mr S told Zopa he was going to have the car fixed via the warranty, I cant 
see that Zopa gave any advice that if this shouldnt be the case the Mr S must not authorise 
his own repairs. I think this would have been reasonable as Zopa had been given proof there 
were issues with the car that needed repairs which had arisen within a short time of his 
acquiring it.
The warranty company appears to have declined covering the cost of the repairs on the 
basis the car had pre-existing faults. And although I accept that at this point Mr S should 
have made contact with Zopa and the supplying dealer, the issue for me to decide is 
whether I can fairly say that his decision to go ahead with the repairs was so unreasonable it 
would be unfair to hold Zopa responsible for the costs/loss he then incurred.
This is because Mr S sought advice about what was wrong with the car and both the 
diagnositic report undertaken in March and the repairs that were then carried out on the 
timing chain kit and gasket were consistent with each other. The engine management light 
was also illuminated and I think its likely Mr S would have been advised these were 
necessary repairs. He needed the use of the car for personal reasons and I think its 
understandable he would have been anxious to have the car in good working order. The 
longer the repairs were delayed then the more likely the engine was being damaged.
It was after the first repairs hadnt solved the noise from the engine that the swarf was then 
found in the oil meaning that a new engine was required. Mr S wasnt able to cover the cost 
of this repair. Uisng the car as a part exchange for another car was, I think, a sensible option 
for him. Zopa says it isnt fair for it to be held liable for the costs of the repairs and the loss Mr S 
incurred part exchanging the car as it wasnt given any opportunity to either investigate itself 
or offer assistance to him. It was prevented from finding the most cost-effective outcome. 
Zopa isnt necessarily challenging the quality of the car. And I think in light of the evidence 
provided by Mr S its clear there were serious faults with the engine which were experienced 
by him within a short period after hed acquired it. I think, looking at the diagnostic report, 
that the noise he had complained about from the engine was linked to the engine faults. So, I 
am satisfied there was a fault present from the point of supply and the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
As the car wasnt of satisfactory quality then Zopa would have been responsible for the 
necessary repairs. I dont know whether the dealership would have been willing to carry out 
those repairs or whether it would have been agreed they should be carried out by a third-
party garage, but those repairs were required. I dont think its fair that because Mr S wasnt 
aware he needed to have them authorised first that he cant now claim this cost back. He 
only incurred the cost because he had been supplied with a car that had a serious engine 
fault.
The repairs werent successful but rather than undergo further expensive repairs, Mr S part-
exchanged the car. I think its more likely than not that the loss he made on the car was less 
than the cost of a new engine. I cant reasonably criticise Mr S for making that decision, and 
again, he was only put in that position due to the quality of the car.
So, although Mr Ss actions didnt permit Zopa to become involved in investigating the issue 
with the car I think it would be unfair in these circumstances for him not to be reimbursed for 
the costs and loss he sustained dealing with the faulty car. 
I agree with Mr S that our investigators recommended settlement is fair. He has calculated 
what the car should have been worth at the time Mr S part exchanged using the available 
guides; he has taken into account the time Mr S could not use the car as well as the impact 
this had him and finally, he required only that the repairs to the engine were reimbursed and 
no other maintenance issues. I think this approach has been fair and reasonable and so I am 
also asking Zopa make these reimbursements.
I also think that Mr S suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience having to deal with 
the faulty car. Looking at the impact this has had on him, I think compensation of £200 would 
be fair and reasonable.
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Zopa to do the following:
Reimburse Mr S £1,864.26 for the cost of the repairs carried out to the cars engine. 
Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S the amount of £540 being the consequential loss suffered by Mr S when he 
part exchanged the car together with interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of the part-exchange until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr S one months instalment under the agreement to reflect the period he 
was unable to use the car, or its use was restricted due to the engine fault. Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the 
faulty car.
My final decision
As set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I am asking Zopa Limited to do the 
following:
 Reimburse Mr S £1,864.26 for the cost of the repairs carried out to the cars engine. 
Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S the amount of £540 being the consequential loss suffered by Mr S when he 
part exchanged the car together with interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of the part-exchange until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr S one months instalment under the agreement to reflect the period he 
was unable to use the car, or its use was restricted due to the engine fault. Interest is to 
be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the 
faulty car.
If Zopa Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman