DRN-3552177
The complaint
Miss C complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed her current account and savings 
account. She feels she has lost out on the interest she would have earned had her savings 
account remained open.
What happened
Miss C previously held a savings account and a current account with HSBC. In 2019 they 
decided to close both accounts, which Miss C complained about. HSBC agreed to pay her 
compensation representing interest she should have received when the account closed. 
They had made an error in their previous calculation. HSBCs account closure letter told her 
she couldnt open accounts with HSBC or other banks in the HSBC group.
Miss C appears to have been able to open a new current account and savings account in 
2020. HSBC reviewed these accounts and again decided to close them. They didnt give 
Miss C their reason(s). Again, Miss C complained that she has lost out on interest she would 
have earned on her savings account had it remained open. HSBC rejected her complaint, so 
she brought it to us.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. They concluded HSBC could 
close her accounts, they didnt need to give her their reason(s), and they gave her the 
correct notice period under the account terms and conditions. HSBC had also been clear 
that she wasnt to open accounts with them after they closed her previous accounts. HSBC 
didnt need to pay Miss C compensation in these circumstances.
Miss C rejected the outcome our investigator reached and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. So, her complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why
HSBC like all banks has the discretion to terminate its relationship with their customers. So, 
HSBC deciding to close Miss Cs current account and savings account is not unfair. HSBC 
also does not need to reveal its reasons for closing the accounts. Miss C understandably 
wants to know why her accounts were closed, but I wont be directing HSBC to reveal their 
reason(s). I have reviewed their reasons and find they are legitimate and not unlawful.
Miss C believes she should be paid the interest she would have earned on her regular 
savings account had it remained open. But I am not awarding her compensation. The main 
reason is because Miss C was previously told she shouldnt open accounts with HSBC after 
her previous accounts were closed. This was expressly stated in the closure letter she 
received for those accounts. 
So, strictly speaking neither of Miss Cs accounts should have opened, meaning Miss C 
wouldnt have earned any interest had events taken place as they should have. I also note 
that one of the stated reasons for closing an account in HSBCs terms and conditions is that 
a customer wasnt entitled to have the account.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman