DRN-3974259
The complaint
Mr B complains he was mis-sold a finance agreement by Decidebloom Limited trading as 
Stoneacre York (Stoneacre).
This complaint has been brought to us by Mrs E acting on Mr Bs behalf. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Mr B throughout this decision. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr B and his wife visited a local dealership to replace their car. Mr B says 
they didnt want to spend a lot of money, so they chose a car that was just over three years 
old with a cash price of £11,990. The dealer offered £4,325 in part exchange for their old car, 
leaving £7,665 to pay. 
Mr B says hed originally planned to pay for the car from savings, as hed done with previous 
cars. He says he signed a hire purchase agreement because the sales staff led them to 
believe there was no charge for this. He agreed to put down a £500 cash deposit, with the 
remaining amount being repaid over 60 months.
Stoneacre say Mr B e-signed various documents, which they emailed to him. They say he 
hand-signed the finance agreement and wouldve been given a copy of it. 
The documents Mr B had signed said hed agreed to repay finance for the car and additional 
items, which Ill summarise:
Cash price of car £11,990
Five year guarantee £1,595
Paint protection  lifetime guarantee £695
Service plan  three services £607
Cosmetic maintenance plan  three years £695
Tyre and alloy maintenance plan  three years £695
The total amount repayable under the agreement was £21,605.80. 
Mr B says he was approaching 76 years old at the time. He says hes never been very good 
at reading documents - and by that point he had hearing difficulties and needed glasses for 
reading. He says his wife was in her eighties, and unable to read small print as she was 
registered partially-sighted. 
Mr B has told us that although he knows his email address, hes never been confident as to 
how to use his email account. He says he doesnt open it regularly to read messages and 
wouldnt know how to open any attachments. 
Around two and a half years later, in September 2022, Mr B bought a different car. He paid 
for this from his savings. He received a part-exchange allowance of £8,000 for the car hed 
got from Stoneacre. But he was shocked to discover he still owed £7,245.48 to settle the 
finance agreement. 
Mr B says he was sure hed only agreed to pay around £12,000 for the car and couldnt 
understand why other charges had been added. He says hed paid for the car to be serviced 
by his local garage in November 2020 and November 2021, as hed always done with his 
previous cars. 
On 5 September 2022 Mr B complained to Stoneacre that the agreement had been mis-sold 
to him. He said he wouldnt have agreed to it if hed known what he was signing up to. 
Stoneacre didnt accept theyd done anything wrong. But they said they recognised Mr B had 
been a good customer, having bought other cars from them. As a goodwill gesture they 
made various offers to reimburse some of the additional items purchased, ultimately offering 
him £2,750. Mr B didnt accept this, so the offer was withdrawn.
Stoneacre issued their final response, saying they hadnt upheld the complaint because they 
didnt think the finance agreement was mis-sold. They said their staff are trained to a high 
standard and explain all aspects of the arrangement the customer is entering into. Taking 
into account the various documents Mr B had signed, they were satisfied the sale of the 
finance agreement was fair and reasonable. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
Stoneacre had mis-sold the agreement. Although he accepted Mr B had signed documents 
showing the various costs and payments to be made, the investigator didnt think this meant 
Stoneacre had thoroughly explained how it would operate. 
The investigator thought that, if Mr B had been made aware hed be required to pay a total of 
£21,605.80 for a car priced £11,990, hed have paid for it from his savings. So, he thought it 
would be fair for Stoneacre to refund the difference between the cars cash price and the 
total amount Mr B had paid under the agreement, which was £8,271.38. But the investigator 
noted Mr B got £754.52 back when the car was sold, so he thought this should be deducted 
from the amount to be refunded. 
Stoneacre disagreed with the investigators view. Ill summarise their comments:
Their staff cant reasonably be expected to remember conversations with all 
customers. This complaint was raised two and a half years following the sale. 
Stoneacre provided a vehicle order form and compliance document clearly itemising 
the cost of each additional product. Mr B had e-signed to confirm his understanding. 
Mr B was given pre-contract credit information in good time with the option to take it 
away to digest. He was made aware he could withdraw from the agreement if he 
wished to do so. 
Information was supplied on all products and types of agreements so Mr B could 
consider which best suited his demands and needs. The finance agreement provided 
the key financial information and clearly warned him not to sign it unless he was 
prepared to be legally bound by its terms. 
The fact that Mr B had the car serviced elsewhere doesnt mean he wasnt made 
aware hed bought a service plan. He had the car serviced by Stoneacre in August 
2022. 
The fact that Mr B paid cash for previous cars, or that he had savings in place to buy 
this car outright, doesnt mean that was what he would have chosen to do on this 
occasion. Savings can be used for a variety of reasons. The finance agreement gave 
him the options of spreading the cost over a fixed term, withdrawing and settling 
using his savings, or paying off the loan early at any stage. 
Although Mr B raised a complaint about this agreement on 5 September 2022, the 
car wasnt sold until 19 January 2023 when a new keeper was recorded. This raises a question as to why he hadnt used his savings to settle the agreement sooner to 
avoid further interest charges. 
Stoneacre provided an email from the business manager who conducted the transaction. 
They asked for an ombudsman to review the case again.
After reviewing the evidence, I wrote to both parties setting out my initial thoughts. I said I 
agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, and that Stoneacre should 
refund Mr B the difference between the amount hed paid under the agreement and the cash 
price of the car. I said I calculated this to be £8,271.38, to which interest should be added.
Mr B responded, stressing that Stoneacre had never serviced the car.
Stoneacre provided further information and comments, much of which repeated evidence we 
already held. Ill summarise the additional points they made:
The mass of signed documents support that Stoneacre provided a high level of 
explanation. They showed us copies of two additional documents, headed Vehicle 
Order Form and Dealer Declaration. 
The Product Disclosure Document forms part of the disclosure requirements set by 
the FCA under CONC rules. The customer doesnt pay anything for Stoneacres 
services, but a range of products are available to purchase. 
FCA rules require customers to be fully informed of all aspects of the transaction. 
The number of documents is required to detail all terms of the agreement entered 
into. 
Mr B didnt lack recent experience in purchasing vehicles - hed purchased his 
previous vehicle from them in November 2016.
The finance agreement wouldnt have been sent by email. Mr B hand-signed this 
document and wouldve been given a copy of it. The finance company would also 
have posted him a copy, giving him a further chance to read the terms and withdraw 
from the agreement within 14 days if he wanted to do so.
Mr B was taken through the order form and compliance document, he e-signed them, 
and they were emailed to him. Stoneacre provided screenshots showing theyd sent 
Mr B two emails on 6 February 2020, which hed opened three days later. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint relates to a hire purchase agreement, for which Stoneacre acted as credit 
broker. Im satisfied this is something I can look into for him. When considering whether this 
agreement was mis-sold Ive had regard for relevant law, rules, and guidance. 
Relevant law, rules, and guidance
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for businesses such as 
Stoneacre to follow, which can be found on the FCA website. This includes a general 
principle that businesses must pay due regard to the information needs of their customers 
and communicate information to them in a way thats fair, clear, and not misleading.  
More detailed rules and guidance are set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The rule in paragraph 4.2.5 says certain things must be explained to the customer before an 
agreement such as this one is made. The explanation must be adequate to place the customer in a position to assess whether the agreement is suitable for his needs and 
financial situation. 
The explanation would need to include how much Mr B would have to pay each month, and 
how much hed have to pay in total under the agreement. Explanations may be given 
verbally or in writing. But I think its important to note that giving some of the required 
information verbally triggers a requirement for certain other information to be explained in the 
same way. 
The guidance at paragraph 4.2.7 of CONC says that, when deciding on the level and extent 
of the explanation required, the lender or anyone acting on its behalf should consider factors 
including:
the amount and duration of credit to be provided,
the actual and potential costs of the credit, and
to the extent that its evident and discernible, the customers level of understanding of 
the agreement, and of the information and explanation provided about it.
Ive also considered the FCAs published guidance for firms on the fair treatment of 
vulnerable customers. Vulnerable customers are defined as those who, due to their personal 
circumstances, are especially susceptible to harm - particularly when a firm is not acting with 
appropriate levels of care. In relation to communication, I note that the guidance says:
4.6.2 Low capability or physical disabilities may result in specific communication needs. 
Several factors can drive low capability, including low literacy, numeracy, poor 
knowledge of financial products and cognitive disabilities. Physical conditions can 
also result in specific communication needs. For example, sight and hearing 
impairments can make some channels of communication impossible to use and 
makes alternative formats essential.
4.6.8 Where disclosures are standardised by rules, firms must ensure they comply with 
mandatory disclosure requirements. However, this should not prevent them from 
additionally providing information in a form that meets the communication needs of 
vulnerable consumers.
4.7.1 Some vulnerable consumers may be concerned that asking for clarification on 
seemingly basic terms or calculations, or for extra thinking time could be perceived 
negatively.
4.7.3 Firms should proactively check that consumers with characteristics of vulnerability 
that may impact their comprehension, understand information provided.
Mr Bs needs, financial situation, and personal circumstances
Mr B told us he didnt want to spend a lot of money on this car. I note that the cash price was 
£11,990. Mr B was given £4,325 part-exchange allowance on his previous car and paid a 
cash deposit of £500, leaving £7,165 to pay. Ive seen evidence showing he had more than 
enough savings to cover that amount. 
The finance proposal form shows Mr B was approaching 76 years old at the time he entered 
into the agreement. It was due to last for five years, during which time the total amount payable was £21,605.80. I consider this to be a large financial commitment, both in terms of 
the amount of credit and the length of time over which Mr B was to repay it. I think this was a 
relevant factor for Stoneacre to consider when deciding on the level of explanation required 
before the agreement was made. 
Mr B says he doesnt wear glasses all the time but needs them to read. Ive seen no 
evidence as to whether he put his glasses on during his visit to the dealership that day. Hes 
told us he had hearing difficulties. He says he now has hearing aids in both ears but didnt 
have them at the time. I think it unlikely that Stoneacres sales staff would have realised Mr B 
needed glasses to read. But I think it wouldve been evident that his hearing was impaired. 
Mr B says his wife, who was 85 years old at the time, wouldnt have been able to see any of 
the documents shown to him that day as she was registered partially-sighted. I think it likely 
that it wouldve been evident she wouldnt be able to help Mr B clarify any inconsistencies or 
misunderstandings as to what had been said and what was written on the documents.
Stoneacre have told us that Mr B bought his previous car from them in November 2016. But I 
dont think hed have been familiar with how a hire purchase agreement works, because hes 
told us he hasnt bought a car on finance for over 20 years. He says hes never been very 
good at reading documents, which hasnt been something hes ever had to do during his 
working life. 
Mr B says he knows his email address and how to open messages, but that he wouldnt 
know how to open and scroll through any attached documents. I think if theyd asked him 
about this, Stoneacres staff wouldve realised Mr B would have difficulty reading documents 
sent to him by email.  
Was adequate explanation given to Mr B before he signed the agreement?
I appreciate it isnt possible for either party to recall exactly what was said before Mr B 
signed the agreement due to the length of time thats elapsed. Where I cant be certain what 
happened, I consider whats most likely.
Stoneacre feel they gave Mr B a high level of explanation of the agreement - and that the 
mass of documents Mr B signed support this. 
Theyve told us that, when their business manager first meets a customer, he starts by 
talking them through a Product Regulation Disclosure document to explain their role as 
credit broker. 
The business manager says he takes each customer through a first order form to confirm the 
deal, explains the process, then guides them through every stage of the paperwork, 
including the option of purchasing additional products. He says Mr B agreed to a higher 
payment than had been shown on the first order form, because he wanted the extra cover 
the additional products provided.
I havent seen a copy of the first order form. I assume this confirmed the original deal for the 
car, without the additional products. Ive reviewed copies of the following documents 
Stoneacre provided:
A document headed Product and Regulation Disclosure. I note this says: What will 
you have to pay for our services? You will pay nothing. I think this may explain why 
Mr and Mrs B mistakenly believed it wouldnt cost them anything to pay for the car 
using the finance agreement.
A three-page document explaining various types of credit agreement available.A document headed Stoneacre Loan Decision, requiring Mr B to tick and e-sign to 
confirm hed been given an explanation of all the loan types. Mr B is recorded as 
having e-signed this document at 2.27pm. 
A document headed Finance Proposal Form.  Mr B is recorded as having e-signed 
this document at 2.28pm. 
So, I can see that by around 2.30pm Mr B had chosen a car he wanted to buy, and 
Stoneacres sales staff had completed a first order form. Their business manager had taken 
him through six pages of information about Stoneacres role as a credit broker, the different 
types of credit agreement available and the credit referencing process. 
I consider some of this information to have been quite complex. And none of the documents 
Ive seen up to that point contained any specific information about the agreement Mr B 
ultimately entered into. 
Stoneacre say the additional products Mr B purchased were clearly itemised on a vehicle 
order form and compliance document. Ive seen copies of:
A four-page document headed Vehicle Order Form, containing financial information 
followed by terms and conditions.
A Compliance Document.
Mr B is recorded as having electronically signed these documents at 3.50pm and 3.51pm 
respectively. Having reviewed the timeline of events, I think it most likely that Mr B had been 
with Stoneacres business manager for at least an hour and a half by the time he 
electronically signed the new order form and compliance form itemising the costs of the 
additional products. 
When thinking about the length of time involved here, I particularly bear in mind what Mr B 
has told us about his hearing difficulty, his low confidence in reading documents, and his 
lack of recent experience with motor finance agreements. I think all of this information 
wouldve been a lot for him to take in, read on-screen, and understand. And Im not satisfied 
that he was able to properly hear, read, and understand what he was electronically signing. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement Mr B signed. This contained key financial 
information he needed to weigh up when deciding whether to go ahead with the finance 
option, rather than buying the car outright. Given the large amount of credit involved, I think 
the information on that document needed to be explained very clearly to Mr B before he 
signed it. I think it was particularly important to ensure hed understood the total amount hed 
be required to pay. 
And Im not persuaded that it was adequately explained. Having agreed to part-exchange his 
previous car for this one, Mr B needed to decide how to fund the outstanding balance of 
£7,665. Hes told us he didnt want to spend a lot of money on this car; had more than 
enough savings to buy it outright; and originally intended to do so. 
I do accept that the idea of keeping his savings for other purposes may have been attractive 
to Mr B. But I consider it highly unlikely that hed have chosen to go ahead with this 
agreement if hed been made aware that hed be committing himself to pay a further £4,287 
for additional products and a charge of £5,328.80 for credit, bringing the total cost of the deal 
to £21,605.80.
Stoneacre say Mr B hand-signed the agreement, and that he wouldve been given a copy of 
it. Theyve pointed out that he had 14 days to withdraw if he chose to do so. Ive considered 
this point. I note that the itemised list of additional products could only be found in the vehicle order 
form and compliance document, which were provided to Mr B solely by email. Ive seen a 
screenshot showing Stoneacre sent Mr B two emails with a total of 11 documents attached. 
It shows he opened one of these emails on 9 February 2020. But Ive seen nothing to show 
whether he was able to open any of the attachments. Hes told us he wouldnt know how to 
do that. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm whether Mr B was given a copy of the 
agreement after he signed it, or whether the finance company sent him a copy through the 
post. But in any event, Im satisfied Stoneacre had an obligation to provide Mr B with 
adequate explanation before the agreement was made. And Im not persuaded that 
happened here, because I dont think he understood the documents he signed. So I dont 
consider it relevant for me to consider whether he could have withdrawn from the agreement 
at a later stage.
Ive seen evidence showing Mr B paid to have the car serviced by his local garage in 2020 
and 2021. I dont think hed have done that if the additional products and associated extra 
costs had been adequately explained to him - such as the fact that hed be paying over £600 
for a servicing plan.  
Mr B told us he first became aware of the additional charges when he decided to replace the 
car. Ive seen an invoice showing he part-exchanged it on 5 September 2022. I dont 
consider it relevant for me to consider whether Mr B asked Stoneacre to service the car 
around that time - or how long it took for the car to be registered to a new keeper.
Summary
Stoneacre say all the main aspects of the transaction were explained by way of their 
compliance documents. Their business manager has told us he sticks to the process with 
every customer to ensure theyre always treated fairly. 
I do appreciate financial businesses are required to provide certain standardised information. 
But I think the FCA rules and guidance make it clear that the level of pre-contractual 
explanation required will vary according to individual circumstances. And that mandatory 
disclosure requirements shouldnt prevent businesses providing information in a way that 
meets the needs of vulnerable customers. 
Ive seen a copy of the Dealer Declaration the business manager completed for this 
transaction. Amongst other things, this confirms:
I believe the customer understood the explanations given; I believe the credit offered is 
suitable for this customer in my opinion, this customer is not a vulnerable customer.
Im not persuaded that this was the case. I consider this to have been a large amount of 
credit. And I think there would have been evident and discernible signs that Mr B would 
struggle - and was in fact struggling - to properly hear, read, and understand a large volume 
of information about financial products he wasnt familiar with. 
And I dont think it was reasonable to rely on Mr B being able to check through and clarify 
any misunderstandings by reviewing the documentation after he got home. Especially as 
most of the documents were provided to him solely by email. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the explanation provided was adequate to put Mr 
B in the position of being able to assess whether this agreement, and the additional products 
and services detailed within it, were suitable for his needs and financial situation.Putting things right
The finance agreement shows the total amount payable was £21,605.80. Ive seen a copy of 
the settlement quote Mr B obtained dated 3 September 2022, showing the remaining 
balance to have been £8,589.90 at that time. So, I calculate Mr B to have paid £13,015.90 
up to that point. 
The quote shows Mr B would need to pay another £7,245.48 to settle the agreement. Ive 
seen a copy of an invoice showing he part-exchanged the car on 5 September 2022, 
confirming this finance settlement. So in total, I calculate Mr B to have paid £20,261.38 
under this agreement. 
If the cost of the additional products and total amount payable under the finance agreement 
had been adequately explained to Mr B, I think hed have chosen simply to pay the cars 
cash price, after deduction of the part-exchange allowance. And I think hed have funded 
that from his savings, as hed originally planned. 
So, I think Stoneacre should refund Mr B the difference between the amount he paid under 
this agreement and the cash price of the car. I calculate this to be £8,271.38.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Decidebloom Limited to 
Refund Mr B £8,271.38, this being the total amount hes paid in excess of the cars 
cash price.
Add interest to the refunded amount, calculated from the date of each overpayment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
If Stoneacre consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr B how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman