DRN-2335743
Complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr J took out the PPI policy alongside a credit card he applied for in August 2001.
The policy cost 75p per £100 of Mr Js outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr J originally told us the sale took place during a meeting. But after our adjudicators view, 
he said it was sold over the phone. Barclaycard says the policy was sold during a meeting 
and its provided a copy of the application form that was completed at the time. Looking at 
the detail on the application form, I think the policy was sold during a meeting. 
In the meeting, Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr J that the policy was optional, and it 
had to get his consent before applying PPI to his account. Mr J says he was told he had to 
have PPI in order to get the card. But Barclaycard says Mr J chose to take it.
On the application form, there is a section about PPI and two separate boxes to tick either 
yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left blank. 
Mr J has signed the application form, confirming that he agrees with the selections on it. So, 
I think Mr J was aware he didnt have to take PPI in order to get the card  that he had a 
choice. And I think he chose to take the PPI at the time.
Mr J says he didnt receive any advice from Barclaycard. But Barclaycard has reviewed the 
sale as though advice was given. This puts more responsibility on Barclaycard  it means it 
had to check the policy was suitable for Mr J. So, in fairness to him, Ive considered the case 
on the basis that advice was given. 
Based on what Mr Js told us about his circumstances at the time, the policy appears to have 
been suitable for him.
From the information Ive seen, Mr J was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the things that might have made it harder for him to claim on 
the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or unusual employment 
circumstances. 
Mr J says that he suffered with backaches, but this didnt start until 2005  a long time after 
the policy was sold. So, this would not have affected his ability to claim on the policy and he 
hasnt said anything else to make me think the policy wasnt right for him.
Mr J says he would not have received any sick pay from his employer, but they did provide 
one years death in service cover. Mr J also says his partner and her parents could have 
helped him. 
The death in service cover provided by Mr Js employer would not have helped him to make 
his repayments if he lost his job or was too unwell to work. And while his partner or her 
parents may have offered to help, circumstances could change which means their help could 
not always be relied on. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr J if he fell on hard 
times. 
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mr J. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr J, Barclaycard also needed to give 
him enough information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr J about the terms and cost of the policy 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was 
suitable for Mr J, I dont think better information would have made a difference to his 
decision to buy it.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr J because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr J, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman