DRN-2096550
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the compensation HFC Bank Limited (HFC) has offered to settle her 
complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out at alongside 
a loan.
What happened
Mrs H applied for loan in June 2004 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. The PPI was 
paid for by a monthly premium. The loan was settled in September 2006 and the last 
monthly premium was taken on 16 September 2006. 
Mrs H has now complained the PPI was mis-sold. HFC has agreed to uphold the complaint 
and offered to pay compensation to Mrs H. 
Mrs H is unhappy with the amount of compensation that HFC has offered. 
Our adjudicator said what HFC had offered in compensation was fair. Mrs H remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. Mrs H is represented by a 
third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HFC has agreed to uphold Mrs Hs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and pay her 
compensation to settle the complaint. So, in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI 
came to be sold, only at whether the compensation HFC has offered and paid is fair. 
When looking at compensation for mis-sold PPI it is expected that as far as possible the 
consumer is put in the position they would have been if they had never have been mis-sold 
the PPI and not paid anything for it. 
This means refunding all the costs paid for the PPI and also paying some compensatory 
interest for times when Mrs H may have been out of pocket for what she paid for the PPI.
HFC has records about Mrs Hs account showing how much the monthly premium was and 
how long the policy was active. It has provided this information and its calculations to show 
how it worked out what was due to Mrs H in compensation.
In this case Mrs H took out a PPI policy that was paid for monthly, at a cost of £4.60. She 
paid this premium together with her loan repayment every month. Mrs H took out the PPI in 
June 2004, and the first premium was paid in July 2004. She settled her loan in September 
2006 and the last premium for the PPI was paid on 16 September 2006. So, in total Mrs H 
made 27 payments of £4.60 for the premiums. That is a total of £124.70, which is what HFC 
has offered to refund. 
In addition, HFC has worked out 8% simple interest on each payment Mrs H made from the 
date it was made to the date of settlement and this comes to £138.95. HFC are required by 
HM Revenue and Customs to take off basic rate tax from the compensatory interest. Once 
this was done it gave a total of compensation due to Mrs H of £235.36.
I cannot see that there is anything else due to Mrs H. She is being refunded all the premiums 
she paid and being compensatory interest on the amount. So, I think the compensation that 
HFC has offered and paid in the circumstances of this case is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im not upholding this complaint as I am satisfied that 
what HFC Bank Limited has offered to Mrs H to settle her complaint is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman