DRN-3969624
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Trading 212 UK Limited decided to close his trading account. He 
complains that hes lost out financially and to put things right he wants compensation for 
investment loss and a payment to reflect the stress caused by what happened. 
What happened
In September 2022, Mr D told us that hed been unable to log in to his own Trading 212 
account so hed logged in using a third party account instead.
Trading 212 told us that on 13 September 2022, it was contacted by a third party claiming 
that they had trouble accessing their account. The next day, Trading 212 messaged Mr D 
and asked him to provide certain information to validate his identity. Mr D was warned that 
failure to provide the requested information within three days would result in closure of his 
Trading 212 account. 
In October 2022, Trading 212 sent a message to Mr D telling him that it had made a 
business decision that it no longer wished to offer him any investment services and it had 
decided to close his account with immediate effect in accordance with its published terms 
and conditions. It said it had no obligation to give any reason.
In November 2022, Mr D received an email from Trading 212 which notified him that his 
Trading 212 account was closed.
When Mr D complained about this, Trading 212 told him it was because operating a third-
party account was a direct breach of the terms and conditions hed signed up to when he 
opened his account with Trading 212, so it had made the business decision to terminate his 
account.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ds complaint but didnt feel that Trading 212 had done 
anything wrong or acted unfairly by closing his account. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we focus on deciding whether a financial 
business has made any error or acted unfairly or unreasonably. We are impartial and we 
make our decisions based on a balance of probabilities.
I must take into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice 
when making my decision. 
The relevant terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ds account with Trading 212 include 
the following:
You acknowledge that you are not permitted to open and/or operate an Account with us on 
a third party's behalf, regardless of your legal relationsWe reserve the right to unilaterally 
close any such account that we become aware of, and we shall not be liable for any losses, 
damages, costs, or expenses arising from our actions under this clause.
Its not in dispute that Mr D operated an account belonging to a third party who also had an 
account on Trading 212's platform. Hes explained why he did this and I accept that Mr D 
believed this was a legitimate way to contact Trading 212 when his own account wasnt 
functioning and he had the third partys consent. But it makes no difference, because doing 
so was expressly prohibited under the terms and conditions hed signed up to in order to be 
able to operate his own Trading 212 account. 
Theres nothing in the terms and conditions that says Trading 212 had to give any notice 
before closing an account in these circumstances. So I cant fairly say that Trading 212 did 
anything wrong when it decided to close Mr Ds account in line with the terms of the 
agreement he had with Trading 212.   
Nonetheless, Trading 212 still needed to act in a fair and reasonable way and I've thought 
about this carefully. 
A security alert was triggered on Mr Ds account when it looked to Trading 212 like a third 
party had access to Mr Ds account information. Trading 212 took the reasonable step of 
restricting the account and asking for verification information whilst it investigated matters. 
During the exchange with Trading 212's Customer Services, ID and a selfie photograph 
which belonged to Mr D was sent to Trading 212 via the third party account, along with 
Mr Ds name and account number. 
As I understand things, when Mr D responded to this information request using someone 
elses account, this flagged a further security concern  and I can see why. As far as 
Trading 212 was concerned, confidential information was being provided via a third party 
account about Mr Ds account. Despite the problems it caused Mr D, I dont feel that Trading 212 acted unfairly when it 
closed Mr Ds account. Trading 212 had contacted both parties and requested additional 
identification documents and also noted that the same two devices were used to operate 
both accounts. When it didnt hear straight back from Mr D (other than via the third party 
account), Trading 212 decided to close both accounts with immediate effect. I dont think that 
was unreasonable when Mr Ds actions had given Trading 212 good reason to have security 
concerns about both accounts, bearing in mind that Mr D could have contacted Trading 212 
in a different way that wouldnt have raised any security issues.
Trading 212 has to meet regulatory requirements designed to protect its customers. How 
each financial business chooses to operate and the services they offer are matters that 
come under the oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So I cant 
uphold this complaint on the basis that Trading 212 was wrong to have prohibited Mr D from 
communicating via a third party account and Im satisfied that Trading 212 did have a fair 
reason for deciding to close his account.
All in all, after taking into account everything that Mr D and Trading 212 have told me, 
I havent seen enough to show that Trading 212 made any error or that it treated Mr D in a 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So I cant uphold this complaint. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps Mr D to understand how I've reached my 
conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome he hoped for, he will at least feel that his 
complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman