DRN-4045296
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained about a cash settlement paid by Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H made a claim under their policy following a flood at their home. Aviva 
appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the claim and Mr H and Mrs H appointed a loss 
assessor. Aviva agreed to pay a cash settlement for some bespoke furniture and Mr H and 
Mrs H said the money would go via their loss assessor to the furniture company. The money 
was paid to the furniture company in two instalments. However, before it completed the 
work, the furniture company stopped trading.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to Aviva. They said they had lost money as theyd had to pay 
for some of the work to be completed when the furniture company stopped trading. They 
said Aviva had negotiated the payment terms and it should have taken steps to ensure some 
of the money was retained until the work was complete. When Aviva replied, it said it wasnt 
responsible for the outstanding works as the full settlement had been paid to Mr H and Mrs 
Hs loss assessor.
So, Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said 
Aviva has fulfilled its obligations under the policy and didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr H and Mrs H have said the payment terms agreed by Aviva meant they lost money when 
the company supplying some furniture stopped trading. Aviva has said it was paid as a cash 
settlement and Mr H and Mrs Hs loss assessor should have retained part of the payment 
until all the work was complete. So, Ive thought about this.
It was agreed that a specific company, which I will call W, would be used to provide some of 
the furniture. W needed to make, deliver and install the furniture. A surveyor acting for Aviva 
asked W to confirm what deposit was required. W replied and said:
We would require a 50% deposit with the order confirmation, 40% prior to delivery and 10% 
retention due on satisfactory completion of our work.
The surveyor replied to W and said:
Please present an invoice for the deposit in the name of Mr [H]. This will be presented to the 
insurers to pay, along with the balance of your final invoice following the completion of works 
in approximately 12 weeks time.
W agreed to raise the paperwork the same day. Later the same day, Mr H and his loss 
assessor were copied into the emails. I note that the second invoice was meant to be 
submitted following the completion of works. From what I can see, this seemed to be 
interpreted as being at point of delivery. Ive looked at the invoices presented. Ws first 
invoice was for 50% of the amount due. It said 50% deposit with AO  Balance prior to 
Delivery. So, I think its clear what Ws understanding was of the payment terms. I havent 
seen evidence that anyone queried this on Avivas behalf or raised that this was incorrect or 
said to Mr Hs loss assessor that some of the money should or could be retained until the 
works were complete. 
W presented Mr H and Mrs Hs loss assessor with its second invoice at point of delivery. The 
loss assessor passed it to Avivas loss adjuster, a company I will call C, for payment. C then 
authorised the payment, which was paid to the loss assessor so it could pay W.
Im aware that Aviva and C are of the view that because it made a cash payment to the loss 
assessor it wasnt responsible for the whole of the second payment being passed to W 
before the work was complete. C has also argued that Mr H and Mrs Hs loss assessor was 
very experienced and should have held back some of the second payment. C told this 
service:
[Ws] original terms stated that they needed 90% before delivery so I cannot really see that 
the position has changed significantly by any communications between [the surveyor] and 
[W].
All invoices were presented for payment via the Insureds loss assessor and therefore, I am 
unclear as to what checks should have been carried out by [C] since payments were being 
made to the Insureds assessor. I would have thought that if the works had not been 
completed then the assessor would not have released funds.
The surveyor also said: Our role was limited to present the quote to [C] for a cash 
settlement, after checking the pricing included like for like work.
I also asked Aviva what checks it carried out when it was presented with the invoices. C 
replied and said it was simply acting on the instructions of the Insureds loss assessor who 
submitted the invoice and that the amounts requested were in line with Ws estimates and 
supported by invoices. C said as it wasnt privy to any contract between the assessor/ 
insured and W, no further checks were conducted.
Ive thought about this. I agree that the original terms required 90% of the money before 
delivery. However, based on what Ive seen, I think the surveyor changed those terms, even 
if unintentionally. I currently think the change to two equal payments made a difference to 
how the payments were made and that it meant it was understood that 10% couldnt be 
retained until the works were completed. 
Although its been argued that the loss assessor shouldnt have released the funds, the loss 
assessor didnt negotiate the payment terms and Im not clear why the loss assessor would 
think they had the ability to hold back some of the payment. Im also not currently persuaded 
that any ambiguity in those terms was down to the loss assessor. Im aware the surveyor 
has said its role was limited to presenting the quote to C. However, in my view, the email 
discussion shows that it went beyond this and changed the payment terms. Had the original 
payment terms been agreed, I currently think its more likely than not that the situation that 
then arose, with W having not completed all the work, but having received the full payment, 
wouldnt have happened.As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require Aviva to pay Mr H and 
Mrs H £4,020, as this is the amount they said they had to pay to complete the outstanding 
work. I also intend to say Aviva should pay interest on that amount because Mr H and Mrs H 
lost use of the money.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think the way this aspect of the claim was handled 
caused Mr H and Mrs H distress and inconvenience. It meant the impact on them of the 
company ceasing to trade was more of an issue than it might otherwise have been. Although 
they would have had to find another company to complete the work, they had the uncertainty 
of whether they would be able to get the money back. So, I think Aviva should pay Mr H and 
Mrs H £200 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 March 2023.
Aviva didnt agree with my decision. In summary, it said:
The terms of the policy didnt stipulate how it would issue payments to customers, settle 
in instalments or hold back sums. Claim settlements were reviewed on a case-by-case 
basis.
In this instance, the decision was made to pay the claim in full to the loss assessor to 
make payable as per the loss assessors agreement with the customer.
It had fulfilled the claim and settled within the terms of the policy. Its liability was 
discharged at the point of the cash settlement.
In its opinion, the issue rested with the loss assessor and the contract with the company, 
W.
Mr H and Mrs H confirmed they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive thought about this complaint again, including taking 
into account the further comments from Aviva.
Im aware that Aviva has said it fulfilled its terms when it made the payment to the loss 
assessor and that any onward payment was down to any agreement between the loss 
assessor, Mr H and Mrs H and W. However, I remain of the view that Avivas surveyor 
discussed the payment terms directly with W and changed them and that this affected how 
the payments were then requested by W and paid by the loss assessor. As I previously said, 
I think its more likely than not that the situation that then arose, with W receiving the full 
payment before it had completed the work, wouldnt have happened if the surveyor hadnt 
altered the payment terms.
As a result, I think Aviva needs to pay £4,020 so Mr H and Mrs H can complete the work and 
£200 compensation.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mr H and Mrs H £4,020 to complete the work and £200 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is decision 
that this complaint is upheld. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr H and Mrs H £4,020 for the work they paid to complete the work that W didnt 
finish.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which the claim was first made 
to the date on which it makes the payment.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman