DRN-3039187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled their request for 
a pro-rata refund of their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S purchased an annual multi-trip insurance policy, covering them from holidays 
taken in Europe. The agreed start date of the policy was 5 October 2019, with the end date 
being 4 October 2020. The policy provided Mr and Mrs S with cover for any trips within this 
period of time, for a duration of 17 days at a time. The premium charged to Mr and Mrs S for 
the cover was £455.70 and included cover for a total of 22 medical conditions.
But, on 12 July 2020, Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes, via email. They explained that 
they had heard through a news outlet, that Great Lakes were offering pro-rata refunds on 
travel insurance policies, for the period of time travel wasnt possible  because of the 
Coronavirus pandemic and the restrictions in place at the time. And so, they asked for a pro-
rata refund to be provided for their policy too.
Sometime later, Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs S. It said that no refund was due to 
Mr and Mrs S, because of when their insurance policy started, and when they contacted it to 
cancel their policy
.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this response. They said they hadnt asked Great Lakes to 
cancel the insurance policy  but instead just to provide a refund for the time they hadnt 
been able to use the policy. So, they asked Great Lakes to look into the matter again.
Great Lakes did. But its position remained the same. It said no refund was due, and Mr and 
Mrs S policy was still active. 
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with Great Lakes position on the matter, they referred 
their complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and noted that to receive a refund on a policy, the 
policy would need to be cancelled. Which is why Great Lakes had referred to cancellation of 
the policy. Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how 
they applied in this case. She explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, 
that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums in relation to the risk it covered during that time.
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed, because cover under the policy started on 5 October 2019, and 
the policy covered various risks from that point, until Mr and Mrs S asked for a pro-rata 
refund (which is essentially cancelling the policy).
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata refund, calculated based on the 
remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs S first asked for refund, to the end date of the 
policy on 4 October 2020.
Great Lakes agreed to provide this pro-rata refund. And noted this would amount to £22.79.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators opinion, or the £22.79 offered to them. 
They said;
They didnt ask to cancel their insurance policy, but instead only asked for a refund of 
the premiums they had paid, for the time they couldnt travel.
That there was around four months during the policy when they couldnt travel, but 
they wanted to it remain active, as there was time when restrictions lifted, and they 
would have been able to use the policy.
Great Lakes werent on risk for the above mentioned four months  as travel 
providers were often allowing deferment of holidays already booked.
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here. 
However, its important to note, I do realise Mr and Mrs S didnt specifically ask for their 
insurance policy to be cancelled. Ive taken this on board. But, in order to potentially receive 
any form of refund, its correct that the policy would usually need to be treated as cancelled. 
The whole premium is due for the policy year, if it is still active. So, Im satisfied that when 
thinking about this case, doing so with policy cancellation is mind, is the right, and fair, thing 
to do. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date You receive:
The policy document at the start of Your insurance; 
The renewal documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should You decide to exercise this cancellation right, You will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that You have not started a Trip to which the insurance applies and You 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of Your 14 day cancellation period You continue to have the right to 
cancel Your Policy at any time during its term by contacting Us, but no refund of premium 
will be available.
 
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of Your policy.
Im upholding this complaint in part because;
The request for a refund of some of the policy period (and therefore the need to cancel the 
policy as above) was outside the 14-day cooling-off period. And this 14-day period is the 
only time Mr and Mrs S were entitled to any form of refund under the policy. There is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines, or Mr and Mrs S insurance 
policy, for the insurer to offer a refund after the 14-day point.
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
And in the circumstances of this case, I think its fair for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata 
refund, from 12 July 2020 to the end date of the policy. Despite the above rules, guidelines 
and policy terms.
Mr and Mrs S feel that they should be provided with a pro-rata refund for a different part of 
their policy  for a four-month period from March 2020. And then after that, they feel the 
policy could remain in place, for them to use if need be. But I dont agree this is what should 
happen here.
Mr and Mrs S were insured from 5 October 2019, when policy started, until they requested a 
pro-rata refund on 12 July 2020. This cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 17 
days in duration. And this included the four-month period from March 2020.
Whilst some travel providers may have deferred holiday dates around this time, it doesnt 
mean there was nothing for Great Lakes to insure at this point. The policy would have still 
covered risks such as holiday cancellation if there was a circumstance that arose in this 
respect, that Mr and Mrs S needed to claim for. And the nature of annual multi-trip policies 
means that Great Lakes wouldnt know how many trips were booked, and when, during this 
period of time.
The premiums charged to Mr and Mrs S reflected the above cover. So, Im satisfied it is fair 
and reasonable that Great Lakes hasnt offered a refund for any part of this period of cover.
But Mr and Mrs S did contact Great Lakes on 12 July 2020, to ask for a pro-rata refund. And 
at this point, I think it would have been a fair and reasonable approach for Great Lakes to 
offer a pro-rata refund, from 12 July 2020, until the date the policy was due to end, on 4 
October 2020.
At this point, by asking for a pro-rata refund Mr and Mrs S were effectively asking for the 
policy to be cancelled. It wasnt possible to get any pro-rata refund otherwise. Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt made a claim under the insurance policy. And at this time, the coronavirus pandemic 
would have meant Mr and Mrs S were no longer travelling, and unlikely to do so for the 
remaining policy term  either abroad or in the UK. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring 
any risk under the policy from the point they were contacted about a refund.
As Great Lakes was no longer bearing any risk from that point  and with the circumstances 
of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs S a pro-rata refund, from 12 July 2020 to 4 
October 2020.
Great Lakes has now agreed to provide a pro-rata refund on this basis.
Ive thought about the figure Great Lakes has said will be refunded to Mr and Mrs S  which 
is £22.97. Great Lakes has provided information to show that it gets varying percentages of 
claims across different months of an annual multi-trip policy. And so, when calculating the 
pro-rata refund for Mr and Mrs S, it has taken this into account. 
It has offered a refund of 5% of the premium on that basis. This recognises that Mr and Mrs 
S policy was in force, and Great Lakes were on risk for 281 days, but not for the remainder 
of the policy. This approach doesnt treat Mr and Mrs S unfairly or any differently to customers in similar 
circumstances to theirs. And so, Im satisfied the refund amount of £22.79 is fair. And I wont 
be asking Great Lakes to increase this refund.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied Great Lakes Insurance SE should 
provide Mr and Mrs S with a refund of £22.79. I dont require it to do anything more than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman