DRN-2501023
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was prevented from selling some shares by Santander UK Plc and 
incurred a loss as a result. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr D attempted to contact Santander to sell some shares. He had difficulty 
contacting it by telephone, as call queues were very long  this was shortly before the Covid-
19 pandemic led to the country being put into lockdown. He says he tried to call on 
numerous occasions, waiting sometimes for as long as several hours, but to no avail. 
He says he also experienced problems logging onto his on-line Investment Hub facility and 
when he tried to call the manager at a local branch of Santander for help in selling, he found 
he wasnt available as hed had to self-isolate. 
Mr D eventually managed to contact Santander by telephone and an order to sell his shares 
was placed on 20 March 2020, with it completing on 23 March 2020. However, by this time 
the value of the shares had dropped. 
Mr D made a complaint to Santander, but it didnt uphold it. It explained that it phonelines 
had been particularly busy during the days in question, because of the pandemic. It went on 
to explain that the option to sell his shares on-line had been available to Mr D as an 
alternative and its records showed that he frequently used the service.  
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Santander. He said, in brief:
The loss incurred by Mr D between the 16 March 2020, when he first tried to contact 
Santander, and 23 March 2020 when the sale completed was around £2,000, but 
wasnt of the magnitude Mr D had suggested, of £14,000 to £16,000. 
While the investigator could understand why Mr D had tried to contact the Santander 
manager, it wouldnt have helped as he could only have directed Mr D to the usual 
ways of selling.
Santander had confirmed that although the call queuing times were long, they were 
generally about 60-90 minutes, which wasnt unusual or unreasonable given the 
unprecedented circumstances.
Santander had confirmed that thered been no technical issues with its on-line 
service over the period in question. The investigator noted that Mr D had accessed 
the Investment Hub app over the period and had successfully logged on to the on-
line service on 24 March 2020, albeit having to receive a passcode as he hadnt used 
the PC service (as opposed to the app) for some time.
Information had been provided to Mr D when his investments moved to the 
Investment Hub that explained that sales of shares could be made on-line. 
Although he understood Mr Ds frustration, he felt that couldve used the on-line 
service to sell his shares sooner.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators view. He reiterated the difficult circumstances hed 
experienced when trying to contact Santander and maintained that he had waited on the 
phone for much longer times than those suggested by Santander. 
Among other things, he said he felt let down by its promise to him as a Select customer of a 
24 hour, 365 days-a-year service in not providing better ways of contacting it. He felt the 
Investment Hub was limited and that he hadnt been made aware of the on-line sell facility. 
He was also unhappy with the way hed been dealt with after making the complaint. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr D has strong feelings about Santanders actions. Hes provided detailed 
comments to support his complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust that he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
I can quite understand the frustration Mr D felt when experiencing problems contacting 
Santander. It was at a particularly difficult and worrying time and I understand there wouldve 
been a strong sense of urgency to Mr Ds actions, as he was aware the price of his shares 
was dropping.
But to uphold his complaint I would need to be satisfied that Santander acted incorrectly or 
unfairly. And, on balance, I dont think thats the case. In respect of the phone calls, 
Santander, along with many other businesses, was experiencing a high volume of calls and 
trying to handle this with a reduction in staff numbers, many working remotely for the first 
time. This being so, I dont think it was unreasonable that there were lengthy delays in 
getting through to someone. 
I appreciate Mr D says that the delays he experienced were far beyond that indicated by 
Santander. But I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that he was impacted to a 
degree greater than other customers who were facing similar problems. Mr D has drawn 
attention to the Select service provided by Santander. But I dont think its unreasonable in 
the circumstances that Santanders level of service fell below what might normally be 
expected.  
In respect of the on-line access, again I dont think Santander appears to have acted 
incorrectly. Its demonstrated that the facility and how it worked was communicated to all 
customers, including Mr D. I understand that he mainly used the telephone app, which 
provided information about accounts but couldnt be used for selling shares. But that doesnt 
mean that he was unable to access the on-line facility on a computer, which I understand he 
did, following the sale of the shares. Santander has confirmed there were no ongoing 
technical issues with the on-line sale facility for the period in question. 
I know Mr D will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But in all the circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the 
complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman