DRN-2359430
The complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Limited didnt contact him about his whole-of-life plan, 
which he assumed had lapsed without value. He feels that he was negligently deprived of 
the value of his plan for over 15 years. 
What happened
Mr C had a whole-of-life plan that he took out in 1984 with a predecessor business of 
Phoenix Life. He stopped paying his policy premiums in 2005. Because he didnt hear 
anything from Phoenix Life, he assumed that it had lapsed without value.
 
But, in March 2020, he received a statement to show that his policy had a value of 
£13,124.18.
Mr C complained. He asked why he hadnt received any previous statements. He asked to 
cash-in his policy, but Phoenix Life said that it couldnt accept this instruction over the phone. 
It said he could complete a form on its website and the process would take 5 to 10 days.
 
Mr C phoned Phoenix Life a few days later and recalls being told that his form had been 
received and was being processed. But, when he called again ten days later, he was told 
that one of the two funds his plan was invested in had been suspended, and his policy 
surrender wasnt accepted. He hadnt been told this when hed called before.
Phoenix Life said that an administration error had meant that Mr Cs address hadnt been 
updated when it received the details of the change in October 2003. This meant that he 
didnt receive the notice that his policy had been made paid-up when hed stopped paying 
the premiums in 2005. Mr C then had a period of 13 months in which he could reinstate his 
policy. 
Phoenix Life said that it had only recently started to issue statements for paid-up policies. It 
said it hadnt been told of the decision to suspend the fund to be able to tell Mr C when he 
contacted it. But it apologised that Mr C had been told the surrender process shouldve been 
5 to 10 days when this shouldve been 10 to 15 working days.
Phoenix Life offered to cancel the policy from the date it was paid-up and pay the 
accumulated value at that time with interest at 8% simple per year. It also sent Mr C a 
cheque for £200 to acknowledge the trouble and upset he was caused. 
But Mr C didnt feel that this offer recognised that hed been deprived of being able to use or 
invest this money for over 15 years. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and felt that the offer Phoenix Life had 
made was fair. He said that, although Mr C felt that he had missed out on other investment 
opportunities for the money, it wasnt possible to say what he might have done. He said the 
8% simple interest per year added to the value from 2005 was what he would expect.
 
The investigator said that Mr C had assumed that the policy had no value as he hadnt 
received any correspondence from Phoenix Life but he could have contacted it himself to 
find out whether it did have any value. The investigator also thought it was fair to say that the 
trouble and upset Mr C was caused had started when he found out that his policy did have a 
value. So the investigator believed that the £200 Phoenix Life had offered for this was 
reasonable.
 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that Phoenix Life had failed to comply 
with the terms of the agreement by not informing him that the policy had become paid-up 
and this had deprived him of other benefits such as the right to reinstate the policy within 13 
months. He said it was reasonable to assume that he wouldve chosen to transfer his 
holdings into better performing funds, if hed been aware of them. So he believed his loss 
was greater than had been portrayed.
 
Mr C said that Phoenix Life had a duty to keep him informed about his policy and this 
outweighed the suggestion that he couldve been more proactive in contacting it himself. 
Mr C said Phoenix Life had now said that it had withdrawn its offer to him. 
The investigator clarified with Phoenix Life that its offer remained available to Mr C to accept 
if he wished. It also said that the previously suspended fund had been unsuspended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the 
same reason.
Phoenix Life has acknowledged that an administration error meant that Mr Cs address 
hadnt been updated when he told it this had changed in 2003. And it was because of this 
that he didnt receive the required letters that should have been sent when his policy was 
made paid-up. He would then have had the opportunity to reinstate his policy within 13 
months. 
But Im also mindful that it was Mr Cs decision at that time to stop paying the premiums for 
his whole-of-life policy. He then believed this had caused it to lapse without value. 
Essentially the residual value of his policy became money that Mr C didnt know he had. 
Although Phoenix Life didnt send him the letters about his policy being made paid-up at that 
time, and this may have prompted him to think about his decision to stop paying the 
premiums, I think Mr C would have been reasonably aware that stopping the premiums 
would impact on his policy. Hes said that he believed it had lapsed. If Mr C had then 
changed his mind about stopping paying the premiums to the policy soon after he had done 
this, then I think its reasonable to consider that he could have contacted Phoenix Life about 
this to find out the status of his plan.
When he found out that his policy had retained a value, Mr C took steps to surrender it. But 
his request couldnt go ahead because of the suspension of one of the funds it invested in, 
and a partial surrender wasnt allowed within the policy terms. Mr C wasnt told this when he 
phoned about the surrender as Phoenix Life wasnt aware of it at the time. Mr C recalls 
phoning again a few days later when he was told his forms had been received, but Phoenix 
Life doesnt have a record of this call, so its not clear what Mr C was told. And this was the 
same day that Phoenix Life was informed of the fund suspension, so this information may 
not have been available for its advisers to give Mr C at the time of his call. Phoenix Life has offered to cancel Mr Cs policy from the date it was made paid-up  26 April 
2005. At that time the surrender value of his policy was £8,381. It said it would then add 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple, less basic rate tax. 
While I appreciate what Mr C has said about decisions that he may have made for this 
money if hed been aware of it earlier; it isnt possible to say with any certainty what he 
wouldve done. And its because of this that interest being added at an annual rate of 8% 
simple is appropriate as it reflects a range of opportunities that a consumer may have 
missed out on or financed differently, because they didnt have the access to the money in 
question. 
In Mr Cs particular circumstances, I feel this level of interest is appropriate recognition that 
he didnt have access to, or knowledge of, his money. 
I also understand that Phoenix Life sent Mr C a cheque for £200 for the trouble and upset he 
was caused, and for his call costs. And, taking everything into account, I think this is a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience he was caused. 
I say this because Phoenix Life has told us that it only recently began to send statements for 
paid-up policies, so its not the case that Mr C missed out on previous statements because 
of his address not being changed earlier. So I cant say that hes been specifically caused 
inconvenience by this. However, Phoenix Life has acknowledged that he was told the 
surrender would take 5-10 days, when he should have been told of a longer timescale 
because of the current pandemic.
 
Overall, I think that Phoenix Life has made a fair offer to resolve Mr Cs complaint. However, 
as I understand the suspension of the fund has been lifted, Mr C may wish to consider his 
options when he is aware of the current surrender value of his policy. It is for Mr C to decide 
how to proceed.
My final decision
My decision is that Phoenix Life Limited has made a fair offer to refund the value of Mr Cs 
policy at the date of 26 April 2005 when it was made paid-up and add interest on this amount 
at an annual rate of 8% simple. Should Mr C decide to accept this offer, Phoenix Life should 
recalculate this added interest from 26 April 2005, to the date of settlement.
 
If Phoenix Life considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
I also think that Phoenix Lifes offer of £200 compensation for inconvenience caused to Mr C 
is a fair one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman