DRN-2946705
The complaint
Mr L complains about his advice given on contracts for difference trading account with Logic 
Investment Ltd.
What happened
Mr L opened a contracts for difference (CFD) trading account with Logic in November 2015. 
He invested around £38,330 on 14 December 2015 and after trading for over a year, closed 
his account on 17 March 2017 and lost around £15,170. He complained to Logic via his 
representative on 28 May 2020 and I have summarised his key complaint points below:-
- Logic didnt do any checks to see if the leveraged trading was appropriate for him 
as he had no previous experience of this type of trading.
- They never warned him of the risks of CFD trading or explained this and even if 
they had, he was not capable of understanding them as it was his first time 
trading.
- He was not an individual with a high net worth, he was retired and was using his 
savings so was not able to bear the risk of this type of investment. 
- They gave him unsuitable advice to invest his savings in high risk CFD products 
which wasnt explained to him.
- They failed to explain to him that the commission being paid to Logic was taken 
on leveraged positions and how this would impact the margin.
- They failed to act in his best interests.
He says this caused him to suffer significant losses and to resolve his complaint, he would 
like his losses refunded with an additional 8% interest to be added. He has also asked for 
further compensation of £1,000 for the inconvenience he has suffered, and his 
representative fees paid. 
Logic issued a final response letter to Mr L on 21 July 2020 saying Mr L had previous trading 
experience and was well informed about the nature and risks of CFDs. They say an 
appropriateness assessment was done when his account was opened which he passed. In 
addition, they say they placed three positions on his behalf on his instructions and the other 
trades were placed by Mr L himself via the platform on an execution only basis. They say 
commission payments were made clear to him, so he was aware of this.
They rejected his complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the merits of the complaint and agreed with Logic. She 
considered whether the account was appropriate for Mr L and whether the risks of this type 
of trading had been explained. She didnt think Logic had done anything wrong and didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr L that I have 
considered everything and summarised the key issues below. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Appropriateness of account
As a regulated firm, the rules by which Logic must conduct their business are outlined in the 
Conduct of Business (COBS) rules of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. COBS 10.2 
outlines the requirements that Logic had to follow.
COBS 10.2.1 R 01/11/2007 
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client. 
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm: 
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded; 
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to those particular 
investment services or transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the 
client is classified as a professional client. 
COBS 10.2.2 R 01/11/2007 The information regarding a client's knowledge and 
experience in the investment field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of 
the client, the nature and extent of the service to be provided and the type of product 
or transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks involved, 
information on: 
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar; 
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out; 
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
Logic had to gather relevant information to establish whether their client has the necessary 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service and product 
offered  to decide if it was appropriate for them. So, Ive look at what information he 
provided Logic at account opening. Mr L successfully opened his account in 2015 and 
proceeded to trade for over a year. His Know Your Client (KYC) document was completed in 
December 2015 and provided Logic with the information they needed to establish his 
financial situation, his knowledge and understanding of investments and his investment 
objectives.
Mr L confirmed he was retired, single and with no dependants. He had a monthly income of 
£2000 with outgoings of £500 as he was mortgage free with his home being worth £150,000. 
He confirmed his savings were £50,000 in cash and £70,000 in derivative assets. He also 
confirmed he could afford to lose 70% of this without this impacting his lifestyle so that would be £84,000 of his total £120,000. Based on the information he provided here, it is clear he 
was financially able to bear the £15,000 losses he incurred. 
In terms of his investment experience, he specified that this was "extensive" despite other 
options of none, limited, good being available. Mr L already held another CFD account 
prior to the account with Logic and used this account to transfer funds from and had previous 
experience in this type of trading. He confirmed he was trading at least ten derivatives trades 
over a quarter with average trade size of £40,000. He is also specifically asked in the KYC 
document "Please explain your understanding of the risks and downside to leveraged 
(margin) trading:" Mr L responded with "Losses may exceed total funds deposited". 
Mr L does now raise that he didnt have the relevant knowledge to understand this type of 
trading but as mentioned above, the evidence Ive seen suggests otherwise and this is the 
information that Logic have relied on. COBS 10.2.4 confirms, Logic are within their rights to 
rely on the information that has been provided to them when the account was opened. With 
this in mind, I am satisfied he had the required knowledge and experience to trade in 
derivatives.
I also need to consider whether the risks of CFDs had been explained to him. Mr L 
confirmed he understood the risks associated with CFDs. In the KYC document, he confirms 
his investment objective was capital growth. It is clear he had an appetite for risk which is 
evident in the information Ive seen. In his KYC document, he says his high attitude to risk to 
achieve returns rather than limiting losses and his preferred product classes to invest in was 
CFD's under high risk. The fact that he also chose not to place a limit on the number of 
trades he would make a month also suggests that he was taking a higher risk approach.
I think Logic did enough to warn Mr L of the risks involved in CFD trading. The KYC 
document gives a clear risk warning at the start on page 1 and at the end of the document 
on page 8.
 Risk  Warning:  The value  of shares  can fall as well as rise; you may not 
necessarily  get back  the amount  you invested.
Past performance  is no guarantee  of future  performance.  Trading  in derivatives  
such  as Contracts  for Difference  or Foreign  Exchange  (FX) may not be suitable  
for all types  of investor  as they carry  a high degree  of risk. You may lose all of 
your initial  investment  and in some  cases  you may be liable  for a greater  sum 
than this. Extended  runs of losses  as well as profits  can occur.  Only  speculate  
with money  you can afford  to lose.  Changes  in exchange  rates  may also cause  
your investment  to go up or down  in value.  Tax laws are subject  to change  and 
depend  on individual  circumstances.  Please  ensure  that you fully understand  
the risks  involved.  If in any doubt,  please  seek  independent  financial  advice.
Warnings would also have been given at the account opening stage and the numerous 
trading risk notices would be clearly visible. In addition to this, he agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the account which do highlight the high risk nature of CFD trading. I am 
satisfied that he was aware of the risk involved with CFD trading and using leverage where 
he was at risk of losing more than his initial deposit amount.
Given that he would have been given the risk warnings, passed the appropriateness test at 
account opening and proceeded with the account suggests he understood the risks involved. 
With this in mind, it would be difficult for me to see why the account wouldnt be appropriate 
for him so I dont think Logic needed to do anything differently.
Did Logic give advice?Mr L says they have given him advice on some of the positions he complains of, so I must 
consider whether the advice was given and if so, was it suitable.
Logic say the account is an execution only account but Ive seen an email to Mr L which 
confirms the account was only transferred to a non-advisory account on 2 January 2018. 
Prior to this, it was an advice and execution account. 
Logic also say that of the thirty seven positions placed while trading with them, thirty four of 
these where placed via the trading platform by Mr L himself, and only three positions were 
placed by them and these were done on his instruction on an execution only basis. They 
also say that of the thirty seven positions, only twenty four were new positions, the 
remainder thirteen were increasing his holdings on the existing positions. Mr L has provided 
us some emails confirming instructions to trade, but I dont think these show Logic gave him 
any advice, just that they were carrying out the instructions theyve been given. Overall, I 
havent seen anything that I consider would fall within the scope of advice, as such I dont 
consider the suitability of trading to be relevant here.
Mr L said he wasnt aware of the level of commissions he was being charged and that a 
significant amount of his investment would be consumed by the commission paid. Logic 
have confirmed the total commission charged for all his trades was approximately £1,100. 
Logic have provided us with an email sent to Mr L in February 2016 with a rate card 
attached. This rate card informed him how much commission would be taken on each of the 
positions they executed. Mr L confirmed receipt of this email the same day, so I am satisfied 
that he was aware of the commission being paid.
I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, especially considering the losses hes 
suffered and impact this has had on him. I have considered all the information thats been 
provided to me and havent seen anything that shows Logic failed to act in the best interest 
of Mr L. I also havent seen anything that would suggest there has been a breach of the 
terms of the agreement or the COBS rules. It then follows that I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold Logic responsible for the losses he has incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Logic Investments Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman