DRN-4375866
The complaint
H complains Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business took a premium from its business 
bank account for a policy it didnt take out.
Mr S is the director of H and is bringing this complaint on its behalf, so for ease Ive 
addressed the decision to Mr S.
What happened
In summer 2023 Mr S said he was reviewing Hs company accounts and noticed a monthly 
direct debit was going to Simply Business. It turned out to be for a commercial buildings 
insurance policy which had been set up since 2021.
Mr S complained that H hadnt taken out this policy, he said he didnt recognise the email 
address that the policy documents had been sent to, and he hadnt set it up. Simply 
Business said whoever set the policy up did so in Hs name and used the bank details of that 
company to do so. It wouldnt agree to refund the insurance but advised Mr S that H could 
possibly get some funds back through Hs bank.
Unhappy with that response, Mr S brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think Simply Business had done anything wrong in setting the policy up, so said it 
didnt need to provide a refund to H. She said if Mr S could show that H had two insurance 
policies running at the same time, then he could provide evidence of that to both of his 
insurance companies, who should then provide a 50% refund on each policy. But she said 
as she hadnt seen evidence of another policy, she didnt think Simply businesses needed to 
do anything more. 
Mr S didnt accept that, he said Simply Business hadnt done enough checks to verify his 
identity and so it shouldnt have been able to set up a direct debit for the insurance 
premiums. He said someone might have fraudulently taken out the policy and received some 
financial benefit for it. He said he didnt have another insurance policy with Simply Business, 
so he couldnt claim 50% back as had been suggested. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S has been really concerned about this matter and is worried hes been the 
victim of fraud. It isnt the role of this service to investigate fraud, that would be a matter for 
the police. What I can consider is whether Simply Business has acted fairly in saying it wont 
refund the insurance premium paid by H. 
Having looked at everything, I dont think Simply Business needs to do anything differently. 
Mr H has said the email address used to set up the policy doesnt belong to him. I have seen 
no evidence to doubt what Mr H has said. But Simply Business doesnt need to provide 
evidence that Mr H himself took the policy out on behalf of H. There are no regulations Im 
aware of that say identity checks need to be carried out before an insurance policy can be 
set up for a business, even when a credit agreement is being used to pay for the insurance. 
The insurance was taken out for the benefit of Mr Ss business, H. It is Hs details that are on 
the insurance schedule. And to set up the direct debit, whoever set up the insurance had to 
provide Hs company bank details, which it did. Mr H has said perhaps a previous employee 
set up the policy and then benefitted from the policy premium, as it was done with a credit 
agreement. But the credit agreement taken out doesnt provide money to whoever took out 
the insurance, it is used to pay for the insurance in instalments. In any event, even if I accept 
what Mr S says, it doesnt show that there was any wrongdoing by Simply Business.
If Mr H can show he had another insurance policy running alongside the one set up by 
Simply Business, between 2021 and 2023, with a different insurance provider, and that this 
insurance provided the same cover for his business, then he would be eligible to make a 
claim for dual insurance. This is a standard industry practice where both of the insurers will 
refund 50% of the premiums paid. This is because in the event of a claim, Mr S business 
wouldnt have been able to claim for the same damage on two insurance policies, so each 
policy would only carry 50% of the risk. 
Mr S has provided documents to this service, included in which are letters from another 
insurance broker which refer to a different policy being set up. But he hasnt provided this 
service with any schedules of insurance which confirm he held another insurance policy 
elsewhere. So based on this Im not going to ask Simply Business to refund him 50% of the 
premium. If he does have this evidence, then he would need to provide it to Simply Business 
to review before this service could look at a further complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business to 
do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman