The complaint
Miss B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc won't refund three payments made 
from her account. She says she didn't authorise the payments. The payments concerned 
total just over £3,000. 
What happened
Miss B has explained that she was contacted in September 2019 through a social media 
channel by someone asking if they could use her bank account. She says that she agreed 
and provided her account details. She didn't, she says, provide any log-in details, such as 
passwords. 
Over the following few days four online payments were made from her account. Miss B 
contacted NatWest about a week later to report the transfers as fraudulent.  
NatWest looked into what had happened but didn't refund the payments. It said that each 
had been stopped while security checks were carried out. In each case, the bank spoke to 
Miss B by phone and, in the case of the final payment of £750, asked her to go to a branch 
with identification before the payment could be completed. Over three phone calls on two 
consecutive days Miss B said that she was responsible for the payments.
Miss B complained to this service and one of our investigators considered her complaint. He 
thought that NatWest had been entitled to treat the payments as authorised and didn't 
believe it should have stopped them. He didn't recommend that the bank refund them. Miss 
B didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons. 
Miss B says that, whilst she provided someone with her account details and agreed to let 
them use her account, she didn't provide any security information. If that's the case, 
however, it's not at all clear how anyone else could have accessed the account online, still 
less how they could have arranged transfers of more than £3,000. 
In my view, however, I don't need to reach any conclusions about how the transfers came 
about or whether Miss B did in fact provide security information to a third party. That's 
because the bank identified the payments as potentially fraudulent and contacted Miss B 
about them. In each case, Miss B confirmed that she had authorised the payment and 
NatWest acted on that confirmation. I've listened to recordings of each of the calls and am 
DRN-1992969satisfied that the bank was talking to Miss B on each occasion; indeed, she doesn't appear 
to dispute that.  
It may be that Miss B was somehow pressured into making or agreeing to the payments, but 
she hasn't provided much information about her contact with third parties at the time. In the 
circumstances, however, I don't believe it would be fair to make the bank refund the 
payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further 
steps to resolve Miss B's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman