DRN-3924924
The complaint
Mr U complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund him for a transaction he 
said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 24 November 2022, Mr U rang HSBC. He said he hadnt authorised a £150 debit card 
payment from his account on 22 November. Mr U told HSBC that he had had no previous 
dealing with the merchant, which Ill call M, to which the payment had been sent. He said no-
one else had access to his devices, he still had his card, and he hadnt shared his card 
details with anyone else.
HSBC investigated. On 5 December it wrote to Mr U, saying that it wouldnt reimburse him. It 
said the amount wasnt typical of a fraud, and I cant understand why your cards keep on 
getting compromised for the same merchant.  HSBC suggested Mr U should contact the 
merchant direct.
Mr U wrote back on 14 December. He said that he was appealing HSBCs decision, because 
his card was always with him, and he hadnt shared the information with anyone. He said he 
hadnt done the transaction with merchant M, and didnt have an account with merchant M. 
He said this meant that if a transaction was made that he didnt recognise, it should be 
HSBC which was responsible for it.
HSBC sent its final response letter on 16 December. It said that in the absence of any new 
information, it couldnt progress it further and again said Mr U should speak to the merchant.
Mr U wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said he wanted the £150 back, and also 
interest, because the debit had put his account into overdraft for which hed been charged.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. He explained that merchant M told a video 
game often played by children on devices such as smartphones and tables. The devices 
typically have a parents payment information stored, so that the child could use them to buy 
games and other purchases. 
The investigator said he was aware that Mr U had confirmed he hadnt had any previous 
dealing with merchant M. But Mr Ms HSBC statements showed three previous transactions 
to merchant M: 
- £10 on 24 August;
- £10 on 5 September; and 
- Another £30 also on 5 September.
So there had been previous payments to merchant M. The investigator thought HSBC was 
therefore correct when it refused to refund the £150 transaction on 22 November and told Mr 
M hed have to approach merchant M direct.
Mr U didnt agree. He said it wasnt his responsibility to pursue merchant M, and HSBC 
should be doing that. He said he hadnt made any purchases with merchant M before, and 
hadnt approved anything for his children.  The investigator explained that one reason HSBC 
directed Mr U to merchant M was that this wasnt an isolated incident but Mr U had raised 
other similar disputes before. Mr U said he didnt authorise the payment so it was HSBCs 
duty to retrieve his money. Mr U asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
HSBC) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
HSBC has provided evidence showing that the disputed payment was authenticated.
The regulations go on to say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised 
the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that 
account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  
for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be 
termed gross negligence.
Mr U has been very clear that his debit card was always with him, and he didnt disclose the 
details to any third party. This means its hard to see how any fraudster might have obtained 
his details in order to carry out the disputed transaction. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr U told both HSBC and this service that he hadnt had any 
transactions to merchant M before. But Mr U had made two undisputed transactions to 
merchant M on16 May 2022. He also had three disputed transactions to merchant M in 
August and September, for which HSBC refunded him, as Ive set out above, before it 
refused to give him a refund for this further disputed £150 payment also to merchant M.
Merchant M sells products which are often used by children for online games. Mr M says he 
didnt authorise payments to merchant M. But authorisation doesnt have to be by the 
account holder in person. Its possible for a customer to give someone else authority to carry 
out transactions on their behalf, so that they would be liable for them, even if they didnt 
physically make them themselves or give their explicit authority for them. That means that a 
bank can hold a customer liable for any transactions that happened because they gave 
someone authority to act on their behalf. 
As I cant see how Mr Ms card or security details were obtained by any external third party, 
Ive considered whether its likely that Mr M authorised someone else in his household to 
make payments to the online childrens games merchant. This can be either direct, or 
because he enabled someone else in his household to make the payments.
I realise that Mr M personally may not have necessarily wanted the particular payment in 
dispute here to be made  I note that its for £150, whereas the previous ones were for 
smaller amounts. But if authority is given that allows payments to be made, then itll usually 
be fair for a bank to hold a customer liable for them. Here, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr M initially authorised the details for payments for merchant M, or someone in his 
household obtained his card and security details and set up the authority to merchant M. It 
doesnt make any difference which of these it was, because either counts as Mr M having 
authorised the payment, or not having kept his card and security details secure. So HSBC 
doesnt have to refund him.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman