DRN-3258947
The complaint
Mrs O complains that MBNA Limited was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs O says that when she applied for a credit card with MBNA she was unemployed, and 
that adequate checks of her situation werent carried out. She says she explained that she 
had two young children and wasnt in receipt of benefits and that she had two other credit 
cards. She says that had adequate checks taken place she wouldnt have been given the 
credit card and wouldnt now have the default on her credit file.
MBNA issued a final response letter in May 2021. It said Mrs Os account was opened in 
February 2016 and her application stated she was employed and provided details of the 
other credit accounts she held. It said it took this information along with information from a 
credit check into account and as Mrs O met its lending criteria her application was approved. 
MBNA said that Mrs O contacted it in July 2017 to explain she was experiencing financial 
difficulties as she wasnt able to work and wasnt eligible for benefits. As Mrs O wasnt able 
to make any repayments it couldnt set up a repayment plan and waived charges to prevent 
the balance on her account increasing. It said the account defaulted in January 2018 after 
letters confirming the action to be taken had been sent. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that MBNA carried out appropriate 
checks when it considered Mrs Os application for a credit card. He noted the application 
said Mrs O was employed with an annual gross income of around £12,100. He also noted 
that the credit check didnt show signs of financial stress. He didnt think in this case MBNA 
had done anything wrong by providing Mrs O with the credit card.  
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that she was unemployed 
when she applied for the credit card and had two other credit cards. She said when she was 
employed she earned £12,000 a year and so was on a low income and unable to afford 
more credit. She said she made the minimum payments but was struggling financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O applied for a MBNA credit card in February 2016. At this time, she said she was 
working with an annual income of £12,100. MBNA carried out a credit check and this didnt 
show any defaults or county court judgements. I can see from the credit check results that 
Mrs O did have other outstanding debt in the form of an outstanding loan or hire purchase 
and other credit cards. But she was operating within her limits and based on the information 
provided, I do not think providing a card with a £800 credit limit was unreasonable.
Mrs O kept didnt exceed her credit limit over the following months and made the minimum 
repayments. A credit limit increase was offered in August 2016, increasing the limit to 
£1,300. While I accept Mrs O could have refused this increase, it was still up to MBNA to 
ensure the additional lending was affordable for Mrs O. I accept that Mrs Os account 
management from February to August 2016 didnt raise concerns and the credit check also 
didnt raise issues that I think meant further checks should have been carried out. So, I do 
not think I have enough to say that the increase in the credit limit to £1,300 was 
irresponsible.
Mrs O contacted MBNA in July 2017 to explain she was in financial difficulties. As Mrs O had 
explained her situation and that she had no income, a repayment couldnt be set up and I 
think MBNA acted reasonably at this time by placing a block on the account and waiving 
charges to ensure the outstanding balance didnt increase. It informed her that a default 
could be registered and that notice of this would be given. Mrs O was then sent a default 
notice before the default was registered. Based on this I do not find I can say MBNA did 
anything wrong by registering the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman