DRN-3097612
The complaint
Miss O (by the way of her representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses)
gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Os complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Os complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss O took three loans from Morses between August 2016 and January 2018. A summary
of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be found below:
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Term 
(weeks)Loan amount
1 11/08/2016 05/07/2017 33 £300.00
2 05/07/2017 19/01/2018 33 £300.00
3 19/01/2018 07/03/2019 33 £300.00
For each loan, Miss O was required to make payments of £15 per week.
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Os complaint about loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. But
the adjudicator did uphold the complaint about loan 3. He said the pattern of lending by loan
3 was harmful to Miss O so this loan ought not to have been provided.
It appears that Miss O agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Morses didnt agree, and in response it said;
three loans in 17 months is not excessive;
the amount Miss O borrowed stayed the same;
loan two was settled early and
the loan three looked affordable based on the information Miss O declared.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss O. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish
whether Miss O could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
Loans 1-2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Os complaint about these loans, and Miss Os doesnt
appear to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the
level of individual checks Morses completed before approving these loans, as I dont think
there is any ongoing disagreement about them.
Loan 3
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Os complaint about this loan because in their view, Miss O was
reliant on this lending in part because shed been indebted for around 17 months. But I dont
agree, and Ive explained why below.
Miss O had been indebted to Morses for 17 months, and in that time she had only taken twoprevious loans. I acknowledge that Miss O took longer to repay loan one than Morses was
expecting, but shed been able to repay loan two without any obvious problems. But I dont
think that on its own is enough for me to be able to conclude loan 3 was harmful for Miss O
solely based on the pattern of lending.
Especially, taking into account the number of previous loans and the amounts Miss O was
borrowing wasnt increasing. And when loan 3 was approved, this was for a fairly modest
amount, with payments of only around £15 per week, which wouldve looked affordable.
So, Im not persuaded that Miss Os lending had been harmful to her based solely on the
pattern of lending and / or the time in debt.
For these loans I understand that Morses wouldve asked Miss O about her income and
expenditure. For loan 3, the information Morses has provided shows Miss O declared her
weekly income was £272 with declared weekly outgoings of £112. So, based on this Morses
wouldve thought Miss O wouldve been in a position to afford her repayments of £15 per
week.
However, as Ive said, Miss O had been indebted to Morses for around 17 months, and she
was coming back for the same value loan on the same day that her previous loan had been
repaid. There was no decrease in the amount Miss O was borrowing. Miss O was also,
extending her indebtedness out for a further 33 weeks.
So, by loan 3, I think Morses needed to have a complete and accurate understanding of
Miss Os financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for
evidence of her income via a payslip and then asked for evidence of what bills she had.
Alternately, Morses couldve requested copies of Miss Os bank statements which wouldve
given it an accurate picture of her financial position and wouldve highlighted any financial
difficulties she may have been having.
Morses didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 3. But that isnt
the end of the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Morses shouldnt have given this
loan, I have to be satisfied that not only did Morses not carry out a proportionate check, but
by not carrying out a proportionate check has this caused Miss O a loss  that being the loan
ought not to have been approved because it wouldve found out that it was unaffordable.
Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information about 
Miss Os actual financial position at the time. In the absence of this information, I cant 
conclude Morses made an error when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands, Im 
proposing not to uphold this complaint. 
Both Miss O and Morses were asked to provide any further comment and evidence it wanted 
this Service to consider no later than 7 October 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decision, so I dont know what it thinks about the 
outcome. 
Miss Os representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and said that it 
would provide any further comments as soon as possible. To date, no further information has been received, and given the time to respond to the provisional decision has passed, I 
see no reason to delay the issuing of the final decision. 
As neither party has supplied this Service with any new comments or evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think 
Morses made an error when it approved loans 1 and 2. While it ought to have carried out 
more in-depth checks for loan 3, Im not able to conclude, based on the information I have to 
hand that further checks wouldve likely showed it that Miss O couldnt afford the repayments 
she was committed to making.
Im therefore not upholding Miss Os complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman