DRN-2783089
Complaint
Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help him when he was the victim of a 
scam.
Background
Mr P has an account with Barclays. In April 2020, he purchased access to software online. 
This was priced at £980 and paid via bank transfer. Unfortunately, it turned out he wasnt 
dealing with a legitimate software company but a scammer. He didnt receive any further 
contact from the company, nor did it provide him with access to any software. He realised 
that he must have been the victim of a scam and so he notified Barclays.
Barclays investigated his complaint. It said it wouldnt refund the transaction to him because 
Mr P had authorised the payment. It had attempted to recover the payment by contacting the 
fraudsters bank, but unfortunately the funds had been quickly moved out of the receiving 
account.
Mr P was unhappy with the response hed received from Barclays and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
Investigator said that Barclays couldnt have been expected to step in and question the 
payment with Mr P because it wouldnt have appeared to be unusual or out of character 
given how hed used his account up until that point.
Mr P was unhappy with the investigators opinion. He said that the payment shouldve 
triggered Barclays fraud prevention systems because it was an international payment. 
Because Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mr P authorised the scam payment. He was duped by the 
scammers into making that payment. I accept, therefore, that this was an authorised 
payment even though Mr P was the victim of a scam. He used his security credentials to 
request the transfer. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
With the benefit of hindsight, its now known that this payment was not being made to a 
legitimate business and that Mr P was a victim of a scam. The question I must consider is 
whether it shouldve been apparent to Barclays that there was an enhanced risk of this 
happening. It was required to carry out account monitoring to identify payments that might 
suggest such a risk. And there is a wide range of characteristics about a payment (or a 
pattern of payments) that might suggest the customer is at risk of fraud or financial harm. 
Unfortunately, I dont think this payment could be said to indicate that Mr P was at risk of 
fraud. I say that because I dont find it to be unusual or out of character. Ive looked at his 
statements from the months prior to the scam taking place and he did occasionally make 
payments larger than this one. During the four months prior to the scam taking place, he 
authorised a transfer of £900 and two transfers for more than £2,000. In view of that, I dont 
think Barclays wouldve had any reasonable basis for intervening to question the £900 
payment. 
Mr P has pointed out that this was an international payment and argued that it shouldve 
been looked at more closely for that reason. Ive considered that, but Im not persuaded that 
that fact alone wouldve been enough to justify intervention on the part of Barclays.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman