DRN-3996235
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service received from Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
trading as Hastings Direct (Hastings) following the cancellation of his car insurance policy.
Mr W is being represented by Miss W in his complaint against Hastings. 
What happened
Mr W took out car insurance through Hastings, who acted as broker. Following a missed 
payment, the insurer cancelled the policy and Hastings wrote to Mr W to say there was an 
outstanding balance of £287.23 to pay. At the time, Mr W was living with a medical condition 
which meant he couldnt deal with things, so Miss W made several calls to Hastings, but she 
raised a complaint as she felt Hastings didnt originally write off the debt despite her offering 
to send them mitigating circumstances for Mr W. She also complained about not being 
passed to the correct departments, delays in taking action, a call handler refusing to transfer 
her to the complaints team and a debt warning letter being sent to Mr W. 
Hastings responded and explained they did write off the debt, but this was around two 
months after they shouldve evaluated the evidence Miss W was offering to provide for       
Mr Ws mitigating circumstances. Hastings accepted they couldve therefore made a 
decision to write off the debt sooner. They also accepted theyd handled a call poorly and 
Miss W wasnt transferred to a complaint handler. They agreed there was a lack of empathy 
shown during a call and their Forbearance team also didnt manage Miss Ws expectations 
around what would happen after a 60-day hold ended on the account. Hastings upheld the 
complaint and as well as apologising they awarded compensation of £125.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. During our investigation, Hastings explained 
they took a number of actions once they were made aware of Mr Ws personal 
circumstances. They said they removed their £45 cancellation fee, removed three Direct 
Debit default fees and placed a hold on any recovery action for 60 days. They said, at the 
end of the 60-day period they sent a letter to Mr W to request the outstanding balance. They 
then agreed a further 60-day hold but, after receiving evidence from Miss W to support       
Mr Ws mitigating circumstances, they waived the outstanding amount owed. Hastings said 
the £125 compensation paid, when added to the amount waived, amounted to £412.23 
which they felt was fair. 
Our investigator agreed there had been errors by Hastings and, in addition to the £125 
already paid, they recommended a further £125 to bring the total compensation to £250.    
Mr W and Hastings disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr W. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Hastings have admitted they got things wrong while dealing with the 
remaining balance owed on the policy. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer 
to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Hastings should compensate Mr W for the shock, upset and worry 
caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Hastings and what the impact of that 
error has been. I will also add, while I can see this has been a very distressing time for    
Miss W - having to spend lengthy periods of time on the phone and being spoken to in a 
manner which lacks empathy, our service is only able to award compensation for the impact 
of Hastings service on Mr W.  
Theres no dispute Miss W wasnt spoken to in an empathetic and understanding manner 
during one of her early calls to Hastings to try and get this resolved. I think its fair to say this 
had an impact on Mr W as Miss W wasnt then able to give him any degree of reassurance 
that things were in hand and he didnt need to worry. Hastings did then take steps to help  
Mr W the same day when their Forbearance team agreed to place a 60-day hold on the 
policy. So, taking this into account, I think the £125 Hastings have paid in compensation is 
fair and reasonable. 
During the call with Hastings Forbearance team, the call handler explains they can place a 
hold on the policy for 60-days and that doesnt mean at the end of the 60 days that the 
amount is going to automatically become due, all we would ask is that you update us in 60 
days The call handler then places a 60-day hold on the policy and says, no more 
letters will come through, that will stop the letters as well The call handler then gives   
Miss W the number for their customer care team for her to call in 60 days. The call handler 
explains as long as you contact us on or before the 30th of May just to update us The 
call handler says, It doesnt mean, thats it now, Ive got to put a payment plan in place, just 
please update us. The call handler asks Miss W if shes aware of support groups and 
charities who might be able to help. The call handler explains shes going to update the 
system notes to say Miss W will call back within the 60 days to update Hastings. During this 
call Miss W does explain Mr W has a long-term illness and the call handler confirms theyll 
add this to their notes.  
As Hastings didnt hear back from Miss W by the end of the 60-day period, they sent a letter 
to Mr W. This letter says the debt needed to be paid and, if they dont hear back from Mr W, 
they may pass their file to a debt collection agency and report a default which would stay on 
Mr Ws credit file for six years. Ive noted Miss Ws comments about the impact this had on 
Mr W and Im sorry to hear about the additional distress this caused Mr W at a time when he 
was severely depressed. Having listened to the call with the Forbearance team and, taking 
into account what they knew about Mr Ws personal circumstances, I do think Hastings 
couldve been clearer with Miss W about what Mr W could expect at the end of the 60 days. 
Hastings dont, at any point, agree to discontinue chasing the outstanding amount and they 
do explain the next steps are for Miss W to contact them before the end of that period. So, I 
dont think it was necessarily unfair for them to restart their collections process as their terms 
and conditions and credit agreement allow them to take such action. That said, I dont think 
Mr W wouldve been expecting a letter discussing consequences such as referral to a debt 
collector or any impact on his credit file. The letter appears to be a template style letter 
Hastings send when chasing a debt, but Hastings were clearly aware of Mr Ws personal 
circumstances. So, while I dont think it was unreasonable for them to write to Mr W to explain there was still an amount owed and to find out if there was any update, I dont think it 
was reasonable in the circumstances for this letter to refer to potential consequences. This is 
particularly so, given that Hastings didnt fully explain what the consequences would be if 
they didnt hear back from Miss W by the end of the 60 days.       
Taking this into account, I think Hastings should compensate Mr W for the impact caused 
when reading this letter. Given Mr Ws medical condition, I understand why this had the 
effect of exacerbating his distress and worry. Miss W says she was, fortunately, with Mr W at 
the time he opened the letter and was able to pacify him. I can see Hastings did then, 
around a week later, ask for information from Miss W relating to Mr Ws medical condition 
and decided to waive the outstanding amount.  
I understand Miss W says the matter shouldve been dealt with right at the start when     
Miss W first started calling Hastings. And I acknowledge Miss Ws point that Hastings have 
admitted in their complaint response that they couldve reviewed any mitigating 
circumstances and written off the debt a couple of months earlier. Hastings have since 
written to our service and explained Miss W did offer to send in documents relating to Mr Ws 
medical condition. But because theyd agreed to place a hold on the policy  which was in 
line with their processes  it wasnt necessary for Miss W to send in any documents at this 
point. Hastings say this was because the amount which remained outstanding at that point 
was premium only and so they would at first allow a maximum of 60 days for a customer to 
be in a more favourable position and to then come back to Hastings to discuss the amount 
owed. Hastings say, in this case, when Miss W explained Mr W was still in a vulnerable 
position, they agreed to the documents being sent and waived the outstanding balance. I do 
acknowledge why Miss W feels this position shouldve been reached right at the outset when 
she first started calling. But I cant say Hastings have been unreasonable here in following 
their process to firstly allow a time period to see if the position improves. And that not being 
the case, I think theyve then taken reasonable steps in waiving the balance. 
Hastings say theyve already awarded £412.23 in compensation. I acknowledge the 
compensation already paid, when combined with the balance waived, does arrive at this 
figure. Hastings say the £287.23 was for time on cover that hasnt been paid. Hastings have 
decided to waive this amount based on the mitigating circumstances presented by Miss W  
and I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably. But I dont think its fair, in the circumstances, 
to treat this as compensation for the issue relating to the letter which was sent. 
So, Ive taken into account the impact on Mr W in Hastings not giving a clear explanation 
about what to expect after the hold ended and also sending a letter which set out 
consequences. Ive also factored in the time period over which this had an impact on Mr W. 
And I think Hastings should pay an additional £125 compensation to bring the total 
compensation paid to £250. 
I understand Mr W will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge the impact this event has had 
on Miss W. But as explained above, our service can only award compensation for the impact 
on Mr W. 
I wish to reassure Miss W Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Hastings have made an error in not explaining things clearly during 
their call and also sending a letter setting out consequences to Mr W. So, in addition to the £125 already paid to Mr W, they should pay an additional £125 for the shock, upset and 
worry  bringing the total paid for this complaint to £250. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading 
as Hastings Direct have already paid £125 compensation  so they must pay Mr W an 
additional £125 to bring the total amount of compensation paid to £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman