DRN-3930825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are complaining that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt covered all the losses 
theyve suffered arising from a storm and resulting flood after they made a claim on their 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs Ms property was damaged following storm Ciara. A 
neighbouring beck burst its banks which caused a flood. This meant a significant amount of 
water went into their house and also caused damage outside of their house particularly the 
external cladding, door, driveway and caused a wall to collapse. AXA arranged for the 
internal damage to be repaired and covered Mr and Mrs Ms contents claim. Mr and Mrs M 
havent raised any concerns about the way AXA handled this aspect of the claim. But theyre 
unhappy with AXAs handling of their claim for damage outside of their property.
AXAs representative arranged for an independent inspection of the damage. The engineer 
concluded the wall had collapsed due to wear and tear. He highlighted that many of the 
timber posts had suffered significant long-term rot at the base. AXA said the policy excluded 
loss or damage arising from a flood where the primary cause is gradual damage. So it said 
the policy didnt cover the cost of reinstating the wall.
AXA agreed to replace or repair the aspects of the cladding and doors that were damaged 
by the flood. But Mr and Mrs M wanted to have all the cladding replaced. AXA said that 
would mean carrying out work to areas that werent damaged in the storm, which it said 
wasnt covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair as they said it would 
result in a mismatch in the colour. They said that the door and 300mm above (the area AXA 
agreed to repair/replace) would be orange/brown, but the remaining feature would be its 
current ashen colour. And they didnt think that was fair. They also said that AXA wanted to 
jet wash the walls, but they said the paint was damaged. So they believe the entire outside 
wall needs repainting.
Mr and Mrs M also said that the flood had damaged their driveway as it had caused some of 
the paving flags to lift and crack. AXA agreed some of the flags on the driveway needed re-
pointing in places, but it thought they were generally stable and didnt think they were 
damaged by the flood. It also said there was evidence of historic repairs to the drive. So it 
didnt think there was anything to show that the storm or flood had damaged the driveway.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with AXAs decision and arranged for their own surveyor to 
inspect the property. The surveyor acknowledged that there was existing damage and 
evidence of wear and tear to the wall, but he said it was structurally sound and supported. 
So he concluded that the primary cause to the walls collapse is down to the beck bursting its 
banks and the sheer amount of water and debris that built up. 
AXA maintained that the wall was in a poor state of repair and needed replacing before the 
storm. So still didnt agree to pay to repair or replace the wall. Mr and Mrs M still thought 
AXA was being unfair, so they referred their complaint to this Service to review. They 
highlighted that they had sent a large number of emails to AXA to try to resolve this matter 
setting out why its decision was wrong. But they said it hadnt responded to the queries 
theyve raised.
The investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said he was more persuaded by the report 
commissioned by AXA. And he didnt think that it was unfair for AXA to say the damage to 
the wall was ultimately down to wear and tear, but the flood had simply highlighted existing 
issues. He also was satisfied AXA had agreed to replace the timber door and remove and 
repair the surrounding area up to the height of the damage, which he said was fair and in 
line with the policy terms. The investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs M had raised that AXA 
hadnt covered vermin access. But the investigator thought AXA had acted fairly as it had 
asked Mr and Mrs M for further evidence of the damage, but they hadnt provided it. So he 
didnt think AXA needed to cover this damage. Finally, he didnt think there was anything to 
show the storm or flood had caused damage to the patio and he thought it was fair for AXA 
to say it was pre-existing damage.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in a lot 
less detail than theyve presented it. Mr and Mrs M has raised a number of reasons about 
why theyre unhappy with the way AXA has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each 
and every point theyve raised, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points 
I need to think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. I assure Mr and Mrs M and AXA, however, that I have read 
and considered everything theyve provided.
Im aware that a lot has happened throughout this claims journey as it was a significant 
claim and a lot of damage occurred to both inside and outside Mr and Mrs Ms property. 
However, in this decision, Im only focussing on the areas in contention. It seems to me that 
these issues are:
Damage to the outside retaining wall
Damage to the patio/driveway
AXA wont replace the entire cladding section or repaint the outside wall
AXA hasnt repaired rodent damage
I shall consider each point separately.
Retaining wall
The wall in question is around 20m long and which retains the driveway, garden and decking 
on Mr and Mrs Ms property. After the beck burst its banks, part of the wall collapsed as a 
result of the high flow of water and debris. I understand the water level rose around 60-70cm 
above the decking level. Mr and Mrs M believe the wall collapsed because of the amount of 
debris that ended up on top of the wall as a result of the flood. However, AXA says the 
primary reason the wall failed is because of the fact it was in a poor condition beforehand.The terms of the insurance policy cover Mr and Mrs M for loss or damage arising from a 
flood.  However, the terms of the policy also set out that AXA wont cover loss or damage 
that happens gradually. As I said AXA believes the wall collapsed because of gradual 
damage to the wall supports.
In thinking about this, Ive asked myself three questions:
1. Was there a flood as defined under the terms of the insurance policy?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a flood typically causes?
3. Was the flood the main cause of the damage?
There is no dispute there was a flood at the time as the neighbouring beck burst its banks 
and water flowed across Mr and Mrs Ms property and I dont think the resulting damage is 
necessarily unusual for such an event. So Im satisfied the answer to questions (1) and (2) is 
yes. This also isnt in dispute. But the issue for me to consider is whether the flood was the 
main reason the wall collapsed. 
In this case there are two expert reports setting out their respective opinions on the primary 
cause of the wall collapsing. Crucially both experts agree that the wall showed evidence of 
decay and pre-existing damage. Mr and Mrs M think the core question is whether the wall 
would still be standing but for the flood, but I dont agree. I think the critical question I must 
ask is whether I think its most likely the wall would have collapsed even if the existing 
damage was present before the flood. And this is where I think the experts disagree. So I 
need to decide which of the reports I find most persuasive. 
The expert instructed by AXA  who I shall refer to as P  made the following conclusions:
The timber post retaining wall leaned outward by up to 100mm in 1200mm, however, if 
all of this movement had occurred as a consequence of the recent flood then there would 
be evidence of significant movement to the timber fence adjacent' wall, the decking at 
the front left corner of the extension, and a slump in the retained earth behind the wall.
Many of the timber posts had suffered significant long-term rot at the base. Some of the 
posts could be moved easily by hand and this revealed significant rot and deterioration to 
the rear, retaining side of the posts. This has then been exacerbated by the recent 
flooding causing the localised movement to the decking and further rotational movement, 
and possible failure, of the timber post retaining wall adjacent to the rear left corner of 
the extension.
Along the bottom of the wall, stone units had been placed up to a height of 550mm from 
the top of the retaining wall. Adjacent to the stonework wall the concrete base/foundation 
to the timber posts was exposed which had a projection of up to 300mm and measured 
approximately 300mm thick from the beck bed.
Across the rear boundary is a 700mm high, 450mm thick stonework wall which 
terminates at the boundary. Approximately 700mm from the left-hand end of the wall was 
a vertical crack up to 7mm wide which tapered towards ground level. The crack 
appeared weathered and old. Some of the coping stones were loose to the top of the 
wall.
It is evident that significant rotational movement, long-term rot and deterioration have 
generally occurred to the timber post retaining wall along its length which, in our opinion, 
is of an historic nature. The wall leans outward by up to 100mm.
So it was Ps conclusion that he thought the wall was likely to have shown signs of leaning 
before the flood occurred which he thought was a consequence of long-term deterioration of 
the timber posts. And its provided a number of photographs in support of its stance. He was ultimately of the opinion that long-term rot and deterioration had weakened the structure. 
And it said that the flood had exacerbated the damage. 
In contrast, the expert instructed by Mr and Mrs M  who I shall refer to as MPA  made the 
following conclusion:
Notwithstanding the obvious commencement of deterioration to the base of the stoops, 
the majority of the stoops between chainage 0-4 metres still have a reasonable fixity at 
the base and the lower concrete stonework construction.
Total collapse of the wall has occurred between chainage 4-6 metres induced by severe 
water pressures upstream of chainage 6 metres, where obvious constriction in the cross 
section width of the channel has occurred.
Given the head of water during the storm conditions (circa 2 metres above invert level 
approximately) and the severe constriction chainage 6 metres, the build up of pressure 
would be considerable resulting in the total collapse of the wall structure between 
chainage 4-6 metres.
The partial deterioration to some of the timber members of the beck wall has not had any 
significant effect on the overall scope of damage to the property and environs, although 
any reinstatement costs with regard to the original construction would be on a like for like 
basis.
So it was MPAs conclusion the deterioration of some of the timber posts didnt have a 
significant effect on the level of damage. And he thought it was the significant pressure of 
the water as a result of the amount of water flowing from the beck.
It's not for me to decide what ultimately was the cause of the failure. My role is to consider all 
the evidence available and to decide whether AXAs conclusion was fair. Ive considered 
everything, but ultimately Im more persuaded by Ps report. It ultimately cant be ignored 
that a number of the timber posts have suffered significant rot which have had a significant 
impact on their structural integrity. I acknowledge MPAs comments that the posts were still 
secured in place by chainage, but its accepted by both experts that theres clear evidence of 
long term deterioration due to rot to the base and throughout some of the posts.
Im also persuaded by what P has said that its likely the wall was leaning before the flood. I 
note Mr and Mrs M have disputed this and Ive considered the photographs theyve provided. 
But, P has said that, if this movement had occurred as a result of the flood, then there would 
be evidence of significant movement to the timber fence adjacent to the wall, the decking at 
the front left corner of the extension, and a slump in the retained earth behind the wall. Im 
persuaded by this. Given this, the photographs Ps also provided and his expert testimony, I 
cant say it was unreasonable for AXA to think the wall was already failing before the event.
I do not dispute that there was a significant of water and debris falling on the wall. But AXA is 
entitled under the terms of the policy to consider whether wear and tear to the wall was a 
major factor in the wall collapsing.  
Ultimately, AXA has arranged for an independent inspection, it has considered the report 
carried out by MPA and concluded that the flood has merely highlighted an existing fault. For 
the reasons Ive set out above, I cant say this was unfair. As I said, its clear that the wall 
was in a poor state of repair before the flood and I think this was ultimately the primary 
reason for it collapsing. As a result, I cant say it was unfair for AXA to say the damage to the 
wall wasnt covered under the terms of the insurance policy.Damage to the driveway/patio
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that AXA hasnt covered damage to the driveway and patio. AXA 
doesnt believe there was anything to show the driveway was damaged in the flood. P, in his 
report, set out that there was evidence of slight movement to the paved driveway with 
cracking and separation between the kerb and edge paving. But he also said there was 
evidence of previous pointing on the driveway. However, critically, he concluded as follows:
It is possible some slight movement has occurred to the front section of the wall to cause 
the cracking to the mortar joints in the paving and step, however, the paving has been 
previously repointed in localised areas, suggesting previous movement has occurred to the 
paved driveway. It is also possible that the slight movement has occurred as the subsoil may 
have been saturated or heaved due to the flooding followed by slight shrinkage as the 
subsoil returned to normal moisture levels. A further possibility is slight subsoil shrinkage 
due to moisture extraction through tree root action from the nearby tree adjacent to the
front wall.
Mr and Mrs M have set out that the previous pointing was around four metres from the 
problem area which they said was down to repeated parking of their car, which caused 
movement. They acknowledged they had this area repointed, but maintain that it has 
absolutely no relevance whatsoever with the claim. So they think its unfair that AXA has 
taken it into consideration.  
I note what Mr and Mrs M have said, but its ultimately for them to show that, on balance, the 
driveway was damaged by the flood. P has said it was a possibility that this could be related 
to the flood, but it could also be down to other factors. Ultimately, I dont think I have enough 
for me to say that it was unfair for AXA to say that there isnt anything to show that the flood 
has damaged the driveway.
Damage to the cladding/outside wall
AXA has set out that its only required to repair or replace anything that was damaged by the 
flood. And this isnt unfair as the policy only covers areas actually damage by the flood. I 
note Mr and Mrs M think that this is unfair as this was mean theres a mismatch in colour as 
part of the wall will have the weather ashen look, but the part that AXA replaces will be 
orange/brown when newly fitted until it ashens over time. 
I do understand their concerns in this regard. But this area wasnt damaged and, requiring 
AXA to replace the entirety of the cladding, would put Mr and Mrs M in a better position than 
they were in prior to the flood  a concept known as betterment. While I do naturally 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs M here, I cant say it was unfair for AXA to say its not required 
to replace the undamaged sections of the cladding.
Mr and Mrs M are also unhappy that AXA wont pay to repaint the wall, but will only jet wash 
it. Theyve said the flood damaged the paint, but I dont think theyve given anything to 
support this. So I cant reasonably require AXA to pay to repaint the wall. That said, if after 
the wall is jet washed, if becomes apparent there is damage to the paint, AXA would be 
contractually required to consider this. But, at this point, there isnt anything to show that the 
paintwork is damaged.
Vermin damage
After the flood occurred, Mr and Mrs M reported that rats had entered the property and were 
causing damage. AXA arranged for the rats to be exterminated. But Mr and Mrs M say there must be damage to the property allowing the rats to gain entry and they want AXA to locate 
and fix this damage. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers loss or damage arising from a number of specifical scenarios  
including accidental damage where the consumer chooses to take it out. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt take out accidental damage cover for their building. But, even if they did, like most 
buildings insurance policies, the terms of this policy specifically exclude loss or damage 
caused by infestation, chewing, scratching, tearing or fouling by insects or vermin. So they 
need to demonstrate that any damage to the property which was allowing the rats to gain 
entry was down to the flood.
I can see AXA has said that there isnt anything to show any evidence of flood related 
damage to the property which was enabling the rats to gain access to the house. And its 
asked Mr and Mrs M to evidence this. However, Mr and Mrs M have said that, to obtain this 
evidence, they would need the wooden walkway around the side of the property removed. 
They want AXA to pay for this. But, as I said above, its ultimately for Mr and Mrs M to 
demonstrate that any loss or damage is caused by an insured event. So it would be for 
Mr and Mrs M to demonstrate this and, if this requires the moving of the fence, then it would 
be at their expense. And this is what AXA has asked Mr and Mrs M to do. So I cant say that 
AXAs treated them unfairly in this regard. If, after removing the fence, it becomes apparent 
there was further flood related damage, then they could claim for the cost of removing the 
fence. But I cant reasonably say it was unfair for AXA to say it wasnt liable for this cost in 
the first instance.
Customer Service
Mr and Mrs M have already set out that theyre unhappy with the way AXA and its agents 
have handled the claim. Theyve set out that they have sent a number of emails to AXA to try 
to resolve this matter, which they say AXA hasnt responded to. Theyve said that the mental 
impact this whole claim and resulting issues has had on them is significant. Theyre also 
unhappy that theyve had to pay for two expert reports to get a fair outcome.
I recognise Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that AXA has treated them unfairly. And I have no 
doubt that this matter has had a significant and profound impact on them. But it was a major 
claim that required extensive work to their property, which was exasperated by the impact of 
Covid-19. And I naturally sympathise with the situation they found themselves in. I cant hold 
AXA responsible for the impact the claim has had on them  particularly for having to be in 
alternative accommodation for 16 months  as this is ultimately an unfortunate consequence 
of the claim and the difficult time the world was in at this point.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the way AXA and its agents communicated 
with them. But I think this is because they strongly disagree with what AXA is saying to them 
in regard to the external damage to the property. Ive not seen anything to show that AXA or 
its agents have ignored or failed to respond to a number of the emails Mr and Mrs M have 
sent. I realise that they dont agree with what AXA has said in response. But for all the 
reasons Ive set out above, I cant reasonably say that its acted unfairly taking into account 
the terms and conditions of the insurance policy and whats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Guy MitchellOmbudsman