DRN-3903453
The complaint
Miss B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss B was provided with a Tesco Bank credit card in October 2018. The initial credit limit 
was £2,600 and this limit hasnt changed. Miss B says that at the time the account was 
provided she had a poor credit history and score. She says she is struggling to make the 
repayments.
Tesco Bank received Miss Bs application in October 2018. It said before providing the card 
it checked the information Miss B had provided in her application against other data sources 
and carried out a credit check. It said its checks didnt show any affordability issues and 
Miss Bs application met its lending criteria.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that further verification of the information 
provided at application should have happened and that if this had taken place, Tesco Bank 
would have found that Miss B had three existing credit cards which when adding the Tesco 
Bank credit card gave her access to £4,900 of revolving credit. Taking the costs of 
repayments on this into account alongside Miss Bs other costs meant that Miss B would 
have less than £50 disposable income a month after repayments.
Tesco Bank reiterated that it carried out a credit check and that this didnt raise concerns. It 
said had concerns been raised then further checks would have taken place, but they werent 
necessary in this case. It said that while it was now aware of another loan this information 
wasnt available to it at the time of its checks. It further noted it that had the additional loan 
repayments of £147 been included in its assessment this would still have left Miss B with 
disposable income of around £287. It said that even taking our investigators calculations 
Miss B would still have disposable income after the repayments to the credit card and so it 
didnt accept it was unaffordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing the credit card account, Tesco Bank gathered information about 
Miss Bs income, mortgage/rent payments and used an estimated amount for her 
expenses. It also carried out a credit check. The credit check results showed that 
Miss B didnt have any outstanding county court judgments or insolvency records. 
She did have a default recorded with a value of £400 but this was historic (recorded 
26 months prior to the credit check). Miss Bs credit check results showed she had 
£1,782 of revolving debt and that she was utilising 71% of her existing credit lines. 
Having considered the information gained through the credit check, I didnt find that 
this raised concerns that Miss B was struggling financially or that it meant further 
checks needed to take place. 
I noted the comment about a further loan being identified that wasnt recorded in the 
credit check but in this case, based on the information received I thought it was 
reasonable for Tesco Bank to rely on its credit check results.
Miss Bs application included information about her employment and annual income 
as well as her living status (living with partner) and that she was a private tenant. Her 
monthly income was calculated as £1,100 and her rent noted as £290. As the credit 
check didnt raise concerns and the information gathered didnt appear 
unreasonable, I thought the checks were proportionate and it was reasonable that 
Tesco Bank relied on the results of these.
However, just because I found the checks were proportionate that didnt necessarily 
mean I thought the lending should have been provided. I therefore assessed what 
the information showed to see if it was reasonable that Tesco Bank considered the 
lending affordable.
Miss Bs monthly income was £1,100, the rent figure used was £330 and a further 
£330 was included for other living costs. Miss B was recorded as living with a partner 
and I do not find these amounts unreasonable. This left around £440 for Miss B to 
cover her credit commitments as well as any other costs. Based on the information in 
the Tesco Bank credit results, Miss B had £1,782 of revolving credit with utilisation 
rate of 71%. Our investigator noted that sustainable costs of the fully utilised credit 
and the Tesco Bank credit card would able around £245, and I thought this was a 
reasonable amount to use. Deducting this from Miss Bs income net of her rent and 
living costs gave disposable income of around £195. I noted that while this wasnt a 
large amount to cover unexpected costs, I didnt find that I could say that Tesco Bank 
should have considered the lending unaffordable.
Based on my provisional conclusions I didnt uphold this complaint. 
I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, Tesco Bank needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out by Tesco Bank before 
providing the credit card to Miss B were proportionate. I think it was reasonable that Tesco 
Bank relied on the information it received through its checks and as these didnt suggest the 
lending was unaffordable, I do not find I can say Tesco Bank was wrong to provide the credit 
card account to Miss B.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed, and I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman