DRN-1894954
The complaint
Mr W has complained about advice he received from Quay Wealth Management Limited to 
transfer a personal pension into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice 
was unsuitable.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In October 2015 an adviser from Quay Wealth met with Mr W at his home. A fact-find was 
completed. This recorded, amongst other things, that Mr W was 55 years old, he owned his 
own home with no mortgage, he had an income of £6,000 and savings of £14,000.
It was also noted that he held a personal pension worth around £64,000 but he couldnt 
access this pension or take drawdown from it.
A recorded objective was that Mr W wished to supplement his income from 57 years of age.
On 28 October 2015 a suitability letter was sent to Mr W which recommended that he 
transfer the personal pension into a SIPP. He was told that the arrangement would be 
potentially more expensive, by 0.89 per cent per year, but it would provide greater flexibility. 
He was also advised to use a specific investment manager to invest the funds once the 
transfer had taken place. 
The transfer was completed with just over £61,000 being transferred into the SIPP in or 
around December 2015.
In February 2016, before the transferred funds were invested, Quay Wealth wrote to Mr W 
with a change of advice. It recommended a different investment manager and explained 
why. Despite reminders in March, May and July 2016 Mr W didnt respond, his funds werent 
invested and remained in cash. Mr W engaged new advisers in August 2016 and his client 
relationship with Quay Wealth ended on 14 August 2016. At that point his pension funds had 
not been invested.
It seems that on advice from the new advisers Mr W decided to invest with the investment 
managers Quay Wealth had initially recommended, before it changed its advice. I 
understand that this business has since collapsed, and Mr W has suffered significant losses 
as a result.
Mr W complained to Quay Wealth about its advice in 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint. It 
explained that its advice to start the SIPP wasnt unsuitable and Mr Ws losses arose 
following advice from another adviser. However, it did offer to refund its charges for the 
advice along with a proportion of the SIPP charges. This amounted to £2,300.98.
Mr W didnt accept, and the complaint was referred to this service. It was considered by an 
investigator, but he decided not to uphold the complaint. He said, in summary:
Mr W had legitimate reason to transfer his pension and so be able to access the 
pension funds earlier and supplement his income.
The personal pension didnt offer drawdown. The advice recorded that Mr W insisted 
that any new plan must have this facility.
Mr W didnt respond to the request for instructions to invest after the transfer.
It wasnt clear how the CMC had calculated Mr Ws alleged losses. He had received 
the transfer value after deduction of fees.
Quay Wealth couldnt be responsible for the loss suffered after Mr W terminated the 
relationship and took advice elsewhere.
The CMC didnt agree. It said, in summary:
Mr W has already made a claim to his new advisers.
The advice to transfer was mis-advice.
Mr W was promised extraordinary returns with the investment manager Quay Wealth 
initially recommended, and so when a new strategy was proposed, he was unsure 
what to do. He chose to listen to those who hed had closer contact with.
If Mr W took £12,000 per year from his pension, which was the income shortfall, it 
would only last five years.
Mr W hasnt taken an income to date.
Mr W had a low capacity for loss.
The investigator considered these responses but didnt change his view. He said:
The transfer itself wasnt unsuitable.
He couldnt hold Quay Wealth responsible for the relationship Mr W had formed with 
a third party and his taking an investment strategy it hadnt recommended.
If he had a low capacity for loss, this would strengthen Quay Wealths arguments as 
it had recommended a more mainstream strategy than the one Mr W actually chose.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Im sorry Mr W has lost out, but I dont think his claim for loss rests with Quay Wealth. I see 
that he has pursued, or is pursuing, a complaint against the advisers who actually gave him 
the advice he chose to follow. That does seem to be the appropriate course.
Quay Wealth cannot be responsible for losses associated with the collapse of the investment 
manager. Mr W wasnt relying on advice from Quay Wealth when he chose that investment 
manager, Quay Wealth had already changed its advice and recommended an alternative. Mr 
W appears to have chosen not to rely on that advice and relied on advice from his new 
advisers instead.
It seems that although Mr W formally disengaged with Quay Wealth in August 2016 he had, 
in effect, disengaged from February 2016. He didnt give any instructions from that point and 
so its not easy to see how Quay Wealth can be held responsible for any fund losses caused by inactivity and a lack of investment from that point onwards. It couldnt invest without 
instructions.
I dont think the advice to transfer was obviously unsuitable. The new arrangement was 
slightly more expensive, but it did provide flexibility and potential drawdown options which 
seem to have been important to Mr W. But in any event, the losses Mr W has suffered arise 
primarily out of the investment choices made rather than the transfer itself. And, as Ive said, 
Quay Wealth are not responsible for the investment choice Mr W made.
The CMC says that the pension would have been exhausted in five years if income had 
been taken to cover the shortfall. But I dont think that was ever the recommended course. 
And the CMC doesnt appear to have regard to the other pension income Mr W would have 
been able to rely upon in the future, such as his Ministry of Defence pension.
The CMC says that Mr W had a low capacity for loss. I dont disagree, but I dont think Quay 
Wealth recommended a high-risk strategy, but whatever it recommended, Mr Ws losses 
dont flow from that recommendation. The losses flow from the collapse of the investment 
managers he did choose but these werent recommended by Quay Wealth.
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think the advice to transfer was unsuitable when 
considered in isolation, but even if it was, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint as Mr Ws losses arise from choices he made after he disengaged with 
Quay Wealth and relied on advice from others.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman