DRN-2383297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that they got poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr and Mrs N wanted to add their daughter to their Barclays travel insurance in January 
2020. They had an appointment at the branch but had to change this. There wasnt a 
convenient alternative on the day. The appointment took place. They were told they couldnt 
add their 23-year old daughter to the policy.
Mr and Mrs N complained it was difficult to make a new appointment easily. And when they 
made the appointment on the telephone, they were told they could add their daughter to the 
policy  but at the meeting at the branch, they were told that couldnt be done. They said it 
was suggested this was because their daughter wasnt responsible as she lacked mental 
capacity. This was very distressing, particularly as they were due to travel two days later. 
And theyd had to travel to a branch, which proved a waste of time. They wanted 
compensation of £200. 
Barclays apologised for the delay in organising the appointment. On the issue of the travel 
insurance, Barclays said the branch representative was professional and didnt suggest that 
Mr and Mrs Ns daughter was excluded because of her mental capacity  but the reason was 
that the policy had a maximum of two persons  therefore Mr and Mrs Ns daughter needed 
to have her own. They offered compensation of £45.
Mr and Mrs N brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Barclays had 
made some errors when arranging the appointment  the video call had dropped out and 
they were slow in getting a new time slot for Mr and Mrs N. On the travel insurance, he could 
see that Barclays had spoken to the branch staff involved and was satisfied there wasnt a 
suggestion that Mr and Mrs Ns daughter was excluded on the grounds of mental capacity. 
She said that often, decisions about eligibility could only be taken at the branch. Overall, he 
felt that Barclays had dealt with Mr and Mrs Ns complaint reasonably - and their offer of 
compensation of £45 was OK.
M and Mrs N asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs N. They needed to rearrange 
the appointment at the branch, but it was difficult to get this done. They said they explained 
about their daughters situation on the phone  when making the appointment  and were 
told that she could be added to their travel policy. But then the branch said she couldnt. 
They felt the branch said this was because of her mental capacity. And all of this was more 
stressful as they were traveling to India in two days time  so they need to get things sorted 
out.
About the delays in getting an alternative appointment  Barclays have apologised. And Mr 
and Mrs N have told us that this wasnt the main issue  which was that they were told on 
the phone that their daughter could be added to the policy, but the branch said she couldnt. 
Ive looked at Barclays travel pack policy. This does state Cover is for any named account 
holder and their domestic partner living at the same address (providing you are both
under 80 years of age at the start date of your trip). Your children are covered when 
travelling with you if they are under 18 years of age (or under 23 if in full time education
and living with you outside of term time).
Mr and Mrs Ns daughter was 23 at the time. So, she wasnt eligible to go onto the policy. 
Ive seen Barclays testimony  provided by the staff member who met with Mr and Mrs N. 
She said Mr and Mrs N were angry because theyd been told on the phone that their 
daughter was eligible. But she advised them she wasnt  due to her age. It wasnt because 
of any concerns about her mental capacity. Im satisfied that the meeting appears to have 
been conducted satisfactorily.
Weve asked Mr and Mrs N for the date(s) of their call to Barclays so we could listen to what 
was said  but they havent replied to us with this information. Unfortunately, without this 
evidence, we cant say what was said to them by Barclays.
So, while I can see that what happened must have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr 
and Mrs N, I think that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with their complaint, 
and the compensation theyve offered of £45 is right. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore.
If Mr and Mrs N want to accept Barclays offer of compensation, they should get in touch with 
Barclays to arrange payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman