DRN-3011355
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr B applied for a credit card with Aqua in March 2015 and it was agreed with a limit of
£250. Increases were then made as follows:
Date Limit
March 2015 (new card) £250
July 2015 £650
November 2015 £850
July 2019 £1,600
In March 2018, Aqua increased the interest rate on the card. In March 2020, the debt was 
passed to a debt collection agency with the balance £1,583.58 debit. Payments were being 
made at £50 per month.
Mr B complained that the limit increases were wrong. Aqua couldnt have done the 
necessary checks  as he had a negative credit report. He had other large loans. And  
Aqua increased the interest rate on his card, so the interest was very high. He also gambled. 
He said Aqua should remove the adverse information from his credit file and agree to freeze 
interest on the debt.
Aqua said Mr B had passed their checks when he applied for the card. He said he had an 
annual income of £28,000, plus other household income of £14,850. He said he had other 
unsecured debts of £400. There were no arrears or defaults showing on his credit file. So, 
Aqua were correct in issuing the card with a limit of £250. The subsequent increases in limits 
were offered to Mr B on an opt-out basis  he couldve told Aqua that he didnt want to 
borrow more money, but he didnt. Aqua agreed that the final increase to £1,600  in July 
2019  shouldnt have taken place in view of the other debts then showing in Mr Bs records. 
They could see hed gone onto a payment plan with another lender and had missed 
payments to them. So, they refunded interest of £169.47 and fees of £81.06 to his card 
account. They calculated this to be the interest on the debt over £850 (the previous limit).. 
They didnt agree to remove any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file. The increase in 
interest rate was a commercial decision they made in the light of Mr Bs usage of the 
account. Theyd written to him in advance of this in December 2017 and gave him the option 
of closing his account. As they didnt hear from Mr B, the increase took place in March 2018.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered that the issue of the card in 
the first place was OK. But the subsequent increases in limit were not. He didnt think Aqua 
had done the necessary checks in line with their obligations under the FCA guidelines. Mr 
Bs limits had increased by 540% in four years  and this wasnt reasonable, given his other 
credit commitments. He said that Aqua should pay Mr B compensation of £200 for distress 
and inconvenience. This was in addition to the refund of interest already made.
Aqua didnt agree and asked that Mr Bs complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I disagree with our investigator here. I think the limit increases were OK up to the last 
increase to £1,600 in July 2019  which Aqua have already said was wrong. I will explain 
why. And my proposed actions to out things right are a little different.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Aqua 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
So  I need to make a decision based on this guidance.
When Mr B applied for a new card in March 2015, he said he had annual income of £28,000, 
plus other household income of £14,850. He said he had other unsecured debts of £400. I 
can see there were no arrears or defaults showing on his credit file. So, Aqua were correct in 
issuing the card with a limit of £250. This was a modest limit in comparison with his 
circumstances and income.
Looking at the increase in limits to £650 in July 2015 and to £850 in November 2015. I can 
see from Aquas credit information that Mr B had made the monthly payments when due, 
and there had been no late fees of over limit fees (which would both have suggested there 
were problems). There had been three cash withdrawals - which might have indicated some 
issues that Aqua might have looked at. But equally, there were no other debts showing from 
other lenders, including payday lenders. Also  I can see that Mr B had the option to tell 
Aqua he didnt want to take the increases, but didnt. So  I think Aqua were OK to increase 
the limit to £850 by November 2015.Looking at the increase to £1,600 in July 2019  I agree that Aqua were wrong to do this. By 
then I can see that Mr B had other credit and debts of over £12,000. These had gone up 
from £3,657 in March 2016  so Mr B was borrowing a lot more money from that time. There 
were frequent cash withdrawals, over limit fees and late payments. To be fair to Aqua 
theyve admitted they were wrong to increase the limit to £1,600 and have refunded interest 
of £169.47 and fees of £81.06  which theyve calculated was the interest on the debt over 
£850. Theyve declined to remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file  which I 
dont think is fair, and I think they should do that.
Mr B has said that he was using his card to pay for gambling. Our service takes the view that 
its up to customers to decide how to spend their money  rather than making a judgement 
on it. So  we cant necessarily expect Aqua to have taken action solely because of that.
Mr B has said that the increase in interest rate on his account wasnt fair. I have to say that 
pricing of debts is a commercial decision and we cant get involved with that. I can see 
though that Mr B was advised in advance of it taking place and couldve opted to close his 
account  by freezing the debt  but he didnt contact Aqua to do this.
I can see that Mr Bs debt is now with a debt collection agency and he is paying £50 a 
month. I assume that this is already at a zero-interest rate  but ask Aqua to confirm this in 
their response to this provisional decision.
My provisional decision is that the final increase in limit to £1,600 wasnt fair, but the earlier 
increases were. Aqua have already refunded interest and charges  but they should also 
remove any adverse data from Mr Bs credit file from the time of the July 2019 increase and 
thereafter. And  because of the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr B, they should 
pay compensation of £200.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr B agreed, but Aqua didnt. They said:
They didnt agree that compensation of £200 should be paid, as Mr B had already 
had a refund of interest and fees 
They didnt agree that the entries at credit reference agencies should be removed as 
they had a duty to report accurate information. Especially as Mr B didnt contact them 
until May 2020 about his financial difficulties.
Aqua confirmed no interest is currently being applied to the debt as it had been 
passed to a debt collection agency.
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered what Aqua have said. On the matter of compensation, I still think its 
warranted  Mr B did suffer distress  as his debt was passed to a debt collection agency, 
and there were negative markers put on his credit file. Both of these things may not have 
happened if the limit hadnt been increased to £1600 in July 2019. On the credit file entries  
again, these may well not have happened if the limit increase hadnt taken place. Our aim is 
to place Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in had the increase not taken place. So, I consider that the entries must be removed.
Putting things right
Having considered what Aqua have said, my decision is that the remedies outlined in the 
provisional decision should remain.  I note that Aqua have confirmed that the remaining debt 
with the debt collection agency is at zero interest.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
 Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file  since July 2019.
Pay him compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience  this to be paid in 
reduction of the debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman