DRN-3746479
The complaint
Miss D complains about problems with John Lewis Financial Services Limited after her credit 
card wasnt included in an Involuntary Arrangement (IVA). 
What happened
Miss D had a credit card with John Lewis and in late 2019 advised it she was entering into 
an IVA. Due to issues with the way the IVA was set up, John Lewis credit card wasnt 
included so Miss D continued to received contact from its collections team. And John Lewis 
continued to record arrears information on Miss Ds credit file. 
During 2020 John Lewis placed the collections activity on hold after Miss D advised she was 
in an IVA. John Lewis agreed to refer the matter to its IVA team but didnt resolve the 
situation. And that meant Miss D continued to receive collections contact. 
In July 2021 Miss D complained to John Lewis but despite various parties making contact 
about her IVA, the debt wasnt included. There were delays at John Lewis and it came to 
light arrears continued to be recorded on Miss Ds credit file. 
Miss D complained again in November 2021 and John Lewis upheld it. John Lewis offered 
Miss D £300 and agreed to amend her credit file. But Miss D didnt accept and said the 
amount offered was unfair given the circumstances of her complaint. 
Miss D referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. John 
Lewis increased its offer to resolve Miss Ds complaint to £500 and confirmed that whilst the 
debt was never included in her IVA, it would no longer ask for payment. John Lewis agreed 
to remove the adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file and mark the account as 
settled. But Miss D has sent in copies of her credit file that show the account remained open 
and arrears were sporadically reported by John Lewis. 
The investigator upheld Miss Ds complaint and asked John Lewis to pay her a total of £575 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. John Lewis has advised theres no permanent 
systems fix in place to ensure Miss Ds credit file remains unaffected by arrears information 
but says manual adjustments can be made each month. Our investigator didnt agree this 
was a fair approach and said John Lewis should delete the entry entirely in place of the 
temporary fix and making manual adjustments each month. John Lewis said it would pay the 
increased compensation but didnt agree to remove the entry from Miss Ds credit file 
entirely.
As John Lewis didnt accept the investigators view, Miss Ds complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonable brief in setting out the timeline above as all parties broadly agree about 
the key events. Its clear John Lewis credit card debt wasnt included in Miss Ds IVA. But 
Im satisfied it couldve taken quicker action to before the IVA concluded. And Im pleased 
John Lewis has accepted the account is now considered closed and confirmed it wont 
chase Miss D for the balance. 
John Lewis has agreed to pay Miss D £575 for delays and the service provided. Ive 
considered everything Miss Ds told us about how the issues impacted her and the 
difficulties caused. I dont doubt that the level of contact regarding a debt that ought to have 
been included in the IVA was distressing. And I agree that various errors in terms of the 
information reported by John Lewis on Miss Ds credit file has added to that. In my view, 
£575 fairly reflects how the issues raise have affected Miss D. So Im going to proceed on 
that basis and award Miss D £575 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
John Lewis says it has a temporary fix in place that means it will update Miss Ds credit file 
manually each month. Our investigator thought the arrangement was unsustainable. And I 
agree that leaving a temporary fix in place that relies on manual intervention each month 
isnt an fair or reasonable way to draw a line under Miss Ds complaint. Given weve already 
seen instances where arrears were recorded on Miss Ds credit file in error, Im not 
persuaded its fair to leave the current situation in place in the long term. 
Our investigator asked John Lewis to respond with a permanent fix over the course of 
several months. More recently, after we told John Lewis Miss Ds complaint had been 
referred for decision, the case handler asked for more time to respond. But Im satisfied John 
Lewis has already had several months to investigate the issue with a view to resolving it. In 
place of a reasonable alternative, Im satisfied the fairest approach is for John Lewis to 
delete the entry from Miss Ds credit file entirely. So Im going to tell John Lewis to amend 
Miss Ds credit file to remove its entry entirely.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited to pay her £575. I also direct the business to remove its entry from Miss Ds credit 
file entirely.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman