DRN-3600178
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold critical illness cover by Bank of Scotland plc in 
2014.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
In summary Mr M, by his attorney and representative, says the policy was mis-sold to him. 
Our investigator didnt find that Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. The facts are not 
in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M received financial advice from Bank of Scotland so Ive looked carefully at the 
advice he was given to see if he was recommended a suitable product. His personal 
details were noted in the fact find  so the adviser was aware that he was single and 
didnt have any dependants. He didnt require mortgage protection but wanted to 
ensure that capital was available as a cushion if he were to be diagnosed with a 
critical illness prior to retirement. The policy he was sold did give him the protection 
he was looking for.
The fact find notes Mr Ms disposable income  so the adviser checked that the 
policy he was recommending was affordable for Mr M and in line with his budget. 
Mr Ms complaint, via his representative, is that he wouldnt have understood what he 
was purchasing due to his vulnerability. I havent seen any evidence to support this 
contention, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was brought to Bank of Scotlands 
attention at the time of sale. So I cant say that it is something that should have been 
taken into account at the time.
It is not in dispute that Mr M had several investments which had been put in place in 
2007. From the evidence provided by Bank of Scotland its clear that Mr M continued 
to make investment decisions after the advice the take out the critical illness policy. 
So like the investigator Im satisfied from the evidence that he was able to 
understand his finances at the time of sale.
I can see that in 2021 a representative was added to Mr Ms account. But this doesnt 
indicate to me that the policy was unsuitable or mis-sold in 2014. 
Bank of Scotland was on risk from the start of the policy  had Mr M made a valid 
claim the benefit would have been paid. It follows that I dont find the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr M or mis-sold to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman