DRN-3740875
The complaint
Miss C complains on behalf of the estate of her late mother, Mrs C, that Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited (Aviva) should not have continued to charge interest on the lifetime 
mortgage taken out by Mrs C after she had passed away in May 2021.
What happened
Miss C says that the amount of cash released by the lifetime mortgage when it was taken 
out by Mr and Mrs C in 2003 was just over £33,000 but the total redemption amount in July 
2022 was over £126,000. Whilst she understands that interest needs to be paid, she says 
that there should be a cap on this and that it is wrong for interest to be charged on a lifetime 
mortgage after both of the borrowers have passed away. Miss C would therefore like the 
interest to be stopped as of May 2021, when Mrs C passed away (Mr C having already 
passed away prior to this).  
Aviva says that several documents were provided to Mr and Mrs C prior to their acceptance 
of the lifetime mortgage. This included the loan agreement which set out that interest would 
be payable until the completion date, so the interest continuing to accrue after Mr and Mrs C 
passed away is in line with the terms they agreed to. An illustration was also provided which 
included a projection of how much interest would accrue over different periods of time. As it 
is not possible to predict when a lifetime mortgage will end, the illustration noted that the 
loan term may be different from the examples and that the figures shown were not minimum 
and maximum amounts. The total amount of interest therefore isnt capped but there is a no 
negative equity guarantee to ensure beneficiaries will not be left with a debt from the sale of 
the property. 
Our investigator looked at Miss Cs complaint and concluded that Aviva hadnt acted 
incorrectly in continuing to charge interest after Mrs C died, so didnt recommend that Aviva 
refund any of the interest paid upon redemption of the mortgage.
Miss C disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage illustration prepared for Mr and Mrs C in 2003 when the 
mortgage was taken out. The illustration sets out the interest rate and examples of what 
would be owed depending on the time until repayment. There is also a section titled What 
happens to your loan when youve both died or need long term care? Underneath this, it 
states You, or your estate, must repay the loan of £33,800 with interest. Your home may 
need to be sold to do this. Well continue to add interest to your loan until its repaid. 
Ive also looked at the loan agreement provided to Mr and Mrs C when the mortgage was 
taken out. Section 4.4 states We will calculate interest from day to day throughout the loan 
term. In the agreement, loan term is defined as the period between the completion date 
and the repayment date and repayment date is defined as the date you repay the total 
loan. I can see that this agreement has been signed by Mr and Mrs C. 
Whilst I understand that Miss C feels that a lifetime mortgage should only charge interest 
over the lifetime of the borrower(s), it is usual for interest to be charged on a mortgage until it 
is redeemed as the amount borrowed hasnt been repaid until that point.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs lifetime mortgage are 
clear that interest would continue to accrue until the mortgage was redeemed in its entirety. 
It therefore follows that I think Aviva acted reasonably in continuing to charge interest after 
Mrs C passed away up until the mortgage was repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Aviva 
Equity Release UK Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman