DRN-1519266
 
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1996 with a mortgage. Mr 
S and Mrs S originally took out a policy that covered them both if they couldn't work because 
of accident, sickness or unemployment. But this policy was cancelled before they paid any 
premiums. It was replaced with a policy that provided cover for Mr S if he was made 
redundant. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S and Mrs Ss case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr S 
and Mrs S, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr S and Mrs S information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed 
choice about the insurance they were buying?
 
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr S and Mrs S are 
worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided that the PPI wasn't mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S and Mrs S say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that Nationwide didn't 
give them a proper choice. They say they were told they had to buy the cover to get the 
mortgage they wanted. I've noted everything Mr S and Mrs S have said.The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr S and Mrs S and 
Nationwide when the policy was taken out. I'm also mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Nationwide hasn't been able to provide much documentation from the time of the sale, which 
isn't surprising given the amount of time that's passed. And it's similar to some other cases 
I've seen. But from the limited information I have seen, there is nothing to suggest that 
buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Mr S and Mrs S have told me, I don't think I can 
fairly or reasonably say that Nationwide didnt make them aware the PPI was optional.
I can't be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr S and Mrs S before they agreed to 
buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S and Mrs 
S would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Mr S satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And he wasn't 
affected by any of the limitations on the policy, such as those affecting self-employed people. 
So I don't think he and Mrs S needed better information about the policy's exclusions and 
limitations.
In summary, I think Mr S and Mrs S agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have 
to. And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont 
think they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they 
had been better informed.
Mr S and Mrs S have mentioned that the mortgage was an endowment mortgage, and they 
consider the PPI shouldn't have been sold with that type of product. But I'm not persuaded 
that's the case. The policy would've covered their monthly endowment payments in the event 
of a successful claim. So this point doesn't change my overall conclusions about the 
complaint.
Which means Nationwide does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and 
Mrs S.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S and Mrs S about that. Because 
Nationwide didn't tell Mr S and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr S and Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I don't award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman