DRN-3604363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that their home insurance policy was voided because of undisclosed 
claims.
Mr and Mrs B bought home insurance through the administrator, Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited (Hastings). The policy was underwritten by two separate companies. 
Although the policy was in both Mr and Mrs Bs names, for ease Ill refer only to Mrs B 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs B got a quote for her home insurance online. After some problems completing the 
process, she called Hastings to finalise the purchase.
Towards the end of the policy term, Mrs B contacted Hastings about some damage. 
Because of the relatively minor nature of the damage, she decided not to go ahead with a 
claim. The contact prompted the insurer to review her claims history and it found evidence of 
previous claims which hadnt been disclosed at the point of sale. As a result, the insurer 
voided the policy and returned Mrs Bs payment. All contact was made under Hastings 
branding as the administrator of the policy.
Mrs B complained to Hastings. She said the online process hadnt been clear about how to 
record claims which she didnt go ahead with, or about damage caused by an insurers 
contractors. Mrs B said shed got quotes for policies both with and without declaring the 
previous history and found they were broadly similar. Mrs B said Hastings didnt tell her 
which quote it was looking at when she called to complete the purchase, so she assumed it 
would be aware of the incident details.
Hastings upheld Mrs Bs complaint. It found that the call handler who completed the sale 
hadnt asked Mrs B if the online information was correct, nor had it advised her to check the 
information on the paperwork was correct. Hastings offered Mrs B compensation of £50 for 
its error.
However, after first checking with it, Hastings said the underwriter wouldnt change its 
decision to void the policy.
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. She wanted the record of the voided policy 
removed from her records.
At first, our investigator thought a fair outcome would be for Hastings to remove the void 
status from Mrs Bs record. Hastings didnt agree. It said the online application clearly asked 
Mrs B to declare previous incidents and, if shed been uncertain, its reasonable to think 
shed have mentioned it when completing her purchase over the phone.
Our investigator agreed and thought Hastings had done enough with its offer of 
compensation for failing to remind Mrs B to read the documents and confirm the details were 
accurate.
Mrs B was unhappy with the change in outcome and asked for a further review.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. While theres no change in 
outcome, and I realise shell be disappointed, I think its reasonable for both parties to have a 
final opportunity to comment. Thats because I cant consider the insurers actions in my 
decision about Hastings, and because Ill comment on information which I asked for after our 
investigators review which influenced my decision.
As Mrs B pointed out, theres a lot of information in relation to her complaint. I wont 
comment on everything, and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ill address the overall 
complaint and comment only on the information which helps explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Because it was the underwriters decision to void the policy, and this complaint is about the 
administrator, I wont be making a decision about whether the underwriter fairly voided Mrs 
Bs policy. Ill be looking at whether anything Hastings did when helping Mrs B through the 
final steps of the policy purchase may have contributed to the underwriters decision to void 
the policy.
Hastings confirmed that it didnt go through two pieces of scripted information when Mrs B 
called to make payment for the online quote - whether the online information was correct, 
and to advise her to read the paperwork when she received it. Hastings accepted this 
shortfall and offered Mrs B £50 compensation by way of apology. 
Ive thought about whether Hastings shortfall would likely have made a difference to Mrs Bs 
responses and, ultimately, the insurers decision to void the policy. I dont think it would. 
Thats because she was already aware that she hadnt included the incident history in her 
online quote. Mrs B knew she had incidents to declare because:
she got quotes for a policy both with and without her incident/claims history;
her last two schedules from the previous insurer show a reduction in no claims 
discount, suggesting shed made claims, and
she provided details of incidents reported to her insurer which didnt result in a pay-
out.
While Mrs B said the incidents didnt result in claims, Hastings online process explained that 
incidents should be included even if they hadnt resulted in a claim or pay out. I also note 
that Mrs B said one of the incidents was compensation from the insurer for poor 
workmanship when investigating her claim. Mrs B had obtained quotes both with and without 
her incident history, so it wasnt a matter of her forgetting the incidents or overlooking the 
question. Mrs B also said she didnt know which quote Hastings was looking at, which 
suggests she didnt think the incident history mattered significantly. So, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs B wouldnt have provided any different information had 
Hastings asked the scripted questions.Overall, the evidence suggests that Mrs B knew she hadnt provided full details on her policy 
application. While I accept that she thought the claims didnt matter because there was no 
pay out, and the quotes didnt show a significant price difference, I dont think Hastings 
failure to prompt her to read the details and correct any inaccuracies wouldve made any 
difference. Therefore, Im satisfied that Hastings didnt do anything which mightve 
contributed to the insurers decision to void the policy.
I said, for the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold the 
complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Hastings didnt comment further.
Mrs B remained unhappy and directed me to three specific points. She said my provisional 
decision implied she lied and referenced my comments about whether:
1. she thought the incident history mattered;
2. she wouldve provided different information if asked scripted questions, and
3. whether she knew she hadnt provided full details.
Ill address these points and Mrs Bs overall comments now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand that Mrs B doesnt think Ive considered her information and that Ive 
relied only on Hastings version of events. Im sorry she feels that way. Ive taken all the 
evidence into consideration, and I hope the fact that I requested additional information from 
Mrs B during my review goes some way to reassure her of that. While I understand she 
wont necessarily be happy that Ive not reached a decision in her favour, that doesnt mean I 
havent taken her view into account.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I wont comment on every piece of information. 
Mrs B and Hastings are aware of the details so, instead, Ill focus on the key points Mrs B 
raised in her response to my provisional decision.
When Mrs B bought the policy, shed looked around and sought quotes based on her claims 
history as she understood it. Having seen that there was very little difference in price, she 
took out a policy via Hastings. I understand the price may have been a key factor for Mrs B, 
but its important for an insurer to have full awareness of the risks offering cover will bring. 
The fact that Mrs B withdrew claims for various reasons, or which were the result of damage 
caused by other insurers, doesnt necessarily matter to Hastings. Hastings simply needed 
accurate information from Mrs B to present an accurate account of the risk to the 
underwriter. 
I said that Mrs B confirmed she didnt know which quote Hastings was looking at when she 
spoke to it on completing the policy purchase. I dont doubt that. But I think it wouldve been 
fair for her to check given that shed obtained quotes using different sets of information. Mrs 
B disagrees because her focus was on making payment and she says shed gone to great 
lengths to provide details of the claim. Ive seen that she did. But that was after shed bought 
the policy and after the insurer voided her policy. Entering information into an online quote system isnt the same as declaring all previous history if the policy Mrs B went on to buy was 
based on the quote which didnt include that history. 
Hastings made a mistake by not asking two scripted questions, one of which was whether all 
information provided online was correct. Mrs B said she wouldve responded that, all that 
information had already been discussed and should be noted.
I dont doubt this. But Mrs B was aware that shed used different information to obtain 
quotes, Hastings wasnt. So, if shed responded in that manner, its unlikely Hastings 
wouldve asked Mrs B whether shed obtained more than quote using different claims 
history. In essence, it would be unreasonable for me to say Hastings shouldve asked Mrs B 
about something it had no reason to be aware of. Therefore, Mrs Bs confirmation of what 
her response wouldve been doesnt persuade me that Hastings did anything wrong.
Finally, Mrs B said she wouldnt have pursued a risky position of not having cover when she 
could get cover anyway for a similar price by declaring previous incidents. She also said she 
discussed the claims with Hastings. But this contradicts what she said about not knowing 
which quote Hastings was looking at, or what she wouldve said if Hastings had asked a 
direct, scripted question. Mrs B said she wouldve told Hastings the information had already 
been noted. While that may be the case, I can only consider what happened. The evidence 
indicates that Mrs B, unsure of the quote Hastings was looking at, bought the policy without 
checking that shed properly declared previous incidents, whether or not they resulted in a 
settled claim.
Overall, Im satisfied that Hastings addressed its shortfalls in respect of missed scripted 
questions, and the evidence suggests that it didnt cause Mrs B to provide inaccurate 
information which resulted in her policy avoidance. Im not suggesting that Mrs B deliberately 
gave inaccurate information  simply that I cant see that Hastings did anything wrong that 
hasnt already been addressed by the compensation.
Therefore, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman