DRN-2686645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the delays and poor customer service they received from 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited following a burglary. They feel the settlement offered 
through their home insurance policy is too low.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T are represented by their relative, Miss T. Mr and Mrs Ts house was broken 
into and a number of items were stolen. Damage was also caused to several internal doors. 
So they raised a claim with Lloyds on their home insurance policy. Mr and Mrs T said various 
items were settled by agreement with Lloyds although thered been delays. But they felt the 
settlement offered for damaged doors, door furniture and frames wasnt enough to put things 
right. Lloyds wasnt offering to replace enough of the internal doors under the matching sets 
cover of the policy. So Mr and Mrs T would like all of the matching internal doors replacing. 
And they want appropriate compensation for the delay in settling the matter.
After Mr and Mrs T reported the incident Lloyds appointed a personal claims consultant 
(PCC) to manage their claim. A contractor was sent to look at the damage and they 
estimated costs of around £650 for each damaged door and for redecoration. But Mr and 
Mrs T said the amount estimated for the doors wasnt enough. Mr and Mrs T had a matching 
items clause on their policy. And they wanted all seven doors on the first floor replacing as 
well as two matching doors downstairs. 
Lloyds agreed to replace all seven doors on the first floor as they had the same appearance 
 even though only four had been damaged. But Lloyds said it wouldnt cover the 
replacement cost of the two doors downstairs that hadnt been damaged.
When Mr and Mrs T expressed concerns about Lloyds contractor carrying out the work, 
Lloyds offered a cash settlement of around £6200 so that they could get their own contractor 
to replace the doors. But Mr and Mrs T didnt think that was enough. So Lloyds asked them 
to obtain their own quote for the replacement doors and Lloyds contacted an independent 
contractor to also provide a quotation.
The quote from Mr and Mrs Ts door specialist estimated the cost per door to be just under 
£2000 including vat. The independent contractor appointed by Lloyds estimated the cost to 
be just over £1000 per door but Mr and Mrs T didnt think the contractor could replace the 
doors on a like for like basis for that amount. And they provided another quotation from a 
specialist door company who estimated it would cost nearly £2400 to replace each door. 
After considering all of the information Lloyds agreed to increase its settlement offer to 
replace the seven doors on the first floor on a like for like basis. Lloyds offered just over 
£7700 based on the quotations provided by its own contractor and the independent 
contractor itd appointed. It felt that was a reasonable amount to complete the door 
replacements to the previous standard. 
Lloyds also accepted thered been some avoidable delays which meant the claim hadnt 
progressed as well as it shouldve. And it paid £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs T.
But Mr and Mrs T say they didnt receive the final response letter. And after it was re-sent 
they complained about the number of times the offer had changed. It still wasnt enough to 
complete the necessary repairs. And they explained the complicated process that would be 
required to trim and fit the new doors to the existing doorframes and the difficulties in 
redecorating them to the same standard. 
Lloyds didnt agree with the amount of work that Mr and Mrs T felt was necessary. It said its 
contractors were able to do the work and the repairs would have a twelve-month guarantee. 
But if Mr and Mrs T didnt want to use Lloyds contractors it could only offer a cash 
settlement for the amount it felt was reasonable for the work required. 
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with Lloyds response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Lloyds and Mr and Mrs T had differing 
views on the amount of work needed to put things back in the position theyd been in before 
the break-in. But she felt Lloyds had acted fairly in offering to do the work, or if Mr and Mrs T 
preferred to manage the repairs themselves, in offering a cash settlement for the amount it 
wouldve cost Lloyds to do the work itself. 
Our investigator hadnt seen anything to suggest Lloyds contractors couldnt carry out the 
work. And she didnt think Lloyds should replace the undamaged ground floor doors as it 
would put Mr and Mrs T in a better position than they were in before the break-in. Overall 
she felt Lloyds had dealt with the claim fairly. And itd paid reasonable compensation for the 
delays and poor communication. So she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Lloyds 
contractor had only offered a limited colour range for the internal doors. They werent a close 
match and would be a different colour to the ground floor doors. Lloyds might be able to 
obtain the right sort of door. But it wouldnt be able to carry out the bespoke staining or 
dyeing required to get the correct colour. And Lloyds hadnt applied the policy terms correctly 
 it should replace all of the matching doors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. And our investigator gave a 
detailed breakdown of the issues and costs involved.  So I wont repeat them in full again 
here. Both Lloyds and Mr and Mrs T have provided comprehensive information about the 
work required to put things right. So Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Of course being the victim of a burglary is likely to be very upsetting and putting things right 
will involve a degree of stress and inconvenience. As well as the stolen items, the burglars 
damaged a number of doors in the property.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ts concerns that Lloyds contractors wouldnt be able to carry 
out the repairs to the necessary standard. They think there is more work needed than the 
contractors have identified. And therefore the cash settlement offered isnt enough if Mr and 
Mrs T wanted to organise the work themselves. 
So Ive looked at everything Mr and Mrs T and Lloyds have said. Ive considered whether 
Lloyds has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy. And 
whether the cash settlement offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. There are three main issues Mr and Mrs T are complaining about. How many of the internal 
doors should be replaced under the matching items section of their home insurance policy; 
the cash settlement offered if they want to arrange the repairs themselves; and the level of 
service theyve received while dealing with the claim.
Matching items 
Mr and Mrs T had replacement of sets cover in their policy. This is intended to make sure a 
uniform look is maintained if, for example, only some wall tiles or cupboard units are 
damaged and need replacing. And Id expect Lloyds to replace sufficient matching items, 
even if they werent damaged, to make sure any associated items (in this case internal 
doors) looked the same as the replaced damaged ones.
Miss T has acknowledged how difficult it might be for the various suppliers to obtain either 
the right sort of door or to be able to offer a wide-enough range of dye colours. If the original 
dye was no longer available then Id expect Lloyds to offer a reasonable match where 
available. 
But its important to recognise the terms say the policy will pay for the cost of replacing or 
changing any associated undamaged item when a replacement or reasonable match cant 
be obtained. 
In this case the damaged doors can be replaced. And Lloyds has agreed to replace all seven 
doors on the first floor  even though three of them werent damaged. I think thats a 
reasonable outcome. It will put Mr and Mrs T back in the position (or as near as possible) 
that they were in before the damage occurred. But I dont think its fair to expect Lloyds to 
replace any doors on the ground floor as well. They dont form part of the set of doors that 
can be seen upstairs. And theyve not been damaged during the break-in.
Cash settlement
Mr and Mrs T dont feel Lloyds contractors can carry out the repairs to the necessary 
standard for the amount theyve estimated. And I appreciate they would prefer to get their 
own contractors to do the work. 
But the estimates Mr and Mrs T obtained from two specialist companies suggest the repairs 
and replacements would go further than would be necessary to put Mr and Mrs T back in the 
position they were in before the break-in. 
I know Mr and Mrs T feel there is more work required than Lloyds has identified. And I 
appreciate the information Miss T has provided about the complicated staining processes 
required to match the replacement doors as closely as possible to the originals. But I think 
Lloyds is entitled to rely on the opinions of its own expert contractors when determining what 
is required to put things right. So I wouldnt expect Lloyds to offer more than it would cost for 
its own contractors to do the work.
In the how to claim section of the home insurance policy it says, depending on the extent 
and type of damage, we can rebuild, repair, or replace your things, or give you a cash 
payment. The policy continues we have trusted suppliers who can repair or replace your 
lost or damaged items and we guarantee all claims-related work done by our approved 
contractors for a minimum of 12 months from the day theyre finished. 
I can see Lloyds has offered slightly more in total than its own contractors estimated the cost 
to be. And I think thats a reasonable response. I know Mr and Mrs T feel Lloyds should pay whatever the normal market cost would be if 
they cant do it themselves. But Lloyds feels it can carry out the repairs successfully. And it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to pay considerably more than it believes it would cost to do 
the work itself.
 
Poor service
Lloyds has accepted it didnt always handle Mr and Mrs Ts claim to the standard Im sure it 
aspires to. Although its records show the personal claims consultant tried to contact Mr and 
Mrs T on a number of occasions, they say they didnt receive the calls. And there were 
delays while Mr and Mrs T dealt with important family matters in the middle of the process. 
I do appreciate how stressful it can be while trying to resolve a lengthy and complicated 
insurance claim. But overall I think Lloyds payment of £200 compensation, with a further £25 
offered for the delay in reissuing documentation, is fair in the circumstances. 
I dont underestimate the distress Mr and Mrs T have suffered following the break-in and 
damage to their property. And Miss T has provided a lot of information to help our service 
review the compliant. I realise they feel Lloyds should offer a settlement figure that matches 
the cost of getting the work done in the open market if it cant provide the service itself.
But based on everything Ive seen I think Lloyds has handled the complaint fairly. Its offered 
to replace all of the internal doors upstairs, so a matching look is maintained throughout the 
first floor. And if Mr and Mrs T want someone else to carry out the work its offered a cash 
settlement for the amount it believes it can do the work for itself.
I know Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think Lloyds offer of 
£7720.60 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think Lloyds has also paid Mr and 
Mrs T a fair level of compensation for the delays and communication issues they 
experienced during the claim. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman