DRN-2958374
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) handled 
their claim under their Home Emergency policy for a leaking shower pump. The policy is in 
joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr W throughout my decision.
  
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his Home Emergency policy with RSA after finding that the hose 
from his shower pump was leaking. RSAs engineer isolated the shower to stop the leak and 
ordered replacement part(s). Another appointment was agreed. 
There followed a disagreement between Mr W and RSAs engineers about the policy cover 
limit, which delayed approval of the repair. Mr W evidenced his policy limit after contacting 
RSA directly. The appointment was then rescheduled to a few days later because the part(s) 
hadnt arrived in time. 
RSA completed the repair, but Mr W contacted it again the same day to say the hose was 
still leaking and he was without hot water. He thought RSAs engineer had caused the 
problem. Another appointment was made for the next day, then delayed for a further day 
because of jobs overrunning.
The engineer said more parts were needed and as the cost of repair exceeded Mr Ws 
cover, RSA asked him to pay the additional cost. RSA and Mr W disagreed about whether 
the repair shouldve been a new claim, but Mr W paid the additional charge so that the leak 
would be repaired.
The leak was repaired 23 days after Mr W first made his claim.
Mr W highlighted five areas of complaint:
poor customer care in managing his claim
excessive exposure to potential Covid infection from six plumber visits
doubting his account of the situation
effectiveness of engineers
potential fraud
RSA accepted that thered been shortfalls in its handling of Mr Ws claim and offered, in 
total, £350 compensation along with a refund of the disputed charge for part(s) and labour. 
Mr W didnt think it was enough and asked for £1150, equivalent to £50 per day for the time 
he was without use of his shower.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that RSA hadnt handled the claim 
as well as it couldve done, and he identified avoidable delays. However, our investigator 
thought RSAs offer was fair in the circumstances and he didnt recommend any additional 
action. Mr W didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr W summarised his complaint as RSA taking 23 days and six attempts to replace a hose 
to his shower pump which was freely available to buy and a simple part to replace.
Ive looked at what the policy covers:
We will pay the cost of the repair, parts and call out charges for work undertaken at the 
address shown on the schedule by a tradesman authorised by us to carry out temporary or 
permanent repairs in the circumstances detailed, which if not dealt with immediately upon 
discovery will make the home unsafe or insecure for you, cause damage to the home or its 
contents, or result in the home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or 
cold).
The most we will pay for any one claim including the cost of the repair, parts, call out 
charges, alternative accommodation and VAT is up to £500. 
1. Repairs necessary to restore the service or prevent further damage to the home as a 
result of failure or damage to the plumbing or drainage system.
Theres no dispute that the leak was covered under the policy, so Ive thought about what 
RSA shouldve done and what it did to see whether there is anything it needs to put right. Im 
not required to comment on every piece of evidence, though I may refer to something which 
I think is relevant to explain why Ive reached my decision. 
Firstly, I know Mr W feels strongly about whether RSA replaced one part or more than one 
part. He disputes any reference to parts because he says RSA only replaced a single part  
the hose  and he provided a photo of the old one left in the cupboard next to the 
replacement. RSAs job notes from the day of its first visit say:
Isolated shower pump at gate valves and drained so leak is now isolated, however 
customer is now without shower, requires 4 x 15mm gate valves, 1 x 22mm gate valve and 
4 shower pump flexis to get shower up and running 
So, on the first day, RSA thought valves as well as the hose were needed. Mr Ws timeline of 
events says RSA replaced the hose and, later, some valves. I understand that he thinks the 
valves were replaced because RSA broke them, but that doesnt matter for this point. Im 
satisfied RSA replaced at least two parts, therefore Ill refer to parts.
Customer care
Mr W had to prove the level of cover his policy provided, which he believes caused delays. 
He also complained about the number of calls he had to make, and RSAs missed or 
dropped calls.
RSA hasnt disputed the shortfalls in its customer service. Its account notes show the 
disagreement about the policy cover limit and the many calls made. Ive taken this into 
consideration when deciding whether RSA made a fair offer of compensation. 
Potential exposure to Covid infectionGovernment guidelines in force at the time permitted emergency appointments and I dont 
think Mr W has challenged that. What he is concerned about is the additional risk carried by 
repeat attendances of a plumber who he thought shouldve completed the repair properly 
and in fewer visits. 
I dont underestimate the concerns Mr W mustve had in the circumstances, and I can see 
why he thinks six visits was unnecessary. Having looked at the job sheets, it seems that at 
least two visits were necessary, but that doesnt mean four of the visits were avoidable. The 
job sheet from the first visit indicates that the overall plumbing system was in poor condition 
so I cant be certain that replacing the hose on the second visit wouldve prevented further 
leaks. Nevertheless, Im willing to accept that six visits seem excessive for the work required. 
However, as much as I sympathise with Mr Ws concern about the additional risk of infection, 
I cant make an award for something which didnt happen. That said, Id expect RSA to 
acknowledge the concern and added distress the situation wouldve caused Mr W at the 
time. Ive considered this when deciding whether compensation is warranted.
 
Doubting his account of the situation
Mr W complained that RSA doubted the level of cover he had and didnt believe the hose 
was still leaking after one of its visits. The policy confirms Mr W had cover up to £500 but the 
account records showed £150. RSA made a mistake here and it has acknowledged that. 
Though its not clear why Mr W was asked to provide evidence of the continued leak. I 
accept that Mr W wouldve seen this as a lack of trust which wouldve caused him some 
frustration and inconvenience. Ive taken this point into consideration when deciding the 
award.
Effectiveness of engineers
Theres a dispute here about whether RSA caused some of the problems Mr W experienced. 
He says RSAs plumber broke one of the gate valves and he disputes the number of valves 
it replaced and charged for. I dont doubt that the gate valve didnt work properly after RSAs 
plumber left. But that doesnt mean the plumber broke the valve. RSA reported that there 
was poor plumbing all round and it ordered a valve on the first visit. I cant be certain 
whether RSA broke the valve or whether it became less effective simply because of its worn 
state, so Ive thought about whether it matters.
If it broke because of wear and tear, I cant hold RSA responsible. If its plumber broke the 
valve, Id expect RSA to replace it free of charge and compensate Mr W for the 
inconvenience. Although there was some dispute about whether RSA charged for the valve, 
it did replace it and, ultimately, it was free of charge. It also offered compensation. So, Im 
satisfied it put matters right as if it had broken the valve, so I cant see that it needs to do any 
more in respect of this point.
Potential fraud
Mr W thinks RSA charged for parts and labour it didnt provide. The plumber recorded that 
the first valve wasnt stuck as he expected it would be, so the job was much quicker than 
anticipated and the remaining valves werent needed. RSA refunded the additional charge. I 
have no reason to think RSA wouldnt have refunded the charge for any unused materials or 
labour even if Mr W hadnt complained, and Im satisfied it put that right. I cant fairly award 
compensation for this issue. As a final point, Mr W said his vulnerable relative had to return home because there were no 
bathing facilities, meaning he had to commute for five days to provide assistance during a 
carers absence. While Mr W made RSA aware during the claim that he had a vulnerable 
family member staying with him who couldnt use the bath, I cant fairly say RSA is 
responsible for the inconvenience he experienced travelling to their home to provide care. 
Thats because the policy covers him and his family, and the policy defines family as:
You or any of the following people providing they normally live with you:
your husband, wife or partner;
children (including foster children);
your relatives;
As Mr Ws relative didnt normally live with him, cover isnt provided for them and it would be 
too remote for RSA to anticipate the impact that loss of shower facilities had on him. I see no 
reason for RSA to provide compensation for Mr Ws travel or the inconvenience that caused. 
Overall, I can see that RSA didnt handle parts of Mr Ws claim as well as it mightve done, 
so Ive thought carefully about how he described the impact that had on him. 
It was 23 days from making the claim to RSA completing the repair. There would 
always have been some inconvenience due to the loss of shower facilities, though I 
accept it shouldnt have been for 23 days. 
No hot water for six days.
Some of the delay and one rescheduled appointment was unavoidable because RSA 
had to wait for parts to become available. 
I agree Mr W shouldnt have had to prove his cover limit as that information was 
available to RSA, and I understand that a subsequent request for proof of the 
continued leak wouldve been frustrating.
I accept that Mr W wouldve felt upset when RSA charged him for parts and labour he 
didnt think he needed to pay. 
To put matters right, RSA refunded the parts and labour charge, and offered compensation 
of £350 in total for the overall distress and inconvenience. As RSA said the parts and full 
labour werent needed, I dont think the refund is compensation. Its a payment due to Mr W. 
But taking into consideration the shortfalls in service Mr W experienced, and the impact on 
him, Im satisfied that £350 is fair and reasonable and in line with awards our service would 
make in similar circumstances. I wont be asking RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman