DRN-3315998
The complaint
Trustees Mr C and Mr N complain, on behalf of the trust C, that Legal and General
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a claim on the level term life assurance policy of
Mrs C.
In connection with this declined claim, Mr C obtained legal representation. However, for 
ease, in this decision I will refer to their comments as those of the trust and/or trustees.
What happened
In December 2016 Mrs C applied for a number of personal protection policies offered by
L&G. The one of relevance to this complaint was a 14 year level term life assurance policy
with a sum assured of £89,304. This was applied for using an independent financial advisor
(IFA). The application was accepted, and cover started in February 2017. The policy was
then placed in trust with Mr C and Mr N as the trustees.
Unfortunately, Mrs C took her own life in 2020 and so her husband, Mr C, submitted a claim.
As part of its assessment of the claim L&G reviewed information about Mrs Cs medical
history that was provided to the Coroner in connection with the Inquest into her death.
After reviewing this evidence, L&G thought that it should have been told Mrs C had a history
of depression when the policy was applied for.
L&G decided Mrs C had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her circumstances by
failing to share this history in the application form. It said that had it known this information, it
would have charged Mrs C more for the cover. It wrote to Mr C to confirm it had avoided the
policy (cancelled the policy from the start) and declined the claim.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and so he complained to L&G. L&G didnt uphold the complaint
and so the trustees brought the trusts concerns to our service. In particular, they noted that:
Mrs C isnt able to provide an account of why she gave the answers she did.
The application was made by an IFA which means it isnt possible to know how the  
questions were put or the answers recorded.
It is not known whether Mrs C ever received a copy of her answers to check.
And even if she had checked, she might not have felt there was a need to check too 
carefully if shed given the IFA the correct information.
Mrs C gave L&G consent for them to access her medical records, but it didnt do so.
Our investigator looked into things but was ultimately of the opinion L&G had acted fairly in
the circumstances.
The trustees disagreed and so this complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued 
provisional findings so that all parties had the opportunity to provide any additional 
comments before a final decision was reached. In brief, I said that I thought L&Gs decision 
was fair, but I didnt agree that that there were as many misrepresentations as identified by 
L&G when it assessed the claim.
No parties provided further comments or evidence for me to consider. And Im now in a 
position to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by passing on my condolences to Mr C and Mr N. I dont doubt that this has
been an incredibly difficult time and that it must have come as a shock to have the claim
declined.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry
guidance that was in place at the time L&G made its decision. This is called,
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products
September 2019. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the
remedies available to the insurer.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific.
The code also says consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the
opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately
prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether there was what the
Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation and whether this was deliberate or reckless,
or careless. For any misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, as well as showing the
consumer failed to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to be able to show it made a
difference to the terms on which it would offered the policy or that it wouldnt have offered
the policy at all.
Where the qualifying misrepresentation is considered deliberate/reckless an insurer can
avoid the policy and keep the premiums. The code also notes that avoiding a policy should
be confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.
Where a qualifying misrepresentation is careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy, CIDRA
says that the insurer must show that but for the misrepresentation/s it would not have offered
the policy at all. If the insurer would have charged a higher premium it should proportionately
settle a valid claim.
Was there a misrepresentation?
There are two questions identified by L&G that it thinks Mrs C answered incorrectly.These are:
Have you Ever:
 been admitted overnight to hospital or referred to a psychiatrist for mental illness, anorexia
or bulimia?
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
 anxiety, depression or stress thats required treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue
syndrome?
Mrs C answered no to both questions.
Mrs Cs GP has advised that she had a long history of depression and anxiety. In 2010, she
was prescribed medication for recurrent major depressive episodes. The GP letter indicates
she then remained on medication for this throughout subsequent years.
In 2015 Mrs C sought to reduce this medication and changes were made to both the
prescription and dosage, but this ultimately led to some deterioration in her mood.
Mrs C was then reviewed by a private psychiatrist later that year. The GP evidence suggests
that she had at least five appointments between April and November 2015 in connection with
her depression. The medical notes also show Mrs C was signed off as not fit to work for over
six weeks between September and November 2015.
The question I need to consider is whether it was fair for L&G to conclude that Mrs C failed
to take reasonable care when answering these questions. And having carefully reviewed the
evidence, I think L&G can fairly conclude theres been a misrepresentation in relation to the
second question but not the first  Ill explain why.
Mrs Cs medical history indicates she had been seen by a psychiatrist for mental illness.
But what I would observe is that the first question listed asked if shed been referred to a
psychiatrist. I think a reasonable consumer would understand the process of referral in this
question to involve a medical professional recommending that you see a psychiatrist.
Here the contemporaneous GP record indicates this was a privately arranged appointment,
rather than one arranged by her GP. So, Mrs C wasnt referred by her GP. Mrs Cs family
have since explained one of them is a psychiatrist who was in a position to arrange for Mrs C
to see a colleague when she was unwell in 2015. The psychiatrist family member stressed
this was not due to clinical severity or need and it might have been the case that family
were a bit over concerned. So, theres no suggestion this appointment resulted from a
private medical referral either. It seems to be no medical professional recommended this
appointment occurred, rather it was requested because it was an available option to Mrs C.
This being the case, Im not persuaded that Mrs C was referred to a psychiatrist and so I
dont think L&G can fairly say she ought to have answered yes to this question.
However, I think the second question is clear and specific  L&G gave relevant timeframes
and focused on the conditions L&G was seeking to know about. And, as outlined above, in
the five years before Mrs Cs application shed seen a doctor, nurse or other health
professional for depression, on more than one occasion. So, I do think L&G can fairly say
Mrs C ought to have answered yes to this question.
I appreciate the policy was applied for via an IFA. And I can understand why the trustees
think this is relevant when assessing whether Mrs C took care not to make a
misrepresentation. But the code states:
If the intermediary was clearly acting on behalf of the customerthe intermediary (as
opposed to the insurer) should be accountable for any misrepresentation resulting directlyfrom the intermediarys action or omission.
Here the IFA was acting on Mrs Cs behalf and not on L&Gs. So, I think L&G can fairly rely
on the information given to it by Mrs Cs agent, providing it highlighted the importance of
accurate disclosures.
After Mrs Cs application was submitted, on 18 January 2017, Ive seen evidence that L&G
contacted Mrs C via its online portal asking her to check her details. Mrs C was then
provided with a copy of the questions and answers submitted as part of the application.
She was asked to sign a form to confirm the information was correct or provide details of any
amendments if not. Mrs C didnt respond and so L&G sent a reminder via the online portal
on 27 February 2017. When L&G still didnt receive a response, it sent both Mrs C a letter
via post on 27 March 2017, again asking her to check the details and return the form, but it
didnt receive a response.
Ive seen a copy of the letter sent to Mrs C via post and Im satisfied this was correctly
addressed. So, on balance, I think this was likely received by Mrs C. This letter similarly
enclosed the application questions and answers. The personal details form warned If the
answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may mean
that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. And the letter clearly stated
Mrs C should read the enclosed Personal Details Document carefully and check the
answers youve given us.
So, Im satisfied Mrs C was given the opportunity to check her answers and was warned of
the importance of doing so.
The trustees have also raised the fact L&G asked for permission to obtain Mrs Gs medical
records but then didnt do so. I wouldnt necessarily expect an insurer to request medical
evidence at the start of a policy as it is not practical for an insurer to do this for every
application. Its accepted industry practice that insurers rely on the information given to them
by the consumer  and thats why there is so much emphasis in the application and the
follow up paperwork about checking answers. Insurers would only request further medical
evidence where they felt it necessary to assess an application or if they were carrying out
randomly selected checks.
Im aware there was a follow up letter sent to Mrs G about medical consent on the same day
as the application was submitted. The letter recapped the consent given and explained how
Mrs C could withdraw this. It then talked about what Mrs C should be aware of when giving
consent and what information a GP report could include. The letter didnt explicitly state
whether L&G would obtain a report, but its references to the GP report are not qualified
either  the letter didnt refer to the report L&G may obtain or could request. So, I do think
this letter could have given Mrs C the impression L&G might be obtaining medical
information. But I dont think any impression this letter might have given is sufficient to 
negate the warnings about checking details included in the many follow up emails and letters
sent to Mrs C. So, I still think it can be fairly said that there was a failure to take reasonable
care here. As even if Mrs C thought medical information was being requested, she was still
sent copies of her answers and warned she should check them for accuracy.
For all of these reasons, I think L&G can fairly say Mrs C made a misrepresentation here.
Is the misrepresentation qualifying?
An insurer must show the misrepresentation would have altered the terms it would have
offered at the point of application for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation.Having reviewed the underwriting guidance in place at that time, Im satisfied L&G would
have charged Mrs C a higher premium for the same cover. Given that full disclosure would
have significantly altered the terms L&G would have offered, Im satisfied this was a
qualifying misrepresentation.
Was this a deliberate/reckless misrepresentation?
L&G has categorised this misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless. It said Mrs Cs history of
depression was recent and so it saw no reason for this not to have been disclosed.
A deliberate or reckless misrepresentation is one where, in the circumstances, on the
balance of probabilities, the customer knew that the information given was untrue or
misleading and relevant to the insurer, or the customer did not care whether or not it was
relevant to the insurer nor whether it was untrue or misleading.
In relation to medical information, the code states that deliberate/reckless is more likely to
apply where misrepresented information concerns recent or ongoing treatment, specialist
consultations.that a reasonable consumer would have understood to be important to their
health.
I cant help but note that the evidence indicates Mrs C was taking medication to manage her
depression at the point of application and just over a year before this shed had consultations
with her GP surgery on multiple occasions and had also seen a psychiatrist. The medical
notes also show Mrs C was signed off as not fit to work for over six weeks between
September and November 2015. So, I think its fair for L&G to highlight how recent this was
and to conclude this is something a reasonable consumer ought to be able to recall. I also
think it can be fairly argued that Mrs C would have understood the importance to her health
of these appointments and medication she was being prescribed.
Mr C doesnt know why Mrs C answered in the way she did, and of course Mrs C is no
longer able to provide her account. This is clearly something which should be taken into
consideration when categorising a misrepresentation, but I also think its important to note
that this doesnt automatically mean its unfair for L&G to conclude this was deliberate or
reckless.
Ultimately, L&G thinks theres no credible explanation for the misrepresentation which is why
its applied this categorisation.
The trustees have since raised the fact Mrs C may not have felt the need to check her
answers carefully if shed given the right information to the IFA. Implicit in this is a
suggestion Mrs C might have told the IFA about her history of depression. But this isnt an
explanation thats been offered to L&G previously. Id note this isnt something Mr C has
raised despite explaining the application was completed in person with both of them present.
So, at this stage, I dont know what information Mrs C provided to the IFA and I make no
findings about this as this complaint is not about the IFA. Regardless, I can see that L&G
actually made enquiries with the IFA when assessing the claim and was told the answers
had been recorded as given. I can see this is something L&G considered when reaching its
decision on how to categorise this misrepresentation. Ultimately, it felt able to discount this
possibility based on the information it received. And Im not persuaded this was
unreasonable given the information Ive reviewed.
In light of the warnings given about accurate answers and the specific question L&G asked, I
think Mrs C ought to have known this information was relevant to L&G.And given her recent and ongoing treatment I do think L&G can fairly argue that either Mrs C
knew that the information was incorrect, or she acted without any care as to whether it was.
Particularly in light of the failure to return the check your details form to L&G.
Whilst the categorisation of deliberate/reckless should be reserved for only the most serious
cases, Im persuaded that it can be fairly applied here. By declining the claim and avoiding
the policy, L&G has taken the action it is entitled to under CIDRA regarding
deliberate/reckless misrepresentation.
Im aware the trustees have raised the fact that by refunding the premiums, L&G has taken
action more in line with a careless misrepresentation than with a deliberate/reckless.
They think this undermines L&Gs position. But I dont agree. L&G has been clear throughout
its handling of this claim that it has categorised this misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless.
Refunding the premiums is clearly an action it is not obliged to take, but it isnt prevented
from doing so.
For all of these reasons, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to the
trustees, Mr C in particular, Im wont be asking L&G to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman