DRN-2651116
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to provide him with full information when 
he invested in a corporate bond issue through its nominee service. He says that if hed been 
made aware that hed have no contract with the bond issuer  meaning he couldnt sue it in 
the event of a loss  he wouldnt have invested.
What happened
Mr C invested in the bond issue in question in 2016 and sold the investment the following 
year at a loss. He attempted to instigate legal proceedings against the bond issuer but 
discovered that he was unable to. 
Mr C complained to Barclays, but it explained that as a nominee broker it held securities in 
trust, so while Mr C had been the beneficial owner of the bonds, Barclays wouldve been on 
the company register. It said this was the normal way in which a nominee service worked, 
and that it was explained in its terms. 
Barclays said the terms also made clear that registration in the name of a nominee would 
mean that investors could lose incentives and shareholder benefits associated with their 
investments. Barclays went on to confirm that it was an execution-only broker and that it had 
been Mr Cs responsibility to ensure he fully understood the consequences of using a 
nominee service.
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Barclays. She noted that Mr C felt that Barclays terms didnt meet the 
principles of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for the provision of information, as they 
didnt make clear that he would lose legal rights. But she nevertheless felt the terms had 
been reasonably clear. 
The investigator noted that Mr C felt that he had been misinformed by Barclays when hed 
discussed the investment with a member of staff prior to investing. She said that if any calls 
became available that showed that Mr C had been given incorrect information her view might 
change. 
Mr C did subsequently obtain some call recordings and highlighted that in one call to 
Barclays in February 2016, made prior to investing, he had specifically asked whether he 
would be able to sue the bond issuer. The member of staff had said that he didnt know. 
Mr C felt that the member of staff shouldve known and shouldve said that Mr Cs legal 
rights would be restricted by using a nominee service. And if he had done so, Mr C wouldnt 
have invested and wouldnt have incurred a loss. 
Despite this further information, the investigator remained of the view that the complaint 
should not be upheld. So, as no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Cs disappointment with his investment and the fact that he was unable 
to take any action against the bond issuer. But, having looked closely at the evidence, Im 
unable to conclude that Barclays did anything wrong in that respect. 
Its clear that Mr C has strong feelings about what he considers to be failings on the part of 
Barclays. Hes provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that he wont take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
There are two key questions to consider. Firstly, were Barclays terms sufficiently clear about 
the service it was providing? And, secondly, was Mr C misled when he discussed the service 
prior to investing? 
Having reviewed the terms, I think they set out the parameters of the service that Barclays 
was providing in relatively straightforward language, in line with the industry-standard type of 
information I would expect to see in terms of a financial service. I think they were clear on 
the nature of the relationship that was being created and drew reasonable attention to the 
fact that it may bring with it some potential disadvantages, so they were sufficiently detailed 
to put Mr C on notice of a potential issue. I consider that the terms were generally in line with 
the FCA Principles. 
I accept that they didnt explicitly deal with the issue of legal rights and the potential for suing 
a bond issuer. But, on balance, I dont think its reasonable to expect the terms to deal 
explicitly with each and every potential consequence of using a nominee service that might 
be encountered, particularly where the issue in question concerns the relationship between 
the investor and a third party, such as the bond issuer. The terms were intended to deal with 
the relationship between Mr C as Barclays customer and Barclays as the service provider. 
And, turning to the second question, if Mr Cs decision to invest hinged on whether (or not) 
he would be able to sue the bond issuer, then Ive not seen that he was prevented from 
finding a definitive answer on the issue.
I accept that he did ask the question of Barclays in the phone call of 4 February 2016. But 
the staff member he spoke to explained clearly that he didnt know the answer. That may 
have been frustrating for Mr C (although I note from listening to the call that he didnt sound 
particularly concerned that Barclays couldnt answer, neither did he stress that his decision 
was dependent on the information). But I dont think it was an unreasonable answer for the 
member of staff to give. Not all staff will know the answer to every question they might be 
asked. And importantly, the staff member suggested that Mr C take up his query with a 
lawyer or financial adviser. 
So, even if Mr C felt the staff member should have known the answer, he was nevertheless 
aware that he hadnt been given the information he needed, so he could then have sought 
an answer elsewhere, as the Barclays staff member suggested. Of course, if the information 
Barclays had provided had been incorrect  for instance, if the staff member had said that 
Mr C definitely would be able to sue the bond issuer  I would take a different view. But I 
think the response given to Mr Cs question was a reasonable one, particularly given that 
this was an execution-only service and the query touched on legal issues, that its unlikely 
the staff member wouldve been qualified to answer.As noted, I understand how strongly Mr C feels about the matter. But, looking impartially at 
the situation as Im required to do, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays acted incorrectly 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman