DRN-2837201
The complaint
Miss O complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE (Aioi) asked her
to pay extra premiums and then cancelled her motor insurance policy when she refused.
She also complains that a claim settled against her policy was recorded as a fault claim.
Miss Os policy was managed by an administrator, Company I, who was acting on behalf of
Aioi. For ease in this decision I will refer to the actions of Company I as those of Aioi.
What happened
In November 2018 Miss O took out a motor insurance policy with Aioi. As part of the terms
and conditions of her policy, she had a telematics box installed in her car.
In January 2019 Aioi received a claim from another party (the claimant) who said theyd
been in a collision with Miss Os car in a hospital carpark. They said the woman driving
identified herself by a name other than Miss Os (G), provided them with a telephone
number and apologised. The claimant said G had two children with her in the car.
So, Aioi contacted Miss O to find out what happened. Miss O said the claim was false and
she didnt know anyone called G. She told Aioi she was in hospital on the day of the
accident. She said her father had collected her car from her friends house and drove to the
hospital. She initially said this happened the day after the alleged accident but later agreed
this was the same day. Miss O said the damage to her car, which the claimant said was
linked to this accident, was actually from a previous accident. Miss O said the prior accident
was claimed for on insurance and provided the possible name of the insurer at that time. 
She felt the claimant was pretending thered been an accident in order to claim expenses.
Aioi ultimately decided to settle the claim as it felt it would not be able to defend the matter if
it went to court. It noted the telematics data and photos provided by the claimant placed
Miss Os car at the location. The claimant could also provide a description of the driver.
It recorded Miss Os claim as bonus disallowed and listed her as the driver on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database - the central database used by insurers for
recording claims information.
Whilst it was investigating the claim, Aioi noted the telematics data showed that most of the
time Miss Os car was not being parked overnight at the address declared when she took out
the policy. It said it was more often parked overnight at another address (the other
address).
So Aioi asked Miss O to explain this. Miss O said the declared address was her home
address, but said she visited the other address often as it was where her sons father lived.
Aioi said that because the car was being kept at the other address more often, Miss O had to
update the declared address or cancel the policy. Miss O was told changing the address
would increase her premium by around £4,000. And that cancelling the policy would incur
costs of around £1,100 because of the claim that had been made and cancellation fees.
Miss O didnt change the address and so in April 2019 Aioi cancelled the policy. It then
pursued Miss O for the outstanding costs.
Miss O complained to Aioi about the fact it had settled her claim and the cancellation of her
policy. But it didnt uphold the complaint. When making the complaint Miss O told Aioi some
sensitive personal information about why she didnt want to change her address on the
policy. It said that had it known about the personal information before it cancelled the policy
this might have changed things, but it did not know.
Miss O remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Miss O told us she
was in the area of the other address because of hospital appointments for her health
condition and for her son. She said she didnt tell Aioi about her personal circumstances as
she didnt think it had a right to know. Miss O also told us Aioi didnt give her a payment
option despite asking for a very large sum of money.
In relation to the claim, Aioi told us there were inconsistencies in Miss Os account which had
changed when she was presented with new information. It said on balance it was likely
Miss O knew G, as it had traced someone of the same name and telephone number to her
friends house from where Miss O said her father collected the car.
Miss Os complaint was allocated to an investigator at our service who asked Miss O about
G and about the circumstances of the accident. Miss O confirmed she knew G but said she
didnt know G by the name Aioi had used. Miss O said shed since spoken to G whod
confirmed she was in the car with Miss Os father at that time. G said Miss Os father had
gone into the hospital and G had then spoken with a man who had alleged an accident.
G told Miss O shed shared her details but confirmed Miss Os father hadnt been involved in
an accident.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Aioi had failed to properly
investigate the claim in January. So, he said that Miss O shouldnt be pursued for costs in
relation to this. He also said Aioi should amend the record of the claim against Miss O on
CUE to bonus allowed (non-fault) and remove Miss O as the named driver. But he felt the
cancellation of the policy was fair. Aioi didnt agree so the matters been passed to me to
decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a slightly different conclusion than 
the investigator. I also thought most of this complaint should have been set up against the 
underwriter, not the administrator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Aioi and Miss O 
so both had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Im aware Miss O also complained about the service she was provided. But this service was
provided by the administrator of the policy, Company I, so this would need to be looked at
separately and I wont be considering it here. In this decision I will only address Miss Os
concerns about things Aioi was ultimately responsible for.The claim
My role when looking at the claim isnt to decide whos at fault, but to look at whether Aioi
acted reasonably.
According to the policy terms, Aioi had the right to settle the claim as it felt appropriate. But I
would expect it to reach a reasonable decision based on the relevant facts and evidence.
I would also expect Aioi to take proportionate steps to investigate the claim. Overall, I dont
think Aioi carried out an appropriate investigation and acted reasonably  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Aiois claims notes and the email it sent Miss O at the time it decided to settle
the claim. I appreciate Aioi has since provided further rationale and evidence in support of its
decision to settle, but my role is to look at whether it acted reasonably at the time. So, Ive
started by looking at the information that was initially relied on. The rationale within these
notes is that:
The telematics data placed Miss Os car at the location at the time the claimant 
alleged the accident happened.
The claimant described the driver of Miss Os car, and having looked at Miss Os 
social media profile, Aioi felt the description matched Miss O.
Miss Os account had changed.
Miss O has consistently told Aioi that she was in hospital at the time of the accident. I cant
see that Aioi ever asked Miss O for evidence of this despite the fact these notes indicate it
still had concerns over whether she was the driver of the car at the time of the alleged
accident. I would expect it to have asked for this evidence if it was going to use the fact it
didnt think she was actually in hospital as a basis for deciding to settle the claim. So, I dont
think its fair it didnt do this. I also dont think it was reasonable for Aioi to be particularly
persuaded by the third-party descriptor. Because, whilst Miss Os nationality and gender
matched the description provided by the claimant, the estimated age given by the third party
did not.
I agree with Aioi that there was a discrepancy between Miss Os initial account and the one
she provided after it told her about the telematics data. But Miss O provided an explanation
for this - that is - she mistakenly thought her dad had driven her car the day after the
accident because that was the first time she remembers seeing him. At the time she said
she was in the ICU in hospital and was on a lot of medication. This explanation is plausible,
and in line with her consistent explanation of her own location at the time of the accident.
So, Im not persuaded by Aiois suggestion that this would have made the matter
indefensible in court.
There are also some simple enquiries which I think Aioi should have made to verify Miss Os
account of events. For example, Aioi doesnt appear to have contacted Miss Os father
directly to get his version of events. And despite the fact Miss O consistently told Aioi the
damage to her car was from a prior accident when her parents owned the car, it didnt
attempt to check this with a previous insurer. I can see Aioi did ask Miss O for further details
of this as part of a list of enquiries it sent when considering the claim. But whilst Miss O
replied to some of the queries, she didnt respond to this one. And I cant see that this was
ever raised with her again  something Id expect when the information is potentially crucial
in verifying whether an accident had even occurred. Miss O had also already provided some
possible names of previous insurers in one of the earlier calls with Aioi  something that I
cant see was noted or investigated.
For all of these reasons, I dont think Aioi did enough to fully investigate the claim and so I
dont think it was appropriate for it to decide, on balance, that Miss Os car was involved inan accident. So I think its decision to settle at this point was unfair and I dont think it acted in 
the best interests of Miss O.
Its impossible to know exactly what would have happened had Aioi made the enquiries I
would expect. But where evidence is incomplete, I have to decide what I thinks most likely.
In doing so Ive also considered the evidence gathered after Aioi made its claims decision.
I agree with Aioi that there are a significant number of inconsistencies in what Miss O has
said about what happened. But I dont have any first-hand accounts from the people who
were present when the alleged accident occurred. For me, the crucial thing here is that
Miss O has consistently said she wasnt there, and Ive seen no evidence to dispute this.
Ultimately, I cant say its unreasonable that Miss Os third-hand account of what happened
has changed. I dont know what questions she asked to gather the initial account from her
father, and later her friend G, or how they answered her. Nor how much of what Miss O has
told Aioi and our service was her assumptions. Confusion when someone is acting as a go 
between for information is not uncommon. Had this conflicting information come directly from 
either party involved, Id have been persuaded by Aiois continued assertion that it was
reasonable to settle the claim. But it hasnt, and so I dont think its fair for Aioi to rely on this.
Ive thought about the concerns Aioi raised about the fact Miss O initially said she didnt
know anyone called G. But when our service spoke to Miss O about this discrepancy, she
told us she didnt know G by the name Aioi provided. Miss O described how it was common
in Gs culture for people to have multiple names. The name someone might use in a formal
situation, like when someone alleges a car accident, would be different from the one used in
social settings. And I think this is a plausible explanation for this discrepancy.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest Aioi would
have uncovered evidence that would have allowed it to reasonably settle the third party
claim.
Insurers must accurately report on CUE database how much they paid out. So, I think the
fairest thing to do, given its possible a more thorough investigation may have changed
whether this claim was settled, is to direct Aioi to change the claim on CUE from bonus
disallowed to bonus allowed ie. from fault to non-fault. Which is something it can change.
I dont think Miss O should have to pay any money towards the claim and so I think Aioi
should stop pursuing her for this.
Miss O also says she was in hospital at the time of the accident, and therefore not driving
the car. So, I also think Aioi should amend CUE to show she was not the driver. In the
absence of a proper investigation into the claim, I think its fair for Aioi to list Miss Os father
as the driver, unless he disputes this  Aioi should contact him to check. If he does dispute
this, I think Aioi should attempt to gather accounts from both G and Miss Os father directly
and then make a decision about who it thinks is most likely to have been driving based on
the available evidence.
Premium increase and policy cancellation
Miss O purchased the policy over the phone following a quote she received via a price
comparison website. When obtaining this quote Miss O was given the following warning
when inputting her address This is the address that your policy documentation will be sent
to; its also the address where the car will be kept and insured (unless you tell us otherwise
later on). Miss O did not declare that her car was being kept elsewhere and ticked yes
when asked if this was where the car was normally kept  the comparison website describes
the term normally as most of the time.
Ive seen the location data Aioi has been able to provide. This isnt comprehensive, astheres only 85 days of data available over a four month timeframe. But of the available data,
only 24 of these nights were spent at Miss Os declared home address, 29 were spent at the
other address and 32 were spent at various other locations. On balance, I think this indicates
it was likely Miss O was not at her declared overnight location most of the time. So I think it
was fair for Aioi to raise this with Miss O.
What I dont think was fair was for Aioi to insist Miss O changed her overnight location to the
other address without exploring this further. I say this noting that Miss O told Aioi that she
didnt live at the other address and would no longer be going there very often. The data also
shows she wasnt at the other address most of the time either - she spent 56 of the 85
recorded nights elsewhere. Miss O has since provided our service with bank statements
supporting her account that her home address throughout this time remained the declared
address  evidence I think Aioi should have asked for back then. Had it done so, I think Aioi
could have given Miss O a warning about where she kept her car for the remainder of the
policy  after all, it had the ability to monitor this using the telematics data and there were
another 8 months of the contract remaining.
For these reasons, I think Aioi should record the policy as cancelled by Miss O, removing the
insurer cancellation from her records. I also think it should provide Miss O with a letter
confirming the cancellation wasnt her fault, which she can then provide to her current
insurer to ensure her new premiums are fairly calculated. I also think Aioi should waive the
cancellation and box fees given that Miss O has provided evidence to support her account
she wouldnt have been visiting the other address much after this time.
I appreciate Miss O has since shared some sensitive personal information about her
circumstances and why she didnt want to change her address. I was really sorry to read
about this. But my role here is to look at whether Aioi acted fairly, and Im satisfied that at the
time it made its decision to cancel the policy it didnt have this information. So this isnt
something I would take into account here when assessing if the cancellation was fair.
Taking everything into account, I also think Aioi should pay Miss O £250 compensation for
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim and cancelling her policy.
Miss O was clearly upset and she then had to spend time raising this with Aioi  something
she wouldnt have had to do had it carried out more of an investigation into the claim and her 
overnight address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aioi didnt make any further comment following my provisional decision. 
Miss O had some questions. In particular:
What happens if her father is listed as the driver for this incident  would this be listed 
as a fault claim?
How does she get the money back for the higher premiums shes had to pay other 
insurers since the policy was cancelled. 
Miss O also stressed that to her knowledge no accident actually happened. She confirmed 
she was happy with everything else in my provisional decision.
I responded to Miss Os questions at the time, but for clarity I will also address the key points 
here. My provisional decision was that the claim should be recorded as bonus allowed, so 
non-fault, whoever is listed as the driver. Miss O can also ask her new insurers to recalculate her premiums in light of the changes I will direct. CUE can be checked by the new insurers 
to confirm the claim is now bonus allowed. And the letter I have said Aioi should provide, 
confirming the cancellation wasnt Miss Os fault, can also be shared with new insurers. 
If either of these factors has led to an increase in the premiums Miss O has been asked to 
pay the new insurers can then recalculate these and refund any additional costs.
I understand why Miss O has stressed again that she doesnt think an accident happened. 
But my role here isnt to make a finding on whether the accident happened but to look at 
whether Aioi has acted reasonably when investigating the claim. For all of the reasons 
outlined above, I dont think it has, so I then need to try and put Miss O back into the position 
I think she would have been in had mistakes not been made. As outlined above its difficult 
to say what would have happened had Aioi carried out the enquiries Id have expected it to. 
Aioi has paid out on a claim and it has to accurately record how much it paid out on the 
insurance database  this is how CUE works. So I think the fairest thing I can do here is to 
direct it to show that this claim wasnt Miss Os fault.
Taking everything into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance  
Company of Europe SE to:
Amend the claim on CUE from bonus disallowed to bonus allowed.
Amend the claim on CUE, removing Miss O as the driver.
Contact Miss Os father to confirm if he disputes being the driver for this claim, if he 
does not then list him as the driver. If he does, Aioi should attempt to gather accounts 
from both G and Miss Os father directly and then make a decision about who it 
thinks is most likely to have been driving based on the available evidence.
Record Miss Os policy as cancelled by her.
Provide Miss O with a letter confirming the cancellation of her policy was not her 
fault.
Waive all debt associated with the cancellation and the claim.
Pay Miss O £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman