DRN-2942468
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined 
a claim under its business protection insurance policy after it was impacted by Covid-19. 
Mr M, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. T is also represented bringing 
this complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of being those of 
T.
For ease of reading, reference to Covea also includes its agents. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. It claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Covea said Ts claim wasnt covered by the policy because, although the policy included an 
extension for infectious diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy.
When Covea continued to refuse to pay Ts claim, T brought its complaint to us. It said the 
wording of the policy wasnt clear and therefore should be read in Ts favour as covering 
Covid-19, which is an infectious disease. In particular, T didnt think using a capital letter for 
the word Disease was enough to show that the extension didnt cover any infectious 
disease. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
the policy covered business interruption as a result of a specified list of diseases but that 
didnt include Covid-19. He thought the policy clearly specified that words with a capital letter 
had a specific definition in the policy, so he didnt think the way the policy was drafted meant 
Ts claim should be paid.
T asked for an ombudsman to review its complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ts business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.
The relevant part of the extension for infectious diseases says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) 
manifested by any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of 
the Premises
The policy provides a definition for the term Disease. Using a capital letter to show that a 
word in a policy has a specific meaning isnt unusual. The definitions section  which 
includes the definition for disease - is clearly set out at the beginning of the business 
interruption section of the policy and says:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear 
with an upper case letter except where otherwise stated
I therefore, think its clear that Covea intended the extension to cover the diseases listed 
within the definition and Covid-19 isnt on that list. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ts policy is not like this  rather it sets out a 
defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease. 
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the 
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are 
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease. So based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that these two diseases are the 
same and therefore this doesnt cover Ts claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome T was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Ts claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman