DRN-3901556
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
following a claim he made on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out a car insurance policy with Admiral in November 2021. The policy booklet 
explained that in the event of a claim We will decide how to settle your claim If we give 
you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle. 
The policy booklet defined Market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately 
before the loss happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was 
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
In August 2022 Mr D reported his car stolen. Admiral accepted Mr Ds claim and provided a 
value of £5,737 as the market value for his car. This was subsequently increased to £5,956. 
Mr D was unhappy with this amount and complained to Admiral. Mr D made several calls to 
Admiral asking them to respond, however he experienced difficulty speaking to a 
representative because of long queue waiting times. 
Mr D brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He was unhappy with the market 
value offered by Admiral, and also with the level of service provided when hed tried to 
contact them. 
During our investigation, Admiral offered to increase the market value to £6,540. Admiral 
agreed to pay Mr D the difference between this amount and the previous offer of £5,956, 
plus interest of £11.47 on this amount. Admiral also recognised the service theyd provided 
wasnt in line with their usual service standards. Admiral offered an additional £185 in 
recognition of the difficulty Mr D had experienced in trying to speak to someone during busy 
periods, the cost of calls made to Admiral, and the distress caused to Mr D by the level of 
service provided. The total additional amount paid by bank transfer was £780.47. 
The investigator found that the service provided by Admiral fell short of what wed expect, 
but thought the calculation of the market value of Mr Ds car for £6,540 was in line with our 
approach, and the additional compensation offered for the poor level of service was also 
reasonable. The investigator didnt recommend any further compensation. Mr D didnt agree. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
D but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Market valuation 
The crux of Mr Ds complaint concerns the market value offered by Admiral for his car. Mr D 
says I did my research online and for me to replace my stolen car with an exact same model 
would cost between £9000-£10000. I can appreciate the disappointment caused to Mr D as 
it is clear that he has spent a great deal of time researching the value of his car based on 
similar makes and models sold through car dealerships. 
We can only ask Admiral to do more to put things right if we find that theyve done something 
wrong, and not done enough to put things right. So Ive looked at the trade guides that we 
would usually refer to when dealing with complaints about market valuation. 
Trade guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling 
prices. They use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices 
wouldve been. We expect insurers to use trade guides when valuing a car for claims 
purposes. Based on the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, I think its fair that Admiral used 
the trade guides here. 
Weve checked the four trade valuation guides Admiral used to find out selling prices of a car 
of a similar make and model to Mr Ds, with a mileage of 64,952. The values returned from 
these guides show- £6,300 (CAP), £6,517 (Cazoo), £6,540 (Glasss), and £6,733 (Auto 
Trader). The average value of these four values returned is £6,522.50.
The valuation offered by Admiral is £6,540 (using the valuation returned by Glasss). This is 
higher than the average market valuation using the four trade guides. Because of this, I think 
Admirals decision on the valuation to pay Mr D for his car is fair. So I wont be asking it to 
reconsider this. 
Mr D has also provided evidence of work undertaken on his car, including the supply and fit 
of front brake pads and discs, electric wing mirror unit, and clutch kit and release bearing, 
amongst other work. I dont doubt Mr D has taken great time and care in maintaining his car 
to a roadworthy standard. However I agree with Admirals position that this work is more 
reflective of the general maintenance of a car- rather than work which would materially affect 
the market value. For this reason its reasonable that Admiral have not made an adjustment 
for this work when determining the market value of Mr Ds car. 
Calls to Admiral/ claim delay/ loss of earnings
Its not disputed that Admiral couldve done more to provide Mr D with a better level of 
customer service. I am persuaded by what Mr D has explained about the numerous attempts 
to contact Admiral, and the difficulty in speaking to a representative about his claim.  
Mr D has referenced loss of earnings as part of the impact on him as a result of the delay in 
Admiral dealing with his claim. But I havent seen any evidence determine the financial loss 
suffered by Mr D because of this. I have considered whether evidence of any loss of 
earnings suffered by Mr D would materially impact this decision. Admiral shouldve paid the market value of £6,540 sooner. If theyd done this, Mr D wouldve 
had £584 more to spend on buying a new car. But I cant say the £584 difference wouldve 
substantially impacted Mr Ds ability to buy the car he was looking for. This is because even 
if Mr D had been provided with the market value of £6,540 (which is the value that shouldve 
been offered initially), Mr D wouldnt have been able to buy the make and model he says he 
needed for work, as he has explained this would cost £9000-£10000.
Ive already determined the valuation offered of £6,540 is in line with our approach. So I cant 
hold Admiral responsible for Mr D not receiving a higher amount that wouldve prevented the 
loss of earnings he has referenced. Because of this I havent considered loss of earnings 
when determining what compensation Admiral should reasonably pay. 
When thinking about the impact on Mr D because of the delay in dealing with his claim, and 
difficulty in reaching Admiral, I think the £185 offered by Admiral amount in line with what 
wed recommend in the circumstances. Its clear Mr D tried to contact Admiral to sort things 
but he wasnt able to reach them. 
Although I think Admiral couldve provided a better level of service, I think theyve done 
enough to put things right with the compensation paid of £185. This considers the calls made 
to Admiral, and the upset caused by Admirals lack of timely response. So I wont be asking 
Admiral to pay anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer to settle the complaint is fair and reasonable. So I wont be 
directing Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman