DRN-4362742
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) restricted and then closed his 
account after it received a fraud claim for funds paid into it. Mr S adds the funds were 
legitimately his for services he carried out and they should be returned to him.  
What happened
Mr S received two credits totalling £5,500 into his Nationwide account on 7 May 2022. A 
short while later, Nationwide received claims from the sending bank that these were paid to 
Mr S fraudulently.  
Nationwide blocked Mr S account and asked him to provide it with evidence to show his 
entitlement to the funds. In broad terms, he was asked to provide evidence of 
communication between himself and the third-party, any invoices or sales receipts, and 
anything else he felt supported and showed his entitlement to the funds.
Mr S explained that the payments were made to him for adult services he had provided to 
the third-party after meeting him in town. He sent a copy of the third-partys driving licence 
which he says shows this was a legitimate transaction. Mr S says the third-party has now 
blocked his telephone number, so he isnt able to contact them. 
Nationwide looked into Mr S complaint. In its response, and in summary, it said: 
- Mr S received two credits totalling £5,500 into his account on 7 May 2022. 
Nationwide received communication from the remitting bank raising concerns about 
the payments, so it opened a fraud claim and investigation 
- Mr S told Nationwide the funds were received for services hed provided to the 
remitter. Nationwide asked Mr S to provide evidence of this, but it didnt receive what 
it had asked for 
- Nationwide has decided to close Mr S account with immediate effect 
Nationwide then wrote to Mr S to inform him it was closing his account with immediate effect. 
Nationwide also explained that as it had not been able to determine Mr S entitlement to any 
remaining balance, this will not be returned to him. 
Unhappy, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, 
and in short, they found: 
- Nationwide didnt act unfairly when blocking Mr S account. It has legal and 
regulatory obligations to meet
- Nationwide asked Mr S to provide evidence to show his entitlement to the funds. But 
Mr S didnt give Nationwide the information it requested.  Because of this, Nationwide 
have acted fairly by not releasing any funds  
- Nationwide applied the terms of the account fairly when deciding to close it with 
immediate effect 
- If Mr S provides the information Nationwide requested from him, it should release any 
funds it currently holds in his account 
- Mr S was concerned Nationwides actions have affected his credit score. But as he 
hasnt provided a credit report, theyre not able to say this is the case
Mr S didnt agree with what our Investigator said and reiterates the funds were for service he 
legitimately provided. As Mr S didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr S, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks and Building Societies in the UK, like Nationwide, are strictly regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Nationwide has explained to Mr S that it received fraudulent claims from a third-party bank 
for funds he had received. Given the severity of this and the concerns it raises, Im satisfied 
Nationwide followed its legal and regulatory obligations when restricting the account. 
I would then expect Nationwide to carry out sufficient due diligence and an investigation to 
determine whether Mr S was entitled to the funds in dispute. I note Mr S says the funds were 
made up of two payments for services he had provided to the remitter after meeting him in 
town.  
Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied Nationwide asking Mr S to provide evidence of 
any communication between himself and the third-party, any invoices or sales receipts, and 
anything else he felt supported and showed his entitlement to the funds is fair and 
reasonable. Mr S provided a copy of a driving licence and screenshots of messages he says 
shows he has been blocked by the remitter following their report of fraud. 
At this juncture, I think its important to note that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from regulated firms as confidential for a number of 
reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Nationwide has provided is information that we 
consider should be kept confidential.
Considering all the information Ive seen, Im persuaded Mr S hasnt given Nationwide, nor 
this service, enough information to show he was entitled to the funds. Mr S was provided 
with instructions on what he would need to give Nationwide, and he hasnt been able to do 
this. So I dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong by not releasing any funds to 
Mr S held in the account. It also appears Mr S doesnt have any wages or benefits paid into 
the account  so this isnt something I need to consider here.
Id also add that given the value of the transactions, Id expect to see much stronger 
evidence than that which Mr S has provided to show he was entitled to them. Nationwide is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Nationwide closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Nationwide and Mr S had to comply with, 
say that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. Having looked at the 
information given to me by both parties, Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled to the close the 
account in the way it has. 
Its possible this matter has caused Mr S some difficulty. But having looked at whats 
happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Nationwide given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it 
closed Mr S account. 
So Im not going to ask Nationwide to compensate Mr S for any trouble and upset this may 
have caused.
Lastly, Mr S says hes not been able to open up another account. Mr S hasnt complained 
about this, and if he thinks its because of something Nationwide has done, then he may 
choose to ask it to look into this separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman