DRN-1329007
 
The complaint
Ms T complains she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in May 1994 when she took out a charge card.
A third party sold the PPI to Ms T. But Allianz Insurance Plc as the insurer has accepted 
responsibility for this sale and by extension this complaint. For the purposes of this 
decision Ive referred throughout to Allianz.
What happened
Ms T bought the policy in May 1994 at the same time as taking out a charge card by 
completing an application form in a store.
Ms T says she asked about PPI and a store employee said to her that she was more likely to 
get the charge card if she opted to buy it on the application form.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint because:
           I think Allianz made Ms T aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because the application form that was more likely used at the time of sale would 
have required Ms T to tick a box on the application form to say that she wanted the cover 
and add her name in the same section.  
           Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms T so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did need to ensure that it provided her with clear information about the policy 
so that she could make an informed choice about whether to have it. 
           Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think better information would have put Ms T off from having 
the policy. I say this because although Ms T had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay as 
well as £3000 in savings at the time of sale, I think she would have benefited from having the 
cover in a time of need especially over an extended period. It is unlikely Ms T would have 
been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. The policy was competitively 
priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
her buying it.In conclusion, I couldnt find a reason to uphold Ms Ts complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms T's complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman