DRN-3131019
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly declined her claim for a refund of 
ATM withdrawals she says she didnt receive.
What happened
Mrs R says she attempted to withdraw cash from an ATM at Tesco supermarket on 14 
December 2019 at 3pm. She says she tried to withdraw £200, but that was rejected, so she 
tried the next ATM, but that also rejected her attempt to withdraw £200. She made one final 
attempt to withdraw £100, which was also rejected. 
Mrs R says she made one final attempt, at which point the ATM displayed a message telling 
her to contact her bank urgently. She then made a small purchase at a shop to check her 
card was working, which was successful. However, when she later checked her account, 
she saw that £500 had left her account and that the withdrawals were showing as a single 
transaction, instead of three separate transactions. 
Lloyds credited Mrs Rs account with £500 while it investigated the dispute. But when it 
completed its investigation, it reversed the refund saying the ATM reports showed the ATM 
balance was correct, and that £500 had been successfully withdrawn.
Mrs R didnt accept what Lloyds said, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint though. He said the evidence Lloyds had provided 
showed that Mrs Rs account had been debited £500 in one withdrawal at 2pm on the same 
day, but not the 3 transactions (totalling £500) at 3pm Mrs R disputed. And that Lloyds had 
shown the ATM balanced, and that it had correctly dispensed.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she cant have withdrawn £500 at 2pm, because she was at 
home then. And that she relies on friends for transport as she has difficulty walking. Our 
investigators opinion didnt change, so the case came to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
While I have no reason to doubt what Mrs R has told our service, I have to consider the 
evidence before me. And the evidence doesnt show Mrs R was charged for transactions 
she disputes.
Mrs R says she made 3 consecutive ATM withdrawal attempts of £200, £200 then £100 at 
Tesco supermarket. But the audit reports Lloyds has provided shows the three withdrawals 
Mrs R describes were made at Sainsburys supermarket, and that Mrs R wasnt charged for 
those transactions. 
I have considered the possibility that the audit reports are wrong as to the time and location 
of the withdrawals. Mrs R is adamant that she wasnt at an ATM at 2pm and she has 
explained why she cant have been, owing to her mobility issues. However, Mrs Rs 
statement shows a single withdrawal of £500, and not 3 separate withdrawals totalling £500. 
Bank statements itemise each transaction individually and dont aggregate several 
transactions, even if they are close together chronologically, geographically or are of the 
same type (i.e. ATM withdrawals).
So, if Mrs R had been charged for the 3 transactions she disputes, they would appear 
separately on her statement. But that isnt the case and I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Lloyds audit reports and statements are incorrect. Mrs R has asked for CCTV 
footage to be reviewed, but owing to the time that has passed, any CCTV footage is no 
longer available. So Ive based my decision on the evidence that is available and quite 
simply I cant ask Lloyds to refund the 3 transactions Mrs R disputes because they werent 
debited from Mrs Rs account.
Mrs R was, though, charged for a single withdrawal of £500 an hour earlier at Tesco 
supermarket. So Ive looked to see whether or not Lloyds should have to refund that 
transaction. 
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mrs R liable for transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not she made or authorised the transactions herself. Ive reviewed the 
banks technical evidence, and Im satisfied that Mrs Rs genuine card details were used to 
make the withdrawal. While this alone isnt enough in itself to say Mrs R carried out the 
transaction, from the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not the withdrawal was 
either carried out by Mrs R, or with her consent. 
While Mrs R has said she was at home when the single £500 withdrawal took place, Lloyds 
has provided me with two reports (as well as account statements) that show a £500 
withdrawal took place before the three Mrs R disputes. So, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that that withdrawal did take place. 
Because Mrs R says that cant have been her, Ive looked to see if it could have been carried 
out by someone else, without Mrs Rs consent. The cash withdrawal would, of course, have 
required Mrs Rs card to be present and her correct PIN to be entered. 
I asked Mrs R if anyone else could have got hold of her card or accessed her PIN. She said 
she was the only one who had access to her card on that day and that she has never 
disclosed her PIN to anyone else. With that being the case, I cant reasonably conclude that 
that transaction was carried out by a third party, without Mrs Rs authorisation. The 
withdrawal couldnt have taken place without the card and PIN, and Mrs Rs testimony 
doesnt explain how anyone other than herself could have had the card and PIN.
That there was an earlier withdrawal of £500 also ties in with Mrs Rs later failed 
withdrawals. Mrs Rs daily cash withdrawal limit was £500, so any further attempts beyond 
that would have been rejected, which explains why Mrs Rs withdrawal attempts of £200, 
£200 and £100 failed.
In summary, Im not asking Lloyds to reimburse Mrs R the 3 withdrawals she disputes, 
because Im not persuaded she was charged for them. And on the balance of probabilities, I 
think its more likely than not that the earlier £500 withdrawal was made either by Mrs R, or 
someone else with her permission.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman