DRN-2700739
The complaint
Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A. didnt give them a full refund of the premium they paid for a single-trip 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J had a travel insurance policy, and the insurer was Mapfre. They took 
out the policy on 16 January 2020, and it covered them for a single trip between 24 July 
2020 and 16 August 2020  which they booked shortly before taking out the policy. They 
paid £210 for the policy, and it included cover for some medical conditions Mr J and Mrs J 
had declared. The policy also included a double excess.
Mr J says that a few weeks before they were due to fly, there was a change in the 
government travel advice due to Covid-19 which meant that they couldnt travel, so he called 
to cancel the policy. The policy was cancelled on 9 July 2020, and Mapfre refunded 80% of 
the premium  so £168. Mapfre considers this to be fair and reasonable because it 
administered the policy to the point of cancellation, and it provided cover for cancellation 
risks. Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J say they should receive a full refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, she thought the 80% refund Mapfre 
had given was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. There are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
Under these rules, customers normally have 14 days to cancel their policy without penalty 
and without giving any reason. But the insurer wouldve still been entitled to apply a 
reasonable pro-rata charge for the time on cover. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs Js policy said that if the policy was 
cancelled within 14 days, a refund would be given. But if the policy was cancelled after that 
time, no premium refund would be made. So, Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs Js cancellation rights 
under the contract of insurance are more favourable to them than is required by industry 
rules.
Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J cancelled the policy after the 14-day period. This means I dont think 
they are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of the contract 
they had with Mapfre. 
But Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J bought the policy on 16 January 2020 for a trip that was due to start 
on 24 July 2020. Under the terms of the policy, cover under the cancellation section of the 
policy started at the time Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J booked their trip or paid the insurance 
premium, whichever was later. In other words, this is when Mapfre accepted the risk of a 
valid claim occurring under the policy. So, Mapfre covered the risk of cancellation from 
16 January 2020 onwards.
I accept that Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. And this meant that Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J werent 
able to go ahead with their planned trip. But I dont think this made it impossible for their 
contract with Mapfre to be performed.
This is because the policy didnt just provide cover for the dates of travel. The price set by 
Mapfre also covered Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J if they needed to cancel their trip. So, the 
premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel the trip due to any number of 
listed events insured under the policy. And in the circumstances of this complaint, Mapfre 
was covering the risk of Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J making a successful claim on the policy from 
16 January 2020 until 9 July 2020.
After 9 July 2020 Mapfre didnt bear any risk under the policy anymore. Mrs H, Mr J and 
Mrs J couldnt go ahead with their planned trip due to changes in the government travel 
advice, and as far as I understand, Mapfre hadnt paid a claim in relation to this. In other 
words, Mapfre was no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made under the policy.
Mapfre has told us how the premiums paid on the type of policy that Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J 
had were split at around 45% to 55% of the premium relating to pre-travel cancellation cover, 
and the rest was for cover while travelling. As our investigator explained, an insurer is 
entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
a variety of factors  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Mapfre has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied Mapfre has demonstrated theres a material 
unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that Mapfre hasnt 
treated Mrs H, Mr J or Mrs J unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances.
In the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19 global pandemic, I 
think the offer Mapfre has paid to refund 80% of the premium Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs J paid for 
their policy is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think theres anything else 
Mapfre needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs H, Mr J and Mrs Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, Mr J and 
Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman