DRN-3515451
The complaint and what happened
Mr F complains Wise Payments Limited wont reimburse money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr F invested with Inquot Investing Group. He sent €5,000 in July 2020 to SLV 
PARTS. He subsequently became aware he had been scammed and asked Wise to 
reimburse his transaction. 
Wise declined to reimburse any funds as it wasnt possible for it to know Mr F was 
being scammed at the time, and as the payments were sent four months prior to the 
issue being raised there was no chance of recovery. 
Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that as Wise is an 
electronic money issuer, set up with the purpose of sending and receiving money, 
including internationally, the payments wouldnt have looked unusual. 
Mr F asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In doing so, he has made 
reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and the guidance at BSI 
PAS 2017 17271, amongst others, and that Wise should have done more to protect 
him from the risk of fraud.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with terms and conditions, authorised payment 
instructions should be executed without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even where they are duped 
into making it. There is no dispute that Mr F made the payment and so it was 
authorised. 
Wise is an electronic money issuer (EMI), not a bank or building society, so its 
questionable whether the provisions of the BSI guidance Mr F refers to are applicable 
to it. But even if they are, Im not persuaded Wise ought to have intervened in the 
payment made. 
EMIs are set up with the purpose of sending and receiving money, including 
internationally and in different currencies. And often that will be for large sums. So a 
customer using their account to send Euros wouldnt be unusual. And having looked 
at other transactions Mr F made, I dont find the amount to have been so unusual, 
that it ought to have triggered Wises fraud alerts. I accept the payment was to a new 
payee, but again that is a feature of an EMI  that money is regularly sent to new 
payees. Overall, Im not persuaded the payment was of a nature that I think Wise 
ought to have intervened. And Im not aware there was any interaction between Wise 
and Mr F at the time, where any concerns were expressed that would lead me to 
conclude Wise ought to have paused the payment and asked Mr F about it. 
Mr F has referred to the CRM and that this should be applicable. However, the CRM 
only applies between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts and so isnt 
applicable to the transaction in question. And the other guidance Mr F has referred to 
is taken into account when reaching our outcomes even if not expressly mentioned. 
I understand Mr F has lost money, and its unfortunate hes fallen victim to a scam. 
But as I dont find Wise ought to have done anything more when executing his 
payment request, I find no basis on which to ask it to reimburse Mr Fs losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman