DRN-3436449
The complaint
Mr D complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced his loans.
 
What happened
Mr D took four loans between October 2019 and May 2021. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 24/10/2019 16/06/2020 34 £20.00
2 £300.00 16/06/2020 13/11/2020 34 £15.00
3 £700.00 16/06/2020 29/01/2021 53 £24.50
4 £500.00 06/05/2021 outstanding 35 £25.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Mr Ds weekly commitment was £39.50. 
Based on Morses statement of account, an outstanding balance remains due for loan 4. 
Morses considered Mr Ds complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses investigated 
the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to provide these loans and 
so it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr Ds representative didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and his 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in January 2022. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think Morses made an 
unreasonable decision to lend loans 1 and 2. But, he did think loans 3 and 4 ought to not 
have been provided because, in the adjudicators view the portion of Mr Ds income that 
would have to be used to make the repayments was too high and therefore the loans were 
likely to be unsustainable. 
Mr Ds representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment but no further 
comments were provided. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold the complaint. Ive 
summarised its response below. 
While loans 2 and 3 were lent on the same date, the appropriate checks were carried 
out. 
Morses doesnt consider the portion of income Mr D would need to use to repay 
these loans to be excessive. 
Loan 3 was settled early which doesnt suggest financial difficulties. 
There is a three-month break in lending between Mr D repaying loan 3 and taking 
loan 4. 
The income for loan 4 was confirmed through a check with a credit reference agency. 
Morses was made aware of Mr Ds change in circumstances from September 2021 
and in November 2021 Mr D told it that he would repay the loan in full. 
The adjudicator went back to Morses to explain why these comments hadnt changed his 
mind about the outcome he had reached. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
It seems, that Mr Ds representative hasnt disagreed with the outcome that the adjudicator 
reached  so I dont think there is any ongoing dispute about loans 1 and 2. As a result I 
wont be making a finding about these loans
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses was right (or wrong) to have granted Mr D 
loans 3 and 4. 
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ds income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
For loan three Mr D declared that his weekly income remained the same at £270 and his 
declared weekly expenditure was £112. Leaving just over £158 to a week to afford the 
combined loan repayments of £25 per week. 
Morses says for loans 3 and 4 it also carried out an income verification check, which it has 
explained that Mr Ds income was checked with a credit reference agency to check its 
accurate. Although based on the spreadsheet provided by Morses there is no salary or 
benefits (such as a pension) recorded for either of these loans.
Whereas for loan 1, Morses has recorded that Mr D was in receipt of benefits and it saw 
some evidence of this. Its worth saying again that Morses hasnt provided the information 
that it saw or provided details of the type of benefit that was provided. Given, what has been 
recorded for loan 1, I think its highly likely, that during the course of this lending relationship 
Mr D was in receipt of some benefits. 
In addition, the information provided by Morses shows some of the expenditure information 
in my view wasnt likely to be accurate. For example, for loan 3 he declared his weekly other 
credit expenditure was only £1  this doesnt seem plausible to me as I am not sure what 
sort of credit Mr D wouldve had that had a monthly repayment of £4.
In addition, for loan 3 Mr D declared he had council tax payments but then had nothing when 
loan 4 was approved, despite there being no obvious change in circumstances. Again, in my 
view this doesnt quite add up. 
However, notwithstanding my concerns about some of the information that Morses collected, 
considering the information Mr D provided about his income and expenditure, Morses may 
have felt, these loans were pounds and pence affordable because this is what the 
information showed. But as Ive explained above, that is only part of what Morses had to 
consider before granting these loans. Having looked at everything, Im upholding Mr Ds 
complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Loan 3 was taken the same day that loan 2 was taken out. These loans were for difference 
amounts and for different repayment terms 34 and 53 weeks. So, Mr D was making a 
significant commitment to Morses to pay nearly £40 per week for at least the next 34 weeks, 
which was the period where these loans overlapped. Although, for loan 4, there was a small 
break, he then was again making another commitment for another 35 weeks of £25. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Mr D was committed to spending 
15% of his income when loan 3 was advanced and 13% for loan three. In my view these 
payments in this case were too high when considering what it knew about 
Mr Ds circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mr D wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Mr D wouldve been able to sustainably meet his repayments for these loans.  I say this because Mr D was making a total commitment to pay Morses for at least another 
34 weeks for each loan and I think its fair to say that Mr Ds income was modest and 
potentially made up solely of benefits. On top of that, Ive already pointed out some concerns 
I have about what Mr D had declared for his outgoings.  
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Mr D had a modest income which was likely made up 
from benefits that funds couldnt be lent to him but what Morses needed to do is appreciate 
that taking into account the commitments that he had to it and over the time period was in 
my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loans 
were sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that. 
In addition, while I can see the three-month gap between loans 3 and 4, I dont think that 
makes a difference to the outcome that Im reaching. I say this because, the information 
Morses was given as part of the application process did show, in my view that this loan was 
unlikely to be sustainable for him. 
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Ive 
outlined below what Morses needed to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses shouldnt have given Mr D loans 3 and 4.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr D having 
made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr D. 
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint in part. 
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr D as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman