DRN-3822812
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Reliance Mutual, now Utmost Life and Pensions 
Limited (Utmost) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W approached Reliance in 1993 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Reliance 
completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances, this showed that:
He was aged 29 and living with his partner, they had a dependent child aged five. 
He had taken redundancy in late 1992 and was currently unemployed. As far as I can 
see their only source of income at the time was benefits. 
He and his partner owned their own home which had a value of around £30,000.
They had a mortgage of £10,000 with 18 years left to run. He had a small amount of 
other debt. 
Other than an endowment attached to the mortgage, Mr W had no savings or 
investments. 
I cant see that Reliance carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk. 
In July 1993 Reliance advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. 
The reasons why it did this were recorded at the point of sale. These werent personalised 
but were indicated by ticks in boxes. The aims selected were: 
Personal control of pension benefits.
Flexibility of retirement date.
Flexibility in type of benefits.
Flexibility of pension escalation.
Willing to lose the guarantees of his DB scheme in exchange for potentially higher 
benefits.
The adviser noted Mr Ws DB scheme benefits were to be transferred to a personal pension 
to provide potentially better retirement benefits and that when work and finances permitted 
Mr W would pay into this pension plan. Mr W hadnt decided when he wanted to retire but 
later selected age 60. 
Mr W had around 12 years of deferred benefits in his DB scheme and it was estimated that it 
would provide an annual pension of around £18,000 per year ant Mr Ws retirement. The DB 
scheme provided a transfer value of around £19,700. Mr W transferred this amount and 
invested the proceeds in a personal pension using a managed fund. 
Mr W complained in 2020 to Utmost about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
said:
Reliance didnt properly complete a fact find or establish his attitude to risk, so it 
wasnt fully aware of his situation.
It didnt properly explain the transfer process or how the funds would be invested. It 
didnt explain what he would be giving up when he made the transfer. 
Because of these factors, he didnt think the advice was suitable for him. 
Utmost didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Its responses to the complaint have concentrated on 
whether the complaint was brought in time. In summary its said that:
It wrote to Mr W in 1999 about the pension review, but these letters didnt reach 
Mr W as he had not informed it of his new address. 
It had done all it should have in respect of the personal pension review, so it didnt 
need to review the sale again. 
It also thought that Mr W had brought his complaint too late. This is because he 
complained later than six years of when the transfer took place and later than three 
years of when he ought reasonably to have been aware he could complain. 
Utmost thought Mr W should have been aware he could complain at the completion 
of the personal pension review in 2003. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked into it. She firstly 
considered the jurisdiction of the complaint and she thought that the complaint was brought 
in time. This is because Mr W wasnt aware that he could complain until very recently. And 
as he didnt receive the pension review letters, and there were no other reasons that would 
have made him aware, he wouldnt have been reasonably aware he could complaint earlier. 
The investigator went on to say that Utmost did not have to perform a personal pension 
review. Ive noted that Mr W and his representative initially did not agree with this. But they 
havent disagreed with the investigators subsequent opinion about the merits of the 
complaint. 
Our investigator went on to consider the suitability of the sale of the DB transfer. She upheld 
the complaint and recommended Utmost pay compensation. She said, given what was 
known about Mr W circumstances, the DB transfer represented a significant risk for him. She 
didnt think it was suitable that Mr W take this risk. Whilst it was noted that Mr W wanted 
control or flexibility of his benefits there was no detail as to why this was, it wasnt clear if 
they were his genuine aims or not. 
Utmost hasnt agreed and still thinks that it shouldnt have to look at this sale again given 
what it did in respect of the pension review. Ive clarified to Utmost that the complaint is 
within our jurisdiction, and that this is my final decision about the merits of the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
The advice was provided by Utmost in 1993. At this time Reliance, as Utmost was then 
known, was a member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation 
(LAUTRO). The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in Mr Ws best 
interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr W with this in mind.
The Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction to consider this complaint
As I said above one of our investigators said that the complaint was brought within time and I 
agree with this. Ive contacted Utmost to explain why, and it had nothing further to add to 
what I said. 
But for the avoidance of doubt I agree that Utmost doesnt have to perform a full pension 
review. This was an exercise that was designed to be performed once and so its not the 
right outcome to revisit this here. But Ive gone on to consider the suitability of the sale 
below. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here. The investment 
return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at retirement was shown to 
be 10.37% per year. 
This compares with the upper limit the regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test of 11% 
per year for 30 years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle projection rate was 10.75%, and the lower 
projection rate was 8.5%.
The critical yield is very close to the upper limit for financial viability, and it is around the 
middle or medium of the regulators projections. And the managed fund used would usually 
be considered to have a risk of around medium. 
So given all of this, it seems reasonable to say that Mr W would need to take a medium risk 
to match his DB scheme benefits. But there was no point if Mr W transferring to receive the 
same benefits as he could receive this without taking a risk. So he really needed, to make 
this worthwhile, to be investing at a higher risk than this. Ive looked to see if it was clear that 
he wanted to do this at the point of sale. 
The evidence that Utmost has provided doesnt show that it assessed Mr Ws attitude and 
capacity for risk at all. So, as a starting point, it couldnt make a suitable recommendation as 
it wasnt aware of how much risk Mr W could take with his pension planning. It certainly isnt 
clear that he wanted to take the above average risk that he needed to here.   And looking at his circumstances I cant see that is likely that he wanted to take a significant 
degree of risk at all. He didnt have any investment experience other than his mortgage 
endowment. He was currently unemployed and had been for a reasonable length of time. 
This was Mr Ws only private pension so far and so it was significant for him. All of this points 
to a lower tolerance and capacity to risk in respect of his pension planning than he needed to 
take here. 
Whilst Mr W invested in a managed fund, which is usually regarded to have a risk of around 
medium there was no explanation of the risk of the fund and how it fitted Mr Ws 
circumstances. 
I've taken all of this into account and having done so I think Mr was likely to receive benefits 
of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with a lower attitude to risk.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think its demonstrated that Mr W required flexibility in retirement. This is because 
based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think had a genuine need to access his tax-free 
cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later 
date. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
And I also cant see any evidence that Mr W had a strong need for variable income 
throughout his retirement. Again, this doesnt seem to have been looked at. 
Mr W was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income. This could have formed a strong 
income foundation for him in retirement and be a useful addition to his state retirement 
provision. It could have helped him meet his income needs when he retired.
In fact, whilst Mr W ticked a box to say that he wanted flexibility of various forms in 
retirement there is no indication that this was anything other than a generic nice to have. 
There is no consideration of what income he wanted in retirement or how this flexibility would 
fit his circumstances. 
This is perhaps not surprising given that, Mr W was only 29 at the time of the advice, and 
based on what Ive seen he didnt have concrete retirement plans. He was undecided as yet 
about the date he wanted to retire at. As Mr W had around 30 to 35 years before he could 
think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr W to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would be. 
If Mr W later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Control of pension benefits
I think Mr Ws stated want for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr W was 
not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr W  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Utmost recommended that Mr W invest in a managed fund. Ive said above that Im not 
persuaded that his attitude to risk was medium so this may not have been the best fit for 
him. But leaving this aside as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out 
of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr W should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the personal pension 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and that he may receive higher benefits through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Utmost wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Utmost shouldve advised Mr W to remain in the DB scheme. Of course, I have to 
consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against Utmost's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Utmosts advice. I say this because Mr W was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision so far. So, if Utmost had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of 
the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that any concerns or needs that Mr W may have had were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If Utmost had explained that Mr W could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr W would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
Our Investigator recommended that Utmost also pay Mr W £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr W has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
In light of the above, I think Utmost should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Suitability of investments
Utmost recommended that Mr W invest in a managed fund. Ive said above that Im not 
persuaded that his attitude to risk was medium so this may not have been the best fit for him. But leaving this aside as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out 
of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr W should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the personal pension 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and that he may receive higher benefits through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Utmost wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Utmost shouldve advised Mr W to remain in the DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against Utmost's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Utmosts advice. I say this because Mr W was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision so far. So, if Utmost had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of 
the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that any concerns or needs that Mr W may have had were so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If Utmost had explained that Mr W could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr W would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
Our Investigator recommended that Utmost also pay Mr W £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr W has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
In light of the above, I think Utmost should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Utmosts unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance or rules. I consider its fair 
that Utmost calculates Mr Ws redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
Mr W, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised them 
to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy statement, 
Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr W.
Utmost must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Mr W plans to retire at age 65. So, compensation should be based on him taking 
benefits at this age.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Utmost has 
received notification of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Utmost to pay Mr W.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Mr W deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Utmost should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Utmost should also pay Mr W £300. Utmost doesnt have to wait for the new guidance to 
come into force to pay this.  
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Utmost Life and 
Pensions to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Utmost Life and Pensions to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Utmost 
Life and Pensions to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Utmost Life and Pensions pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Utmost Life and 
Pensions.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman