DRN-3358338
The complaint
Mrs H complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mrs H fell victim to a scam when purchasing what she thought was a legitimate 
car. 
Mrs H identified the car through a well-known online website. Mrs H says that she had 
extensive communications with the seller and carried out checks on the car also. The car 
was to be delivered to Mrs H by a transport / delivery company  whom Ill refer to as 
Company A. 
Mrs H signed an agreement with Company A on 4 May 2017. The agreement was also 
signed by the supposed seller of the car and by Company A. Upon payment to Company A, 
the car would be delivered to Mrs H and she would then have three days to inspect / drive 
the car. If Mrs H was unhappy with the car or it was not as advertised, the agreement stated 
that she would be refunded by Company A.
On 5 May 2017, Mrs H made a payment for the purchase of the car, she paid £6,950 
through her online banking. She believed this was to an escrow account which held the 
funds.
Unfortunately this was a very sophisticated scam. There was no car for sale and 
Company A, whom Mrs H thought she was dealing with, was in fact a clone of a genuine 
transport company. So Mrs H had sadly paid money to fraudsters. 
Mrs H uncovered the scam several days later when the car wasnt delivered.
At the time, Mrs H says she contacted HSBC to try and recover the money, but ultimately no 
money was recovered from the receiving bank account (the account used by the fraudsters).
Mrs H formally complained to HSBC about the matter in February 2021. She said that she 
had taken every precaution before proceeding to make the payment for the car, taking the 
time to discuss it and had also carried out a number of different authentication checks.
Mrs H said the payment was unusual given her account activity and considered, in line with 
HSBCs own Safeguard Service policy and alongside other relevant law and regulations, it 
should have done more to contact her about the payment and advised her that her actions 
were indicative of fraud. Mrs H says this would have changed everything and would have 
prevented her falling victim to fraud.
 
HSBC investigated the matter and provided its response on 10 March 2021. It declined 
refunding Mrs H the money she had lost. It explained that it has a fraud detection system in 
place  but that it also has to tread a fine line between detecting fraudulent activity and 
preventing customers from accessing their money. It also explained that it could not offer a 
more detailed explanation as it considered it could compromise the security of its fraud 
detection systems.
Within HSBCs letter it advised Mrs H that she could refer the matter to our service if she 
remained unhappy. Mrs H subsequently brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
agreed the amount Mrs H was paying was unusual and out of character for her and HSBC 
should have contacted her about the payment. But they also considered had HSBC 
intervened at the time, then it was likely  based on the checks Mrs H had already carried 
out, to satisfy herself that everything was genuine   HSBC would have been satisfied that 
Mrs H wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
They also felt HSBC couldnt have reasonably done anymore to try and recover the funds 
from the beneficiary bank.
Mrs H disagreed and provided her responses on the matter. In short, Mrs H remained of the 
opinion that HSBC had failed in its duty of care as it hadnt contacted her. Mrs H remained 
strongly of the opinion that a call from HSBC would have alerted her to the potential risk of 
financial loss and she wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
As Mrs H disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this and Ive 
thoroughly reviewed all of Mrs Hs correspondence and HSBCs. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether HSBC should 
have done more to prevent Mrs Hs losses. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Mrs H was a victim of a sophisticated 
cruel scam and has lost a significant amount of money. But in weighing everything up, 
including the testimony Mrs H has provided about what happened and what she considers 
she would have done had HSBC called her about the payment, I dont think I can fairly say 
HSBC should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mrs H authorised the payment / transfer that is in dispute  and thats 
accepted by all parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which are the 
relevant regulations in place here) that means Mrs H is responsible for them. 
That remains the case even though Mrs H was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
But that isnt the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (some of which Mrs H has made reference to in her 
submissions) and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
What does this mean for Mrs H?
Given the above, Ive looked to see first, whether Mrs Hs transaction was unusual and out 
character. And second, whether HSBC should have stepped in and intervened  so taking 
some additional steps or checks with Mrs H about the payment. But, and importantly, I have 
to determine whether these additional checks or steps would have put HSBC on notice that 
something might not be right, and that Mrs H may be at risk of financial harm or revealed the 
scam.
Mrs H set up and transferred £6,950 to a new payee. HSBC confirmed that the transfer 
didnt flag on its fraud detection system. Having looked at Mrs Hs account history, she 
hadnt made a payment / transfer of that size. So, considering this and that the payment was 
to a new payee, I do think that the transaction was unusual and out of character for her and I 
would reasonably have expected HSBC to have taken additional steps or made additional 
checks before executing the transfer.However, and as mentioned above, with any intervention, I need to determine whether that 
intervention should have given HSBC cause for concern that Mrs H may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask.
HSBC should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial harm.
And, in these circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to expect these checks to include
questions about the purpose of the payment, which would have identified that Mrs H was 
purchasing a car. And then from there, HSBC would need to satisfy itself that everything was 
ok with the transaction. It could broadly do this by asking whether Mrs H had seen the car 
she was buying in person, whether she had done any checks into the cars history and 
whether she had done any checks into the company she was sending the money to and who 
were delivering the car to her.
And when considering the questions HSBC could have likely asked, it is also important for 
me to acknowledge that at the time, Mrs H had absolutely no idea that she was falling victim 
to a scam which was extremely sophisticated in its nature. And Mrs H, prior to making the 
transfer, had carried out a significant amount of checks on the seller, the car and 
Company A who were responsible for delivering the car (and who were in fact a clone of a 
genuine firm). Below is some of Mrs Hs testimony in relation to the actions she took before 
proceeding with the payment: 
In addition to extensive communications with the seller of the car, I carried out 
various independent background checks to make as sure as I could be that the sale 
was legitimate, and that any payment would be safe and secure. Over a period of 
several days, I conducted various kinds of due diligence to validate the dealer's 
credentials and the car they were selling. I studied a lengthy and detailed feedback 
history of the seller (including dozens of reviews) and I checked with Google Maps to 
ensure that the given address of the seller was authentic. All of this due diligence 
helped me to build up sufficient confidence in both the seller and the car.
Checks on the vehicle included a vehicle history check for accidents, theft and 
outstanding finance, a separate MOT check, a check for the road fund licence, a 
Google check using the vehicle registration number, a reverse image check and a 
check of other [models] with similar mileage and specification. Checks on the dealer 
included the Companies House website, Google Street-view for the address, and the 
100% positive feedback about the seller
  
So having carefully considered the above, alongside that at the time Mrs H had no idea that 
she was falling victim to a scam  then to my mind, and on the balance of probabilities, Im 
satisfied that even if HSBC had carried out further checks and asked questions like those 
Ive mentioned, I think it would have been satisfied by Mrs Hs answers. I dont think theres 
anything further HSBC could reasonably have asked, or suggested Mrs H do, that would 
have uncovered the scam. While Mrs H had not seen the car in person, given it was far 
away, Im mindful she had carried out checks on the company delivering the car. Mrs H 
didnt have any concerns here (as unfortunately it had been cloned), and Mrs H was also 
happy that the vehicle was going to be delivered. Mrs H had also signed an agreement 
which had given Mrs H peace of mind at the time that she could return the car if she wasnt 
happy with it.I understand Mrs Hs point, when she says that there is no way of knowing what would have 
happened during a call  because no call was made to her by HSBC. And that she says a 
call from HSBC about the payment would have been enough in itself. However, I have to 
consider, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely to have happened than 
not, had HSBC called like I think it ought to have done. And in this case, I think it is more 
likely than not that as Mrs H was fully convinced that everything was legitimate and had 
carried out extensive checks on the seller, the car and Company A, then she would have  
at the time  provided answers to any questions HSBC may have asked, which I think 
would fairly and reasonably have satisfied it and not given it cause to be concerned that she 
may have been at risk of financial harm. 
I know Mrs H feels very strongly that if she received any call from HSBC it would have 
changed things for her. But for the reasons given above, I cant be as satisfied as I would 
need to be to say this would have been the case. 
Overall and in summary, it is my judgement that had HSBC called Mrs H about the 
payment, then I consider it is more likely than not that Mrs H would have answered any 
questions and in doing so would have satisfied HSBC that she wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. I dont consider the scam would have been uncovered, given the sophistication of the 
scam and the due diligence and checks Mrs H had already carried out. 
I appreciate how Mrs H feels about this case and that this will come as a disappointment to 
her. And Im also not suggesting that she did anything wrong herself. She has simply been 
the victim of a very sophisticated scam. But I dont think it would be fair to say any further 
action HSBC could reasonably have taken would have prevented the scam. And so I dont 
think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the £6,950 payment she lost. 
Ive also looked at whether HSBC took reasonable steps to try to recover the money once it 
was told about the scam. Given Mrs H discovered the scam five days after having made the 
payment, unfortunately no funds were able to be recovered from the receiving bank 
account. Scammers usually remove funds immediately to avoid the possibility of them being 
recovered. So I dont think HSBC could have done anything further to get the money back 
at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman