DRN-3153417
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) wont reimburse 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some of the key events. 
Mr W responded to a pop-up advertisement he saw online for a binary options broker, who 
Ill refer to as M. He says M promised a significant growth on invested funds and was 
endorsed by trusted celebrities. Between May and July 2018, Mr W made several payments 
towards what he believed was a legitimate investment. Relevant to this complaint are three 
payments totalling over £7,700 (inclusive of transaction fees) that were made in June 2018 
and July 2018 using his Tesco Bank Mastercard credit card. These payments were made to 
two merchants P and F.
A few days after making the final disputed payment Mr W realised hed likely fallen victim to 
a scam. He contacted Tesco Bank for assistance in recovering his funds. Tesco Bank 
informed Mr W it was bound by Mastercards scheme rules and couldnt dispute the 
transactions as they were made to fund a trading account. Mr W unsuccessfully appealed 
this and later raised a complaint. During this time Mr W continued to email M requesting that 
it close his trading account and return his funds. 
Tesco Bank responded. It explained due to the nature of the transactions there were no 
chargeback rights available under Mastercards scheme rules. And the criteria required to 
establish a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 had not been met.
Unhappy with its response Mr W referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think Tesco Bank had acted unfairly when concluding Mr W didnt have 
a valid chargeback or section 75 claim. Mr W disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.  
Chargeback
Im sorry to hear Mr W has lost so much money and for the impact the incident has 
personally had on him. I appreciate he is unhappy with how Tesco Bank handled his dispute. 
I know that he doesnt think that hes been treated fairly because another financial business 
hed made payments to M through has handled matters differently, and these payments 
have been refunded. So I understand why he feels strongly that Tesco Bank ought to have 
asked for evidence that hed been unable to withdraw his funds; the terms and conditions 
hed agree to; and should have raised his chargeback claims. I note Mr W believes M 
wouldnt have defended them and he wouldve received back the sum he has lost. However, 
firstly depending on the particular card scheme, different rules and considerations will apply. 
And secondly, to be clear, my role here isnt to second guess the outcome had a claim been 
raised. It is to simply decide in the specific circumstances of this case, whether Tesco Bank 
acted fairly and reasonably when declining to raise the chargeback claims. 
I think it would be helpful if I start by explaining that chargeback is a voluntary scheme. 
There is no right to a chargeback. It is for the regulated card issuer (here Tesco Bank) to 
decide if it has a basis upon which it can raise a chargeback claim. Tesco Bank are bound 
by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. It is Mastercard  not 
Tesco Bank, who will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if 
it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to 
the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
As Ive mentioned above our role in such cases is not to second-guess Mastercards 
arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether Tesco Bank acted fairly and 
reasonably when choosing not to present (or presenting) a chargeback claim on behalf of its 
cardholder (here Mr W).
I recognise Mr W is upset that when he approached Tesco Bank it presumed, he was 
gambling and refused to raise chargeback claims on his behalf. He says its conduct was 
dismissive. However, there is limited protection under the Mastercard scheme rules if a 
cardholder authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in gambling, 
investment or similar services. Our service has clarified this with Mastercard directly. It 
explained that, issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, 
unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting 
from the use of such chips or value. 
In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction to load funds into 
the gambling or investment account and not what activities are subsequently done with the 
funds. So whilst I appreciate Mr W feels strongly that Tesco Bank ought to have asked him 
to provide evidence of the terms and conditions of his trading account with M and that hed 
tried to withdraw the funds, unsuccessfully. As the scheme rules do not permit such claims, I 
dont think Tesco Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably by not asking Mr W for these.    
The only chargeback route available in such circumstances is limited to if the merchant does 
not make available on its platform funds transferred to it. Our Investigator concluded that this 
was not the nature of Mr Ws claim. His claim is that M is operating fraudulently and wouldnt 
allow him to withdraw his funds. So she couldnt say that Tesco Bank has treated Mr W 
unfairly by not raising a chargeback. Mr W says that was not the only context of his claim. He has said throughout that the whole 
investment opportunity was a set-up from the start, the trading platform was not real, it was a 
simulation and he did not receive what hed been contracted to receive. He argues that he 
does have grounds for a chargeback claim under Mastercards scheme rules as his funds 
were never in fact made available on the trading platform. Im sympathetic to his situation, 
but ultimately alleging that there was no real trading account is essentially saying that M 
were operating a scam. And this isnt something that the Mastercard chargeback scheme 
provides a dispute resolution process for. Further, Mastercard have confirmed to this service 
that all that would be required to defend a chargeback claim would be documentation 
showing available funds on the trading platform. I take on board the point Mr W makes that 
this was fictitious. But this documentation would satisfy the evidence required under 
Mastercards scheme rules to show that the payments were loaded and would typically 
remedy the chargeback. 
But given, ultimately, Mr Ws claim is that hes fallen victim to a scam I dont think 
Tesco Banks conclusions that his chargeback claims didnt have a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding is unreasonable. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr W says it can be argued that there has been a breach of contract by M. In that it 
purported: 
- To provide a trading platform 
- To provide opportunity to access funds after deposit 
- To segregate funds so that individual client funds can be identified 
Ive considered what Mr W has said. However, section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue 
a like claim for a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as they 
would have against the supplier of goods or services. For a section 75 claim to apply there 
are a number of criteria that need to be met, one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement between the parties. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ws credit card statement which shows three payments totalling over 
£7,700 (inclusive of transaction fees). Mr W was therefore responsible for repaying the 
amount owed to his credit card provider and so he is the debtor. As Mr Ws Tesco Bank 
credit card was used to make these payments, Tesco Bank was the creditor. And from 
everything Ive seen it is clear M was the supplier. However, the payments Mr W disputes 
werent made to M  they were made to P and F.  
For Mr Ws claim to be covered under the joint liability provision of section 75 I would need to 
see evidence that would satisfy me that P and F were a party to the contract between Mr W 
and M as there is no right under section 75 to pursue a like claim against a third party (such 
as P and F) who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. 
Ive not seen any evidence linking P and F to the supplier  M, so it follows that Mr W 
doesnt have the required DCS agreement in place to make a section 75 claim. So I cant 
fairly say Tesco Bank ought to have done more under section 75.Intervention
Tesco Bank does have a duty to protect customers against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud. So for completeness Ive also thought about whether I think it couldve reasonably 
done anything more to prevent Mr Ws loss at the time the payments were processed. And I 
dont think it could have. Looking at Mr Ws prior account conduct and the payments in 
question, I dont think these would have stood out to Tesco Bank as being suspicious and/or 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic where Id have expected it to intervene. 
I realise Mr W feels that Fs name ought to have given rise to concern that the firm was 
fraudulent. However, from what Ive seen F is a legitimate firm, so there wouldnt have been 
a reason for Tesco Bank to have intervened at the time the payments were processed. If 
anything, it might have been a relevant consideration if I think Tesco Bank had a reason to 
intervene  but as I cant say it did, for the reasons given above I dont think Tesco Bank 
couldve reasonably prevented Mr Ws loss.
I understand Mr W will be very disappointed with my conclusions however, for the reasons 
Ive outlined above I cant fairly ask Tesco Bank to refund his loss and I wont be asking it to 
do anything further here.
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ws loss my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman