DRN-2814752
The complaint
  This complaint is about two mortgage applications that Ms H and Mr R made to Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. The applications were linked; a re-mortgage of an existing property onto a 
buy-to-let basis to raise a deposit for a new house, and a residential mortgage on the new 
house. 
The mortgage offers had to be issued several times, partly due to omissions on Barclays 
part, and partly due to incompatibility between the mortgage products their broker had 
applied for. Barclays also gave misleading information to Ms H and Mr Rs solicitor about 
redeeming the existing mortgage. Had it given clearer information, Ms H and Mr R would 
have realised sooner than they did that there was a significant shortfall of funds to 
complete the transaction. They ended up using savings earmarked for other purposes to 
repay the existing mortgage.
Barclays paid £300 compensation but Ms H and Mr R didnt think it was enough. Our 
investigator agreed, and recommended Barclays pay £500. Barclays has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process; not least 
because there is another party in the transaction - ie the broker that arranged the mortgages 
for Ms H and Mr R. 
This complaint is about what Barclays did or didnt do; Ive no brief to consider the actions of 
the broker; but responsibility for ensuring Ms H and Mr R had enough money to complete 
their purchase lay with the broker rather than Barclays. Its entirely a matter for Ms H and 
Mr R whether they pursue a separate complaint with the broker, and nothing I say here 
should be taken as a recommendation that they should complain, or as pre-judging the 
outcome of any such complaint, if made.
Its common ground that Barclays made mistakes; thats why it offered Ms H and Mr R £300 
compensation. So this isnt a case where I have to decide fault; rather, its case where I have 
to decide fair redress. In asking for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. Barclays has 
said that increasing the compensation has the effect of holding it solely to blame for what 
went wrong. I assure Barclays thats not the case; its simply that I consider that £500, rather 
than £300, better reflects Barclays contribution to what went wrong.
If the errors in the mortgage offers had been all that Barclays had done, then Id probably 
regard £300 as broadly fair. However, whilst Barclays didnt create the shortfall of funds, the 
extra £200 is to compensate Ms H and M for the shortcomings in the information Barclays 
gave their solicitor about repaying the existing mortgage. This delayed the realisation that 
there was a shortfall of funds and increased the stress and pressure on Ms H and Mr R to 
find a solution.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay Ms H and Mr R £500 compensation. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman