DRN-4201329
The complaint
Mrs M complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) refused to pay 
her claim and asked for additional premiums after she made a claim under her pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with CGI; and did so online. Mrs M made a 
claim after her dog fell ill. CGI said that when Mrs M applied for her policy, she answered the 
question about her dogs breed incorrectly. They considered this entitled them to charge her 
the additional premium she would have paid had she answered the question correctly, and 
that they wouldnt settle her claim until this was paid. Mrs M was unhappy with this and 
brought her complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator felt Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She explained Mrs M could have 
taken more care when applying for her policy. However, she didnt think CGI had provided 
enough evidence to show they would have offered Mrs M a policy on different terms had she 
answered the question about her dogs breed differently. Following this, CGI said they felt 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 applied, and as such 
Mrs M was only entitled to a proportionate settlement.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind as she felt CGI hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate it would have charged Mrs M a higher premium had she 
answered the question correctly. CGI disagreed with our Investigator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2023. In this, I explained I was minded to uphold 
this complaint because I didnt consider I could safely conclude Mrs M hadnt taken 
reasonable care when she declared the breed of her dog. Both parties had until 
20 June 2023 to provide any further points and/or evidence they wanted me to consider.
Both parties accepted my decision. CGI confirmed they would consider the claims for splenic 
mass and vomiting and diarrhoea, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, my 
decision has remained the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint  but for different reasons to 
our Investigator. Ill explain my reasoning below.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets 
out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable 
care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. CGI thinks Mrs M failed 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she stated in her policy 
application that her dog was a Mongrel.
CGI hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mrs Ms completed application. However, they 
have sent me screenshots of the question Mrs M was asked, and the information that would 
have been available to help her answer it.
Ive seen that when completing the question regarding the type of breed, Mrs M could click 
for guidance if she was unsure of how to answer the question. Had she done that, the 
website would have said:
A breed is a dog or cat whose parents are of the same breed.
A cross breed is a dog or cat whose parents are of two different breeds, please choose the 
most dominant breed of your pet. If your pet is a Mongrel the breed will be unknown. If you 
are unsure the breed of your pet please call
Mrs M says when she adopted her dog, the charity advised her to insure him as a Mongrel, 
so she followed that guidance. Ive noted CGI consider Mrs Ms dog was a German Pointer 
because that is what was detailed on the claim form. However, the claim form wasnt 
completed by Mrs M  it was completed by her vet. So, Im satisfied Mrs Ms understanding 
about her dogs breed has been consistent.
While CGI appear to have relied on the information provided on the claim form, Ive been 
unable to ignore the fact that one claim form describes the breed as German Pointer/Mix 
and on another the same is written, but it looks like mix is crossed out. Ive also noticed 
that throughout the many documents sent from the vet to CGI, the breed was listed as a 
Cross Breed, German Pointer or the breed wasnt listed at all.
Following my involvement CGI has argued that vets have a responsibility to keep accurate 
records. And this isnt something Im disputing. However, I consider CGI also have a 
responsibility to ensure they have all the information they need to reach fair and reasonable 
outcomes when considering claims. But, from what Ive seen, I consider CGI had enough 
conflicting information to warrant them asking further questions of Mrs M and/or her vet 
before determining that her dog was a German Pointer. Had they done so, they would have 
received information from the vet (that Ive received during my investigations) confirming 
their systems listed the breed as a Cross Breed.
The evidence suggests a mistake was made by Mrs Ms vet when submitting evidence to 
support her claim. I appreciate CGI should have been sent accurate information, but I dont 
consider it would be fair to hold Mrs M responsible for this  especially considering CGI 
could have done more to seek clarification before finalising their decision on Mrs Ms claim.
Unfortunately, Mrs Ms dog has now passed away, so there is no way for his breed to be 
conclusively determined. But based on what Ive seen, I dont consider it would be fair to 
treat Mrs Ms claim as if he was a German Pointer.The key point is whether Mrs M failed to take reasonable care when she gave the breed of 
her pet. Given the above, Im not minded to agree that Mrs M misrepresented the breed of 
her dog when taking out her policy. As such, while CGI has now sent further evidence to 
demonstrate the premiums they would have charged if the dog was a German Pointer, 
I dont consider a proportionate settlement is a fair or reasonable way to settle Mrs Ms 
claim. If there hasnt been a misrepresentation then the remedies set out in CIDRA dont 
apply. 
Having reviewed everything, I consider Mrs Ms claim should be settled in full unless there 
are any other policy exclusions that apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im minded to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should settle 
Mrs Ms claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy.
If Mrs M has already settled the bill with her vet, CGI should reimburse Mrs M and pay her 
simple interest at 8% a year, from the dates she made payment to the vet until the date it is 
refunded.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs M how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman