DRN-2036467
The complaint
Miss N complains that Skipton Building Society made a mistake when setting up her ISA. As 
a result, she wasnt able to provide proof of funds and her offer on a property was rejected. 
Shed like compensation for this and for the initial mistake.
What happened
Miss N opened a lifetime ISA with Skipton in March 2019 and paid in a cheque for £4,000. In 
September 2019 she saw a house she wanted to buy. The agent asked her to provide proof 
of deposit but when Miss N checked her ISA account she found it had a nil balance.
Skipton investigated and found that due to an internal error, the cheque for £4,000 paid in by 
Miss N had been wrongly allocated to another account. It corrected the mistake that day and 
confirmed this in writing on 10 October. 
However, Miss N says that because she couldnt provide proof of funds for the deposit, the 
agent wouldnt take the house off the market and it was sold elsewhere.  Shes also unhappy 
that, as Skipton hadnt paid the deposit into her ISA in March, she hadnt had the £1,000 
HMRC bonus she should have had. Miss N feels Skipton should compensate her for this, for 
the loss of the house she wanted to buy and for the error it made in allocating the initial 
deposit for this account.  Miss N also complained that Skipton hadnt made her aware of the 
HMRC rules on withdrawals and the penalty shed have to pay.
Skipton agreed thered be a delay in Miss N receiving the £1,000 bonus because of the 
delay in crediting her account with the initial funds. However, under the HMRC rules, there 
was a 25% penalty on any withdrawal within the first twelve months so if shed taken money 
out of this ISA before March 2020, she would only have received £3,750 of the £5,000 even 
if the bonus had been paid. However, it accepted it had made a mistake with the initial 
deposit. It offered to make up the account to ensure that if Miss N closed it within the first 
twelve months, shed receive the £3,750 she would have had if the account had been set up 
properly. It also offered £250 compensation to bring the balance up to £4,000, the amount of 
the initial deposit. It said this would put Miss N back in the position she would have been in if 
the mistake hadnt happened.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed Skipton had made a mistake with 
the initial deposit It was clear this had been very stressful for Miss N. However, Skipton had 
put this right as soon as it became aware and had also offered to make up the account to the 
amount Miss N would have received if shed made a withdrawal at that time plus a further 
£250 compensation. He felt this was fair. And he couldnt agree that Skipton hadnt 
explained the HMRC rules on early withdrawals as this had been set out in the terms and 
conditions for the account which Miss N had signed before the ISA was opened. He felt this 
was reasonable.
Hed taken into account what Miss N had said about the impact on the house she intended 
to buy. However, as Skipton had explained, shed only have been able to withdraw £3,750 at 
that time even if the account had been set up correctly. This was less than the £5,000 she 
needed proof of funds for so he couldnt agree Skipton was responsible for the purchase not 
going ahead.
Miss N disagreed and said shed contacted Skipton 4 October for proof that she had funds 
available for the deposit of £4,300 but because she couldnt provide that the house had been 
sold elsewhere. She felt the compensation offered didnt take into account the stress and 
upset and asked for it to be increased to £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no information on any particular issue - or the information available is 
incomplete or disputed - Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other 
words whats more likely than not to have happened taking into account all the 
circumstances of this case.
Skipton has accepted it made a mistake in setting up the ISA so the question is whether the 
steps it has taken to put matters right are sufficient for the impact of this mistake on Miss N.
When a bank makes an error its the normal practice of this service to require the bank to put 
their customer back into the financial position that they would have been in if the error had 
not been made. In considering what financial loss has occurred, we take the view that the 
bank is only liable for losses that were reasonably foreseeable at the time that the error was 
made.
In this case Skipton offered to make up the funds in Miss Ns Isa to the actual amount shed 
have actual been able to withdraw in October 2019 if the account had been set up properly. I 
think that was a fair offer. Miss N however says this doesnt take into account that because 
she couldnt show she had the funds for the deposit, her offer on the house she wanted 
wasnt accepted. 
Miss Ns provided a letter from the estate agents saying the purchase fell through because 
she couldnt show proof of funds but unfortunately this doesnt offer any details of when the 
offer was rejected - and whether this was before or after the ISA was updated. 
The internal notes for Miss Ns account show Miss N raised her query about the ISA on 4 
October.  Skipton carried out an internal investigation which identified the problem and the 
correction to Miss Ns ISA was done that afternoon.  It tried, unsuccessfully, to contact Miss 
N that day to let her know but it did speak with her on Monday, 7 October, to explain what 
had happened and confirm that the funds had now been credited to her ISA.  
Ive seen Miss N first told Skipton on 10 October that her house purchase might fall through 
because she couldnt show she had an available deposit of £5,000. By this time, however, 
the mistake had been put right and Skipton had written to Miss N to confirm this.  In her 
submissions Miss N has said she only needed £4,300 not £5,000 but although this is a lower 
amount, its still more than Miss N could have withdrawn. The HMRC rules are clear that if 
Miss N had taken funds out at that time shed have had to pay a 25% penalty with the result 
that even without the initial mistake, shed only have had available funds of £3,750, a 
shortfall of £550. 
Ive every sympathy for the situation Miss N was in at this time. It seems there were several 
interested purchasers and Miss Ns situation was further complicated by the mistake with her 
ISA. However, in the circumstances, I cant be satisfied, even on the balance of probabilities, 
that it was the error with Miss Ns ISA that caused her offer, ultimately, to be rejected.Ive seen Skipton offered to make up the account so that if Miss N decided to close it or 
make a withdrawal shed have been in the position she should have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened. I think that was reasonable. Since then events have moved on. The ISA 
has now been open for more than twelve months so the HMRC penalty for an early 
withdrawal wont apply. However, the offer of £250 compensation is still open. I realise that 
Miss N feels this isnt enough but taking into account that the issue was resolved quickly 
once Skipton was made aware and that I havent seen evidence of an actual financial loss, I 
consider that it is reasonable. For that reason, I wont be asking Skipton to pay anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman