DRN-3098257
The complaint
Mr C and Miss H complain Nationwide Building Society wouldnt agree to them porting their 
mortgage and they had to pay an early repayment charge when they moved their mortgage 
to another lender.
What happened
Miss H had an existing mortgage with Nationwide. In 2020 she and Mr C applied to add Mr C 
to the mortgage and to borrow an additional amount to buy outright their shared ownership 
property. They thought that would make it easier to sell. Mr C and Miss H were planning to 
move in due course, and they thought theyd be able to port their mortgage when they did. 
Mr C and Miss H took a new mortgage with a fixed interest rate product with Nationwide in 
around August 2020.
Mr C and Miss H found a property they wanted to move to and applied to port their mortgage 
product and for additional borrowing in around October 2020. Nationwide issued a decision 
in principle to lend them £250,000. Mr C and Miss H then applied for a slightly higher amount 
and another decision in principle was issued. But Nationwides policy about accepting 
income paid under the Covid-19 furlough scheme had changed by the time Nationwide were 
considering their application. When they saw Mr C was being paid in that way, they declined 
the application on grounds it wasnt affordable.
Mr C and Miss H successfully applied for a mortgage from another lender but had to pay an 
early repayment charge (ERC) to Nationwide. They felt Nationwide had treated them unfairly 
and complained. They wanted Nationwide to waive the ERC. Nationwide didnt uphold their 
complaint, so Mr C and Miss H brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Nationwide were entitled to set their lending criteria and had 
declined Mr C and Miss Hs application fairly. He didnt think Nationwide should repay the 
ERC. Since Mr C and Miss H werent happy that our investigator hadnt upheld their 
complaint, its been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Miss H say theyd always planned to stay with Nationwide and port their mortgage. 
They say if theyd known Covid-19 and furlough would lead to problems with Nationwide 
lending to them, they wouldnt have fixed their interest rate with Nationwide, as they knew 
then they wanted to move within two years. 
Mr C and Miss H complain Nationwide didnt tell them theyd changed their lending criteria 
until theyd sent in some financial information as part of their application. They dont think 
Nationwide acted fairly and say other lenders were more helpful. Fortunately, another lender 
was able to offer Mr C and Miss H the mortgage they needed to go ahead with the move to 
the property they wanted. But they felt Nationwide should repay the ERC of around £2,500.
Nationwide say Mr C and Miss H discussed their mortgage requirements with one of 
Nationwides mortgage consultants in April 2020. They say Ms C and Miss H told the adviser 
they wanted to move in around two years, rather than within two years as Mr C and Miss H 
have now said. Nationwide also say Mr C and Miss H discussed both tracker interest rates 
and fixed interest rates before opting for the fixed interest rate product. 
Miss H says she understood at the time the mortgage was sold to her and Mr C that theyd 
be able to port the mortgage in the future. Miss H had had a tracker rate with her previous 
mortgage. And shes said she and Mr C opted for the fixed interest rate because it was more 
advantageous. On balance, it seems more likely than not Miss H at least was aware a 
tracker would have given them more flexibility to move their mortgage without incurring an 
ERC than the fixed interest rate product did. But, even if she and Mr C didnt understand 
that, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of their complaint, as Ill explain.
The mortgage offer Nationwide issued in August 2020 set out in terms that I think were clear, 
fair and not misleading, as Id expect them to be, that an ERC would be payable if the 
mortgage was redeemed within two years of taking out the fixed interest rate product. 
The mortgage offer also made it clear that the mortgage product could be ported to another 
property provided Mr C and Miss H met Nationwides lending criteria at the time of the 
application to port.
So, I think Mr C and Miss H had sufficiently clear information for them to know if they wanted 
to move their mortgage product to a new property, theyd need to meet Nationwides lending 
criteria at the time and, if they didnt, and their application was turned down, theyd be liable 
to pay the ERC.
Nationwide were right to assess whether the new mortgage would be affordable for Mr C 
and Miss H in line with the relevant rules about mortgage lending. Unfortunately, since Mr C 
was receiving furlough payments, and Nationwide had decided not to accept furlough pay 
when considering the affordability of the mortgage, their application wasnt accepted. 
I acknowledge the Covid-19 pandemic was unforeseen and impacted Mr C and Miss Hs 
ability to borrow from Nationwide. But Nationwide was entitled to make changes to its 
lending criteria and to reassess its risks of lending in light of the pandemic. So, I dont think 
Nationwides decision to decline to lend based on their adjusted criteria was unreasonable, 
even if other lenders werent taking the same approach about accepting furlough income in 
assessing affordability.
Miss H has argued that since the pandemic led to Nationwides change in policy, and the 
pandemic was an unforeseen event which impacted both parties to this complaint, it would 
be fair for Nationwide to pay back at least some of the ERC. She argues Nationwide is 
making money out of them by charging the ERC. I understand Miss H feels strongly it isnt 
fair for Nationwide to keep the ERC, but I dont agree. 
When a lender provides a mortgage, it first has to have raised the money to lend, usually 
through the money markets or from funds its savers have deposited with the lender. A lender 
also has to hold certain levels of capital depending on the level and risk of debt they are 
exposed to. All these things generally come at a cost. A lender recovers those costs, along 
with some profit, by charging interest on the mortgages it provides. Where a lender gives a 
fixed interest rate, the lender budgets to recover its costs over the fixed rate period. Nationwide will have expected to recover their funding costs in lending to Mr C and Miss H 
over the two-year fixed interest rate period of the mortgage product they took out. Since their 
mortgage ended early, Nationwide werent able to recover their budgeted costs in full. But Mr 
C and Miss H were able to get out of the mortgage in return for covering those costs  by 
paying the ERC. ERCs are allowed for in the mortgage rules set by the regulator and are 
standard across the mortgage industry. 
As Ive mentioned, if Nationwide paid back the ERC or part of it, they wouldnt be able to 
recover all their budgeted costs of lending to Mr C and Miss H. I dont think that would be fair 
in the circumstances of Mr C and Miss Hs complaint. I appreciate they wanted to move. 
They went ahead with that, with a mortgage from another lender, knowing theyd have to pay 
the ERC. That was their choice, so I dont think they can reasonably expect Nationwide to 
repay it.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr C and Miss H, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman