DRN-1621790
 
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In March 1998 Mr C and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Nationwide. They met with a 
representative from Nationwide in one of its branches and during the meeting were sold PPI. 
The policy covered Mr C only against accidents, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He was concerned 
that the policy wouldnt pay out for the first 90 days if Mr C and Mrs C needed to make a 
claim. As Mr C and Mrs C didnt have anything in the way of savings and sick pay, he 
thought they would struggle to pay their mortgage during the first 90 days and if they were 
given clearer information on this, they wouldnt have agreed to have the policy.
Nationwide didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said it disclosed sufficient information 
on the policy through sales documentation given at the time and it was up to Mr C and Mrs C 
to make an informed decision on whether they wanted the policy. 
As both parties still do not agree on this complaint, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and will explain why
There was a 90-day deferred period in the PPI policy sold to Mr C and Mrs C, during which 
Mr C (the sole policy holder) wouldnt get any money if he needed to make a claim. I can see 
that they have said Mr C didnt have any sick pay or savings to rely on. I think Mr C and Mrs 
C might have struggled to pay their mortgage for that 90-day period if Mr C was made 
unemployed or couldnt work because he was sick. 
The purpose of the policy was to provide peace of mind that their mortgage repayments 
would be met in the event Mr C was unable to work. Given the 90-day deferred period, they 
would have struggled with three-months of mortgage payments and potentially gone into 
arrears, possibly with negative information added to their credit files, before the policy began 
to pay out.I can see from the information provided that Nationwide didnt give a recommendation to Mr 
C and Mrs C and so it needed to ensure that it provided clear information to them but I cant 
say for sure that it did. Nationwide says that Mr C and Mrs C would have been given an 
MPPI leaflet (it has pointed to a leaflet dated April 1997 as the one most likely used) and this 
form would have clearly disclosed the deferred period, set out on page 10. But I cant be 
sure what was said in the meeting between the parties about this or that Mr C and Mrs C 
were given the time to read it carefully so that they could understand what the deferred 
period meant before they chose to have the MPPI policy. I also am not persuaded the term 
was given any prominence in the leaflet.
In conclusion, I think Nationwide should have clearly disclosed the terms given about the 
deferred period and from looking at the information provided and for the reasons given I 
cannot say that it did. I think this would have made a difference to Mr C and Mrs Cs decision 
about whether to take out the policy or not .If the deferred period had been made clear, 
I think this would have made the policy less attractive, to the point they wouldnt have taken 
it out. So I think it was mis-sold.
what Nationwide should do to put things right
Nationwide should put Mr C and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out the MPPI. Nationwide should:
 
Pay Mr C and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr C and Mrs C made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Nationwide can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr C and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should pay Mr C and Mrs C compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman