DRN-2914491
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK plc wont pay her the balance showing in her passbook.
Mrs N is represented by Mr N.
What happened
Mrs N had a Branch Saver account with Santander (formerly Abbey National). The account 
was opened in January 2006. Mrs N says there is a balance of £3,000 showing in the 
passbook. The last entry in the passbook is dated February 2006. She visited a branch of 
Santander and asked it to update her passbook. It told her it could not trace her account.
Mrs N queried this further with Santander. It wrote to her in February 2020 and told her that 
her account had been closed in August 2009. Because it only held records for six years, it 
said it couldnt provide her with a statement showing the closure of the account. Mrs N 
wasnt satisfied with this. She was convinced she hadnt closed the account. She 
complained to our service.
Santander investigated her complaint. It said that because the account had been closed 
more than six years ago and it was more than three years since Mrs N ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the issue, our service couldnt look into her complaint. Our investigator 
thought about what Santander said. She said that Mrs N had only become aware of the 
issue when she visited the branch and was told the account was closed. That complaint had 
been referred to our service within the time limits set out in our Rules. Santander agreed that 
we could look into the complaint  but it didnt change its view that the complaint should not 
be upheld.
Santander said that its records showed the account had been closed. It said an account 
could be closed without the passbook, provided the account holder met its identification 
requirements. It also said it wasnt required to keep records for more than six years.
Our investigator looked into what Santander said. She thought the passbook wasnt 
evidence that the account still existed. She said Santander had produced evidence from its 
records which showed that the account was closed in 2009. It had also confirmed that the 
account wasnt on its dormant account list  that was a list of inactive accounts where there 
was still a balance. Our investigator said it wasnt always necessary to produce the 
passbook to close an account. This applied where for example the account holder had 
misplaced the passbook. She also didnt think it was unfair for Santander to delete its 
records for closed accounts after six years.
Mrs N didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Santander has produced evidence from its records to show that this 
account was opened on 18 January 2006. That accords with the information in the passbook 
Mrs N has shown to us. Santanders records also show that the account was closed on 17 
August 2009. The last entry in Mrs Ns passbook is dated 2 February 2006 and it shows a 
balance of £3,000. So, the passbook doesnt show that the account was closed.
As our investigator said, it isnt always necessary to produce the passbook to make a 
withdrawal from an account. Sometimes a passbook can be lost or misplaced. The account 
holder is still entitled to ask for the balance in the account to be paid out. In these 
circumstances the bank needs to have a procedure in place to ensure that it is paying the 
money in the account to the correct person. Santander says that it has procedures for this 
type of eventuality. It asks for identification to be produced. It says thats what wouldve 
happened in 2009.
So, because of the procedures Santander has described to us, Im satisfied that the balance 
appearing in Mrs Ns passbook isnt conclusive evidence that there were not subsequent 
entries or that the account wasnt closed.
Santander says it only keeps certain records  such as account statements and withdrawal 
authorisations - for a restricted period of time. I can understand why it wouldnt be able to 
keep this type of record indefinitely. And, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
it told Mrs N it couldnt provide her with a copy of the closing statement for the account  
which it says happened in 2009  or details about payments made after February 2006.
Santander has kept records of account opening and closing dates. And it has provided that 
evidence to show the account was closed in 2009. If the account was still open or had been 
made dormant I wouldve expected to see it appearing on Santanders records. Santander 
has confirmed its not recorded on its dormant account register. A dormant account is an 
inactive account  but where there is still a balance outstanding.
I can understand why Mrs N feels strongly that Santander should pay her the balance 
recorded in her passbook, but having considered everything here, Im satisfied, on balance, 
that the account was closed in 2009. I dont require Santander to have to do anything more 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman