DRN-3245093
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost, which he believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
In April 2019 Mr S came across an advert, on a social media platform, for a company that 
said it was able to assist students with personal statements and applications for prestigious 
universities. 
Mr S has said he carried out some research and found there were many successful case 
studies. Interested in the services being offered, Mr S contacted the company and it asked 
him to provide his academic information. Following which the company sent Mr S an 
agreement for it to provide him with support and a personal statement regarding an 
application for a university. Mr S was provided with details of where payment should be 
made to and has said that he was told, if he agreed to go ahead and pay within three days, 
hed receive a 20% discount. 
Mr S decided to go ahead and, on 12 April 2019, he made a payment for £3,190 to the 
account details the company provided.
Mr S has said the personal statement was meant to be sent to him within three or four 
months, but it was some eight months before he received it. And hes told us that when it 
was received he found it not to be of a good standard or what he expected. Unhappy with 
what hed been sent, in January 2020, Mr S contacted the company and it agreed to re-write 
the statement and change the person who had written it. But Mr S has said he didnt receive 
anything further and when he tried to contact the company he didnt hear anything back. 
Following which hes told us it stopped contact with him altogether.
Mr S raised the matter with Barclays and it issued its final response in January 2021, not 
upholding Mr S complaint. In summary, this was because it considered the matter a 
buyer/seller dispute between Mr S and the company. It thought this because the company 
had provided Mr S with a personal statement. 
Mr S didnt agree with Barclays position and brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary she said that, 
although she recognised Mr S felt that he had been the victim of a scam, it wasnt clear cut 
that this case met the definition of a scam as the company had provided Mr S with a 
personal statement which is what it agreed to do. Our investigator also didnt think the 
payment Mr S made would have appeared as unusual or suspicious to Barclays, so she 
didnt think Barclays should have prevented the payment from being made. As well as this, 
our investigator also didnt think Barclays had caused any delays in reviewing Mr S 
complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He believes this was a scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the money Mr S sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr S was 
hoping for. But having thought about Barclays actions, I am unable to say it has 
responsibility for refunding the money Mr S sent. I will explain why.
Its clear the agreement Mr S entered into with the company did not go as planned and he 
has not received what he was expecting. And I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I 
know, that the company set out with an intent to defraud him.
The company Mr S paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated in 
2014 and whose principle activity was Educational Support Services. Im also mindful that Mr 
S has said he saw many successful case studies on social media and hes told us the 
company carried out education fairs across many universities in the UK.
 
Im also not aware of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other 
authority, which leads me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud. Based on what I 
currently know, while I dont dispute Mr S has not received the quality of service he 
suspected and may have been treated badly by the company, Ive not seen anything that I 
can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud.
 
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that had fallen into difficulties and 
been unable to meet its obligations to its customers, and has since been dissolved. So, on 
balance, taking into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude 
that Mr S has been a victim of a scam.
I can see that, even though our investigator wasnt persuaded this was a scam, she has still 
considered Barclays responsibilities around what she would have expected from it in terms 
of protecting its customers from the risk of financial harm  which is what I will also go on to 
do here. In this case, even if I were to consider this to be a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt 
and for the reasons explained I dont, I would need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S, when he made the transfer and when he reported 
the payment to Barclays, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
In making the payments through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr S authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, Barclays had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers. I consider that as a matter of good practice 
Barclays shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions and it 
should intervene if a payment appears unusual or suspicious.
Barclays has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction Mr S made was so unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to his normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Barclays to have 
intervened.
I say this as, having looked through Mr Ss bank statements for the twelve months leading 
up to the scam, I can see that Mr S has made other large payments, so I dont think it would 
have appeared as so remarkable to Barclays that it ought to have fairly and reasonably 
caused it any concern that Mr S may have been at risk of financial harm. The payment also 
didnt clear the entire account balance, which can often be an indicator of a scam. Overall, I 
simply dont think the payment stood out as being so unusual or suspicious that I could fairly 
or reasonably have expected Barclays to have intervened. As a result, even if I were to 
consider this was a scam, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in not making enquiries 
about the payment before processing it. 
Mr S has also said he was not happy with the service Barclays provided when dealing with 
his complaint. But, from what Ive seen, it has dealt with things in line with what is expected 
of it. And has responded in a timely manner when Mr S first raised the dispute and then 
when he later raised the matter as a complaint.
 
I can see Mr S has previously asked about taking matters through the courts. Mr S doesnt 
have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be binding on him. Subject to any 
time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr S right to pursue a legal remedy 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint. 
I dont underestimate Mr S strength of feeling, and I dont doubt my decision will come as a 
disappointment. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to 
refund Mr S the money he has paid.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman