DRN-4077694
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the advice given by KD Wright Financial Services Limited (KDWFS) 
to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs Y had deferred benefits in an occupational pension scheme. In September 2017, she 
was provided a statement, including the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her 
benefits, which was £581,491.73.
In November 2017, she contacted KDWFS to discuss her pension and retirement planning. 
Mrs Y says KDWFS were recommended to her by a former colleague.
On 20 November 2017, KDWFS sent Mrs Y an analysis summary report. This report first set 
out KDWFSs understanding of Mrs Ys circumstances and objectives. It said Mrs Y was 55, 
in good health, married with one son who was not financially dependent. Mrs Y was 
employed full time earning £46,500. Mr Y was also employed and his earnings, including 
state pension he was receiving, were approximately £29,000. They owned their home with 
an outstanding mortgage of £157,000 (approximately 37% of the property value), with a 
remaining term of 20 years. They had savings and investments totalling approximately 
£41,000. And Mrs Y also held another pension from her current employer with a value of 
around £23,000.
KDWFS said Mrs Y didnt have a set retirement age in mind but may look to stop work 
around age 60. It said she was interested in repaying as much of her mortgage balance as 
she could now, to reduce outgoings as she didnt want this level of debt for a further 20 
years. And it said she wanted to carry out some refurbishment work at home. So, she was 
interested in immediately accessing tax-free cash (TFC). And KDWFS said Mrs Y wanted 
full control over her pension and the flexibility to control how benefits were paid.
KDWFS noted Mrs Y was a cautious risk investor. But said, in conversation, she had 
expressed an interest in holding some investments on a balanced risk basis and a small 
percentage on an aggressive basis.
The report then set out details of the existing scheme and concluded by recommending that 
Mrs Y transfer her benefits away from the DB scheme. It said the critical yield  the rate 
Mrs Ys pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to purchase equivalent 
benefits to those the DB scheme would provide at her retirement age  of 6.4% was 
potentially achievable. TFC could be taken to address Mrs Ys objective of paying down her 
mortgage without her having to begin drawing an income, unnecessarily. And by transferring 
the pension could be left as a lump sum in the event of her death  which KDWFS said 
Mrs Y liked. And while shed be giving up a guaranteed income, KDWFS said Mrs Y believed 
the transfer value would provide her sufficient income in retirement.
The analysis report did not include a recommendation of a specific new pension 
arrangement or reasons for choosing a particular provider. Despite this, application forms for 
a SIPP were supplied to Mrs Y with the advisers declaration marked as having been 
completed on the same day as the report. 
These forms appear to have been signed by Mrs Y on 28 November 2017, with forms to the 
DB scheme authorising the transfer, a request for the release of TFC and KDWFS client 
agreement all also signed at the same time.
In December 2017, KDWFS sent Mrs Y a pension transfer report.  This explained that 
KDWFS had noticed a discrepancy in the transfer value analysis (TVAS) report it had 
previously carried out  which had included the calculation of the critical yield. So, this had 
been re-run. The report went on to say that the critical yield to provide equivalent benefits to 
the full pension the DB scheme could provide at the normal scheme retirement age was 
10.03%. KDWFS said though that it still recommended a transfer from her DB scheme, for 
much the same reasons given previously. This report also included confirmation of KDWFS 
recommendation of a SIPP provider and investment mix. And that KDWFS would provide 
ongoing servicing and support, for a fee. I understand the transfer went ahead in line with 
KDWFS recommendation.
Mrs Y complained to KDWFS in 2022. She said was concerned that the advice mightve 
been unsuitable for her as she had become aware of the regulators stance on DB pension 
transfers. So, she wanted KDWFS to review the advice and compensate her if the advice 
was unsuitable.
KDWFS didnt uphold Mrs Ys complaint. It said Mrs Y had wanted to release tax-free cash 
from her pension to reduce her mortgage and other debts, provide lump sum death benefits 
for her son and to have control over the pension. So, it felt the advice it gave was suitable 
and that Mrs Y was made aware of the risks involved.
Mrs Y referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that KDWFS should compensate Mrs Y for 
any loss the DB transfer had led to. He thought Mrs Y was always unlikely to improve on the 
benefits the DB scheme already guaranteed by transferring. And he didnt think Mrs Y had a 
compelling need for flexibility, alternative death benefits or to access TFC and so thought the 
recommendation wasnt in her best interests.
KDWFS disagreed. It said the transfer had allowed Mrs Y to meet her objectives, so it still 
considered that the advice was suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KDWFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, KDWFS 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Ys best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it is that Mrs Y would be better off in 
terms of the retirement income she would receive, by transferring. Because moving from a 
DB scheme to a personal pension exposed her pension to risk that she wasnt otherwise 
subject to. And given a pensions primary purpose is to provide for the income needs of the 
holder in retirement, whether Mrs Y would be better off in retirement as a result of a transfer 
is, in my view, a relevant consideration when looking at what was in her best interests.
KDWFS carried out transfer value analysis as required by the regulator, including the 
calculation of a critical yield. It noted in the documents from the time that the initial analysis 
contained discrepancies though, so this was re-done. The initial report put the critical yield at 
6.74% and the updated report said this was 10.03%. 
In response to the Investigators opinion KDWFS said that the critical yield of 6.74% was 
before taking TFC. And 10.03% was after TFC had been taken. But that isnt supported by 
the TVAS report outlining the figure of 10.03%. This makes it clear that the calculation is 
based on the whole transfer value being invested and doesnt indicate it intends to replicate 
Mrs Y taking TFC. But this notwithstanding, I dont think either of the critical yield figures 
were likely to be achieved here.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3% per year for four full years to retirement  which wouldve been the case if benefits 
were drawn from the DB scheme at the normal retirement age of 60, based on Mrs Ys age 
at the time of the advice. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Ys 
recorded cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point 
in Mrs Y giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, 
at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield 
figures, I think Mrs Y was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
KDWFS has said, in response to our Investigators opinion, that Mrs Y had a split risk 
profile. And while she intended to invest 50% of her pension fund cautiously, she was also 
willing for 40% to be invested on a balanced basis and for 10% to be invested aggressively. 
Im conscious though that the DB scheme appears to have made up the majority of Mrs Ys 
retirement provisions, so she had a low capacity for loss. Which to me indicates she was 
likely to want to take more caution and so the cautious attitude to risk mentioned does 
appear to be accurate. But in any event, even if she were instead a balanced investor, I still 
dont think this meant she was likely to improve on the benefits the DB scheme guaranteed 
by transferring.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and access to tax-free cash
KDWFS has said that Mrs Y wanted access to TFC to reduce her mortgage and other debt 
(although there was nothing recorded in the recommendations about the level or duration of 
those other debts) and carry out some home improvements. It says she was concerned 
about having to service such a large debt (the mortgage) for twenty years, particularly 
bearing in mind that Mr Y was a good deal older than her  already drawing state pension. 
And transferring and accessing TFC was the only way of achieving this objective. It also said 
doing this meant they wouldnt pay as much in interest over the mortgage term, offsetting 
some of the reduction in pension benefits. And it added that Mrs Y was keen on having 
flexibility and being able to draw income how and when she wanted. 
There was nothing recorded in either of the letters recommending a transfer about Mrs Ys 
expected income needs in retirement. So, while the idea of being able to draw income 
flexibly mightve appealed to her, I cant see that she had a strong need for this. Or, bearing 
in mind I think that she was always likely to receive lower retirement benefits as a result of 
transferring, that this flexibility allowed her to better meet her retirement income needs. So, I 
dont think transferring to achieve flexibility was demonstrated to be in her best interests.
I also dont think, based on the information available, that transferring to repay a portion of 
her mortgage at that time was something that she needed to do. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs Y were having difficulty making their mortgage repayments or those 
relating to any other debts they held, or that they were behind with any of these. And Mrs Y, 
who earned the greater portion of their income, intended to continue working for another 
several years at least. And there is no suggestion that she and Mr Y wouldve had any 
issues with making repayments for the foreseeable future. So, reducing the mortgage seems, at best, to have been an aspiration or a nice to have rather than a genuine need. 
And KDWFS role wasnt just to do what Mrs Y mightve thought she wanted  its role was to 
assess all of the relevant information and circumstances and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
The DB scheme also allowed Mrs Y to draw TFC at retirement. So, as she and Mr Y appear 
to have been able to afford the mortgage repayments, it appears they couldve continued to 
do so until the normal scheme retirement age. At which point, Mrs Y couldve drawn TFC 
and used this to reduce the mortgage balance. And she would then have received a 
guaranteed escalating income, to support with the payment of any residual balance. This 
wouldve achieved her apparent aim of not having such a significant debt over such a long 
term, without sacrificing the guaranteed pension income she was entitled to. But KDWFS 
doesnt appear to have considered or analysed this alternative. It said, in the second 
recommendation report, it hadnt received commutation factors to determine what level of 
TFC the DB scheme could provide. But Id argue it shouldnt have given advice until it had.
KSWFS has said that reducing the mortgage immediately meant their payments would be 
reduced, making a saving. And it is true that having a lower level of debt would normally 
produce an interest saving. But firstly, it wasnt made clear how much of the TFC would be 
used to reduce the mortgage. KDWFS said there was other debt to potentially be repaid and 
home improvements were also something Mrs Y was considering. But there were no figures 
recorded for how much would be used for these purposes. So, it was unclear how much the 
mortgage balance would be reduced by. KDWFS also didnt refer in the recommendation to 
any specific information about the mortgage payments  what these were, what they would 
be after a reduction of the balance or what penalties for early repayment might be incurred. 
And in turn there was no comparison of these figures to how Mrs Ys retirement income 
would be impacted. So, there is nothing to support that this would improve her position.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think I can reasonably say that transferring to achieve 
this objective was in Mrs Ys best interests. It doesnt seem to have been something she 
needed to do. And she was again always likely to be worse off in retirement by doing so.
Death benefits
KDWFS says that the lump sum death benefits available through a SIPP appealed to Mrs Y 
 as they could provide a legacy for her son. And it argues that the spouses benefit the DB 
scheme offered was unlikely to be called upon, given Mr Y was a good number of years 
older than Mrs Y and their average life expectancies.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs Y. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs Y might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise her about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think KDWFS explored to what extent 
Mrs Y was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for alternative death 
benefits.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. And I 
can see that KDWFS made reference in its pension transfer report to this being available in 
full as a lump sum. But I think that was misleading. Because its advice was based on this 
immediately being reduced by 25% and Mrs Y taking TFC. And the sum remaining on death 
following a transfer was dependent on investment performance and wouldve also been 
reduced by any income Mrs Y drew in her lifetime. Mrs Y was recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest she was less likely to live until at least her average 
life expectancy. By which time, given this pension accounted for the majority of her 
retirement provisions, it is likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted. So, the 
pension may not have provided the legacy that Mrs Y may have thought it would.
Furthermore, if Mrs Y genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her family, and in particular her 
son, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained 
on her death, life insurance couldve been explored. And, given she was in good health, this 
couldve been a reasonable and affordable alternative. But KDWFS doesnt appear to have 
considered this, which I think wouldve been appropriate when thinking about what was in 
Mrs Ys best interests.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs Y. 
Control 
I think Mrs Ys desire for control over her pension benefits was overstated. From the 
information available Im satisfied Mrs Y was not an experienced investor. And I cannot see 
that she had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage her pension funds on her 
own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mrs Y  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme.
And although the information from the point of sale indicated that the DB scheme was in 
deficit, her former employer, which sponsored the scheme, was one of the largest financial 
institutions in the country. And I havent seen anything to suggest the funding of the scheme 
was in a position such that Mrs Y should have genuinely been concerned about the security 
of her pension. So, I also dont think it was in her interests to transfer because of this.
Suitability of investments
KDWFS recommended that Mrs Y invest in particular managed funds through her SIPP. 
And, as part of her complaint, Mrs Y questioned if the investments were suitable. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mrs Y, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mrs Y should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs Y. But KDWFS wasnt 
there to just transact what Mrs Y might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mrs Y needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs Y was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs Y was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, for the reasons Ive explained, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs Y shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the 
alternative death benefits werent worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB 
scheme.
So, I think KDWFS shouldve advised Mrs Y to remain in her DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs Y would've gone ahead anyway, against 
KDWFS's advice. Ive considered this carefully, having regard for the concerns KDWFS says 
Mrs Y had about the size of her mortgage. But Im not persuaded that Mrs Y wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against KDWFSs advice. Again, Mrs Y was 
an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of her retirement provisions. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs Ys preference for reducing her mortgage and indebtedness, or 
the appeal of alternative death benefits, meant that she wouldve insisted on the transfer 
knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she had sought out, didnt think it was 
suitable for her or in her best interests. If KDWFS had explained that Mrs Y could retain her 
guaranteed pension  which she was unlikely to improve upon - and still meet her objectives, 
albeit in a different timescale than she mightve initially preferred, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. And so, if KDWFS had provided Mrs Y with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she 
wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think KDWFS should compensate Mrs Y for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs Y, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs Y would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
KDWFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand Mrs Y has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the 
schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ys acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, KDWFS should:
calculate and offer Mrs Y redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs Y before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs Y receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs Y accepts KDWFS s offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs Y for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ys end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs Y as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, KDWFS may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mrs Ys likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require KD Wright Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mrs Y the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
KD Wright Financial Services Limited pays Mrs Y the balance.
If Mrs Y accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on KD Wright Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs Y can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs Y may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman