DRN-2504165
The complaint
P, a company, complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) reversed a card 
payment it had taken when it was challenged by the cardholder. P is represented by its 
director, Mr O.   
What happened
Since around 2015 First Data P has provided merchant services to P. That enables P to take 
card payments from its customers, which First Data processes.
In July 2019 P agreed to supply goods valued at £4,560 (including VAT) to one of its 
customers. It took payment by card, and the invoice indicates that, as well as the card 
number, P took the name on the card used to make the payment, the account address and 
an email address. The payment was approved, and P supplied the goods. 
Some weeks later First Data contacted P to say that the holder of the card from which 
payment had been taken challenged the payment as fraudulent and that it would therefore 
be reversed. Because the transaction had been made without the card being physically 
present, there was no way that could be challenged. 
P said that, when it signed its agreement with First Data in 2015, First Data knew that any 
card payments it took would be Card Not Present transactions. In the circumstances, it 
should have done more to ensure it was aware of the risks involved. Had it done so, P would 
not have agreed to the arrangements. It was only told about the risks of taking card 
payments in this way after the payment in July 2019. 
P referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered it. He didnt 
think however that P had been treated unfairly. He noted that, even if it had been made 
aware of the risks involved with card not present transactions, its position would have been 
no different, since no other provider would have refunded the payment either. 
P didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator, and 
for similar reasons.
Im satisfied first of all that the card payment was fraudulent  in the sense that is was not 
made or authorised by the genuine cardholder. The card issuer would have carried out their 
own investigation once the customer challenged the payment. I note as well that theres no 
obvious connection between the cardholder details that P took at the point of sale and the 
user of the products it was supplying. I stress however that there is no suggestion at all that 
P was in any way involved in any fraud. It simply believed  honestly but incorrectly  that 
the cardholder had authorised the payment. 
I must therefore consider whether its fair that P should bear the loss resulting from the 
unauthorised use of the card. 
When Mr O applied to be provided with merchant services by First Data he signed a 
Merchant Solutions application form and a Virtual Terminal application. The first of these 
included a declaration that P agreed to be bound by First Datas Merchant Conditions. Those 
conditions included:
Card Not Present Transactions are in all cases at your own risk. Any Card Not Present 
Transaction disputed by the Cardholder may be charged back (in accordance with 
clause 19) even where you have complied with your Merchant Agreement and we have 
given Authorisation. [Clause 8.3];    
We may charge back to you any Card Transaction with respect to which  the 
Cardholder denies having authorised the Card Transaction and you are unable to 
provide evidence satisfactory to us that the Card Transaction was so authorised [Clause 
19.1.11]; and 
We may charge back to you any Card Transaction with respect to which the Card 
Transaction is a Card Not Present Transaction or involves Purchase with Cashback and 
is disputed by the Cardholder or Card Issuer [Clause 19.1.12].
A Card Not Present Transaction was defined as  any type of Card Transaction where the 
Cardholder is not present or the Card is not provided physically to you at the time of the 
transaction, including Card Transactions made via the telephone, mail order and/or a 
Website.
P was told about some changes to the Merchant Conditions in August 2017, although there 
were no changes to the provisions Ive referred to above. 
The Virtual Terminal application included a similar declaration in respect of the Virtual 
Terminal Agreement. It also included a declaration that P accepted that in certain 
circumstances transactions might be charged back, including card not present transactions.    
There can in my view be no question that this was a card not present transaction. There was 
therefore a possibility that First Data would charge it back if one or more of the conditions in 
clause 19 was met. I think its clear too that the cardholder had denied making the payment 
and that P could not show they had. Both clauses 19.1.11 and 19.1.12 of the Merchant 
Conditions therefore applied. First Data was entitled to charge back the payment.
Mr O said that First Data had not brought the risks involved in card not present transactions 
properly to Ps attention when it entered into the merchant services agreement. In my view, 
however, it was under no duty to do any more than it did. It provided the conditions that Mr O 
agreed to on behalf of P. Those terms were clear and unambiguous, and it wasnt for First 
Data to advise on their effect. 
I note that Mr O suggested too that he might have been able to obtain more favourable 
terms elsewhere. Whether or not thats true, however, I dont believe that First Data had a 
duty to suggest that possibility to P.         
My final decisionFor these reasons my final decision is that I dont require First Data Europe Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman