DRN-2557036
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc authorised a payment for more than double his credit 
limit.
What happened
Mr K made a payment for his hotel when he was abroad but instead of the hotel making the 
payment in the local currency, it processed the payment in pounds sterling for a significantly 
higher amount than agreed and was more than double his credit card limit.
Santander sent Mr K a text to tell him that he was over his credit card limit so he contacted 
them to try and resolve this. Mr K says he spent several hours on the phone to Santander 
and was unable to resolve this on the initial phone call as he had to send them evidence that 
the wrong amount was processed.
Mr K complained to Santander as he said this was their fault for authorising the payment at 
more than double his credit limit. He said this affected his holiday as he was not able to use 
his credit card until this was fixed and detailed the impact the issue had on his wife and 
himself. He asked for £1,000 compensation from Santander to resolve his complaint.
Santander said they attributed the mistake to a technical error and offered £150 for the 
inconvenience caused but ultimately Mr K brought his complaint to our service as he was 
unhappy with the redress offered.
Our investigator said that although the problem started with an error by the merchant (the 
hotel) processing the higher payment, Santander were reasonable with the redress offered. 
Mr K disagreed with this as he thought £1,000 would better reflect the impact and so asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive considered 
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
The payment in question here has now been returned. So all thats left for me to decide here 
is whether the compensation Santander has offered is fair and reasonable for the impact this 
had on Mr K.
Ill start by saying that it was the hotel that made the initial error of processing the payment in 
the wrong currency. I dont think Santander can be held responsible for any upset or 
inconvenience this directly caused Mr K.
But Santander has acknowledged that letting Mr K exceed his limit by such a large amount 
was a mistake. Santander has said that this was due to a technical error. It must have been 
worrying and confusing for Mr K to have seen his account exceed its limit by such a 
considerable account.
As a part of this, Santander sent a text to Mr K to say the account was over the credit limit. 
so they alerted him that there was a potential issue and they blocked the card. I can 
understand why they blocked the card, as if it was a genuine transaction they would not want 
to allow further transactions to be debited from the card while it was significantly over the 
credit limit. Ultimately this was a preventative measure Santander took, which was in Mr Ks 
best interests, even if it did have an unavoidable impact on his holiday.
When Santander were made aware of the issue by Mr K they explained that they would 
need to investigate this. So, although I can understand Mr Ks frustration at the length of the 
investigation, I dont think they were unreasonable in the information which they asked for. A 
bank is entitled to ask for more information when trying to work out what happened with a 
payment. Once they received this, they acted promptly in putting things right and restoring 
Mr Ks access and use of the account.
So I dont think Santander were responsible for the original transaction and nor do I think it 
was unfair that they blocked Mr Ks access and use of the card. But, finding that he had 
exceeded his limit by such a significant amount would have been very worrying for Mr K. 
Santander has said this was because a technical error and so offered him £150 
compensation for the impact. Mr K thinks the compensation should be £1,000. 
In considering the impact of the mistake that Santander made here  Ive taken into account 
that there has ultimately been no financial loss in this instance (as the transaction and over 
limit charge has been reversed). And that the block being placed on the account, was a fair 
thing for Santander to do, and this wasnt in place for longer than it should have been. But 
seeing that hed exceeded his credit limit will have been worrying for Mr K during his holiday 
 which should have been an enjoyable time. For that I think £150 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances here. So thats what I think Santander should pay Mr K to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc have already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021
. 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman