DRN-2969794
The complaint
V complains that Funding Circle Ltd provided inaccurate information about what would 
happen if it applied for a loan via the electronic platform it operates.
What happened
V is represented by its director who I will refer to Mr R.
V wished to borrow money.  Funding Circle Ltd operates an electronic platform which 
matches up potential borrowers with potential lenders. V made an application using Funding 
Circle Ltds electronic platform. V suggests that as part of the application process Funding 
Circle Ltd indicated it would carry out a soft check against the director of V, but instead it did 
a hard check. Vs stance is if it had been made clear that a hard check would be carried out, 
then it would not have gone ahead with the application. V explained that the reason it would 
not have continued with the application if it had known that a hard search was going to take 
place was because Mr R was going to apply for a mortgage. As a result, Mr R did not want a 
hard search to appear on his personal credit file. V complained to Funding Circle Ltd, V 
wants it to remove the hard search from Mr Rs credit file.
Funding Circle Ltd responded that it made it clear that it would be carrying out a hard search 
as part of the application process. Moreover, it suggested the hard search requirement is in 
its terms and conditions and private policy, V agreed to accept these when it made its 
application. It follows that Funding Circle Ltd did not uphold Vs complaint.
V complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Vs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld.
It seems that Funding Circle Ltd accepted this recommendation, V did not. In summary, V 
repeated its previous stance and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
This complaint turns on what information Funding Circle Ltd provided V with at the time it 
made its application using Funding Circle Ltds electronic platform. 
Funding Circle Ltd has provided us with a detailed explanation of the application process. I 
see no reason why I should not be able to rely on the information Funding Circle Ltd has 
provided about this. V has sent us two screenshots which appear to be screenshots of part 
of the application process. V points out neither one of these two screenshots talk about the 
need for hard searches against the directors of the applicant company. Thats correct.
However, Im satisfied that V would not only have viewed those two screenshots as part of 
the application process. Rather Im satisfied that it would have been presented with the 
entire application process. This full application process includes mention of the need for 
credit checks against the directors of the applicant company. Moreover, Im also persuaded 
that in order to have made the application V would have had to have accepted the terms and 
conditions and the privacy policy, so I think it is fair and reasonable for Funding Circle Ltd to 
rely on those terms and conditions and the privacy policy. Despite this I accept that V may 
not have been aware that a hard credit search would be carried out. But I dont think that is 
because Funding Circle Ltd did not do enough to make this clear. For all of these reasons I 
have no proper grounds for asking Funding Circle Ltd to take any further action.
Even if I thought Funding Circle Ltd ought to have done more to bring this requirement to Vs 
attention, which I dont, it is not apparent what loss if any V suggests it has made. It is 
possible that Vs point is that the hard search information on Mr Rs credit file may impact on 
any future applications V makes for credit. However, it has not demonstrated this. But the 
complaint point about the impact on Mr R personally of the credit search is not something I 
can look at in this complaint. That is because V not Mr R is the eligible complainant here. 
And in any event any loss related to Mr Rs credit file is Mr Rs personal loss not a loss 
sustained by V.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman