DRN-3289868
The complaint
Mrs S complains about issues with her HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) account. She would like 
more compensation than HSBC has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Its clear that Mrs S had numerous problems with her HSBC account. It seems these 
were due to  a systems error which meant her credit card details didnt show on 
HSBCs system. As a result,  Mrs S  couldnt make payments to the account leading 
to missed payment markers on her credit file. Unfortunately, systems problems do 
happen.
HSBC has aplogised. I understand it has arranged for a new credit card and  has 
updated her credit file to remove adverse information relating to payments affected 
by the systems error. I think these were reasonable steps that I would have expected 
HSBC to take. It also paid £100 compensation for these systems issues.
HSBC has also aologised and offered a further £150 compensation for service issues 
as it acknowledged Mrs S had to make numerous phone calls, incurred long wait 
times during these phone calls, and felt one of the call handlers was rude to her. It 
has also given feedback to the call handler in question.
Mrs S doesnt feel the additional £150 compensation on top of the £100 already paid 
by  HSBC is sufficient.  I do appreciate the frustration, inconvenience and distress 
that would have been caused with not being able to make payments and the 
resultant effect on her credit file. And the time taken to resolve this by phone along 
with the way she feels she was spoken to. I have taken this into account when 
considering if the compensation is appropriate and I think that it is.
I am not aware of any other factors that I could take into account such as Mrs 
suffering any financial loss (other than the cost of phone calls) as a result of  HSBCs 
actions or the negative credit file information preventing her getting credit elsewhere. 
Considering all the information that I have I feel the additional £150 compensation 
that HSBC has offered on top of the £100 already paid is appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement HSBC UK Bank plc should pay Mrs S £150 compensation .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman