DRN-2469597
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the advice they received from Santander UK Plc during their
re-mortgage application in 2009. They say that when their fixed rate ended at this time, they
were led to believe that all new available rates came with a high product fee, so Santander
advised remaining on the standard variable rate (SVR) was the best option for them. They
complain about the lack of fee-free options offered by Santander, which has led to them
paying the SVR since 2009.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs B took an interest only mortgage for £90,000 with Santander. Their rate 
was fixed for two years. 
When Mr and Mrs Bs rate ended in 2009, they discussed re-mortgage options with 
Santander. They say they were only offered products that came with a substantial fee. They 
didnt feel the switch was cost effective for them and so were advised by Santander to 
remain on the standard variable rate (SVR). 
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs B say they spoke with a mortgage advisor about an unrelated 
matter and the topic of their Santander mortgage came up. They say the mortgage advisor 
suggested they contact Santander to switch to a better rate as fee free options existed.
Mr and Mrs B switched their mortgage to a more competitive fee free deal and raised a 
complaint with Santander about the rate theyd been paying since 2009 and the lack of 
options previously presented to them. 
Santander issued its final response letter, in which it didnt uphold the complaint. Santander 
said it notified Mr and Mrs B about their rate ending in 2009 and it was their discretion 
whether to fix into a new interest rate. Santander didnt accept that it had done anything 
wrong.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. 
As part of their complaint to us, they also said that Santander has failed to provide them with 
clear information about how overpayments work. They are seeking some clarity on this. 
Santander said it objected to our service considering part of the complaint as it thought it had
been brought outside of the time limits set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Santander did consent to our service looking into the rate of interest Mr and Mrs B have
been paying going back six years from when the complaint was made in February 2020.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs B had complained to Santander within the
set time limits. Ultimately, he thought we couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about
the advice they received in 2009, or the rate they were paying until 2014, as that part of the
complaint had been brought too late.
Our investigator thought we could look into Santanders conduct within the last six years and
didnt find that it had done anything wrong. He explained that in the annual statements sent 
to Mr and Mrs B Santander provided information on how to get a new deal. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They raised additional points that challenged both the time limits
and merits opinions reached. In response to our investigators merits opinion, Mr and Mrs B 
said that whilst they did receive the mailings from Santander, their health conditions make it 
more difficult to read, understand and retain information. They also say businesses have a 
tendency to bury important information amongst pages of terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B also said that over the years Santander didnt specifically let them know that 
fee-free options existed, so they thought nothing had changed since they last reviewed their 
rate in 2009  that being only products with large product fees were available. For that 
reason, they thought making contact to review their rate was pointless. 
Because an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to decide and I issued a 
decision on 30 September 2021 explaining why this service can only consider part of Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. My decision said that:
1. this service doesnt have the power to look into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about what
happened during the re-mortgage application in 2009 or the rate their mortgage was on
until February 2014.
2. this service can look into the rate of interest Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was on since
February 2014 and Santanders contact with them during this time.
I explained that because our investigator had already looked into part of Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint and because they disagreed with that outcome, that this part of their complaint is 
being considered further by our service.
Both Mr and Mrs B responded to say they await the outcome of the merits decision which Ill 
now proceed to issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs B complain that for 11 years they were paying 
Santanders SVR. They say that at no point during this time did Santander contact them to 
tell them that better fee free options were available. As a result, theyve been paying a higher 
rate of interest than necessary. When they switched to a fee free option in 2020, Santander 
told them that six months prior to their rate ending it would be in touch to discuss future rates 
available. Mr and Mrs B question why this did not happen previously. 
The relevant FCA rules (Mortgage Conduct of business MCOB) state what information 
lenders are required to communicate to their customers. 
The rules state that when a customers contractual monthly payment changes  either by 
choice or through changes to variable rates, the lender should provide a full breakdown of 
the new payment schedule. Mr and Mrs B have confirmed that they did receive letters from 
Santander advising them of changes to the SVR over the years and their direct debit 
payment amounts. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong in that respect. Our investigator also pointed out that Santander also sent clear reminders within its annual 
statement mailings reminding customers how they can get in touch to discuss their mortgage 
if their current deal was coming to an end or if they were on the SVR. 
Mr and Mrs B have challenged the integrity of this mailing for a couple of reasons. Firstly, 
they say that due to their health conditions the mailing wasnt sent in an appropriate format 
suitable for their needs. As such the terms and conditions were illegible and deliberately mis-
leading. I do sympathise with their circumstances, but I can only conclude that Santander 
has got something wrong here if it had been made aware of any required adjustments but 
not complied with them. Ive looked at all the contact notes since 2007 and I cant see that 
Mr and Mrs B made Santander of any special requirements. Nor did they ask our service to 
communicate with them differently.
Mr and Mrs B also complain that the relevant information wasnt clearly presented to them. 
Ive looked at the inserts supplied with the annual statements and Im satisfied details of how 
to switch rates were clearly presented under the section labelled understanding different 
mortgage products. At the top of this section it says:
Looking for a new deal on your existing mortgage? If your current mortgage 
deal is coming to an end, or youre paying our Standard Variable Rate, just call 
our team of Mortgage Advisers wholl be happy to advise you on your options. 
Alternatively, if youre happy to not receive advice, you could use our Online 
Mortgage Transfer Service at santander.co.uk/changing-deals. Its easy to use 
and you could select a new mortgage deal online in under 15 minutes.
Lenders were not required to specifically write to customers on the SVR to let them know 
that lower rates exist or to let them know what the available rates are. Santanders rates are 
widely available for information purposes through their website.
As Ive explained above, Santander invited Mr and Mrs B to explore other options through 
either a mortgage appointment or by visiting their website to check rates available to them. 
Mr and Mrs B had a fee free rate previously in 2007, so I think they were aware they existed, 
and it was up to them whether they chose to explore other options over the years or not. 
So, when considering everything, Im satisfied Santander fulfilled its obligations by regularly 
writing to Mr and Mrs B to invite them to review the rate they were paying on their mortgage. 
Ive considered the reasons why Mr and Mrs B say they didnt do this over the years, but for 
the reason Ive explained, it was their perception that led them to believe no fee free options 
existed. I cant hold Santander responsible for that as it was not required to do anything 
differently in the circumstances and customers generally know they can speak to their lender 
if theyre not happy with the rate of interest theyre paying and to discuss other options which 
Mr and Mrs B were regularly invited to do. 
Mr and Mrs B have questioned how overpayments work whilst on their current rate. I am 
happy to explain this to them. Whilst their current deal completed on 25 February 2020 it 
doesnt end until 2 May 2022. It is common for fixed rate deals to sometimes run longer than 
their intended period - in this case two years. Rates are advertised to run until a set date  
allowing a buffer period for customers to sign up for the deal and to benefit from at least the 
term advertised.
Mr and Mrs Bs offer says their rate is fixed at 1.69% until 2 May 2022. The offer also states 
that the early repayment charge (ERC) is 3% on the amount repaid on or before 2 May 
2022. The illustration shows the maximum ERC possibly chargeable to Mr and Mrs B would 
be £629.82.The offer goes on to say:
if there is a product related ERC, you can make capital repayments of up to 10% of the 
loan balance in each calendar year. overpayments in excess of 10% may attract an ERC, 
on the excess amount
I hope this helps clear things up. If Mr and Mrs B need further information or clarity on how 
much they can overpay each year without paying an ERC, Santander should assist them 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman