DRN-2796781
The complaint
Mr S complains that the pension he is expecting from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited falls significantly short of the amounts that he was told to expect in the years 
following the pension plan being taken out. 
What happened
Mr S opened a new pension plan with Prudential in March 1984. At that time he was 
22 years old. He says that his mother had previously saved money on his behalf into a with 
profits fund provided by Prudential that had performed well. So when that policy matured he 
was advised to take out a pension plan. Mr S says that he wasnt given any key features 
documentation at the time of the sale, but was told that his pension contributions would 
benefit from tax relief so making the product attractive.
Mr S says that in the following three years he received letters from Prudential setting out the 
value of his pension when he reached retirement, and encouraging him to increase the 
contributions he was making to the pension plan. I will discuss those letters in more detail 
later in this decision as their content forms the basis for much of Mr Ss complaint. He says 
those letters did not give any indication that the values quoted for his pension were subject 
to change, or investment performance. But the amounts that Prudential is now saying he will 
receive are substantially lower.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think the advice, 
and information, Mr S had been given when the pension plan was sold in 1984 had been 
inappropriate. And he thought that the information Mr S had subsequently been sent made it 
sufficiently clear that any pension values were based on assumptions about investment 
performance and other market conditions. So he didnt think that the complaint should be 
upheld, or that Prudential needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. He didnt think that the information provided in the 
early years of his pension plan carried any caveats with regard to the pension that would be 
payable  he said the caveats only applied to the sections regarding increased contributions. 
So he thinks that the difference in value is attributable to poor management by Prudential of 
his pension savings. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The sale of the pension plan to Mr S took place almost 40 years ago. So it isnt surprising 
that there is little documentary evidence from the time about how it was sold. I appreciate 
that Mr S has said he has a good recollection of what happened  but I am mindful that even 
the most careful of memories can, and do, fade over such a lengthy period of time.
There is little to persuade me that any recommendation that Prudential might have given to 
Mr S  to take out the pension plan in 1984  was inappropriate. At that time, with profits 
investments were seen as providing an excellent opportunity for growth over the lifetime of 
the plan. And Mr S has said that he was able to afford the monthly contributions that he 
agreed to make. I havent seen anything to make me think that an alternative pension plan  
or indeed other savings vehicle - might have been better for Mr Ss circumstances.
But sadly, over the years, the investment performance of plans such as the one sold to Mr S 
has not matched the reasonable expectations at the time. And I think that my choice of 
words is important here  when the plans were sold, the investment performance that was 
anticipated was entirely in line with the expectations of the regulator. Prudential, and other 
firms, were directed by the regulator about how they should assess the likely future 
investment performance of savings. So I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
Prudential in some way misled Mr S about the amount of pension he might receive from the 
savings he was making.
Mr S has particularly highlighted some letters he received from Prudential in the early years 
of his plan. It seems to me that those letters were sent with the intention of encouraging Mr S 
to consider whether he should increase the contributions he was making each month to his 
pension savings. The letter he received in 1986 starts by saying;
As you can see from the attached notice your pension at 65 will be £41,133 per year
Mr S points out that statement did not suggest that the future value of his pension was 
subject to any future investment returns. But, in his response to our investigators 
assessment he says that the wording on the letter was clearly an error on Prudentials part, 
they should have written your pension is anticipated to be.
I think that, in isolation, the statement above would appear to create a risk that a policyholder 
might think the pension amount was guaranteed. But importantly it also referred Mr S to an 
attached notice. That notice provided Mr S with two further pieces of information. It showed 
him a guaranteed pension amount of £1,445.08. And it described the amount of £41,133 as 
being an illustrated pension on retirement. So I think the document as a whole might have 
reasonably led to a conclusion that future investment performance would influence the 
ultimate pension that would be payable.
Also, on the first page of the letter, Prudential suggested that someone earning an average 
salary of £8,000 per annum in 1986, might expect to be earning over £226,000 when Mr S 
was due to retire in 2026. So I think that might also have underlined that the figures being 
provided by Prudential were based on its best estimates, at that time, of what might happen 
in the wider economy.I can see that Mr S had some correspondence with Prudential in the late 1990s about a 
number of missing statements, and a change in the information it provided. Given those 
issues appear to have been dealt with at that time it wouldnt be right for me to consider 
them further in this decision. But Mr S does appear to have been sent annual statements 
after that time. And those have set out, even more clearly, the amount of guaranteed 
pension that his plan would provide.
I appreciate that the nature of Mr Ss plan means that only some of his future pension 
amount would be guaranteed during its life. There was also provision for a terminal bonus to 
be added that would potentially increase the pension being paid  and since Mr S is still not 
at the plans specified retirement age that bonus hasnt yet been determined. But I think over 
the years it should have been clear to Mr S that the amount of pension he was guaranteed to 
receive would be less than the amounts shown when he first took the plan out.
As I have said earlier, I dont find fault in the information Prudential provided about the 
potential pension payable when the plan was sold. But even after it became clearer that 
investment and economic conditions meant that those pension amounts were unlikely to be 
achieved, Mr S continued to contribute to the pension plan. 
I accept that, with the benefit of hindsight, and the stronger regulatory environment that has 
evolved over the years, the wording of Prudentials letters in the early years of Mr S holding 
the pension plan might have been better. But I am not persuaded that better wording would 
have led Mr S to have acted any differently. If, as he suggests it should have, Prudential had 
told him that the amount of his future pension was only anticipated I doubt that he would 
have ceased his contributions to the plan. So even if I were to conclude that Prudentials 
communications were deficient, I wouldnt conclude they had caused Mr S to lose out.
So in summary, I dont think any advice that Prudential provided to Mr S to encourage him to 
start the pension plan would have been inappropriate. And I havent seen anything to make 
me think that Prudential provided misleading information about the expected returns that 
might be achieved. Whilst those returns havent in fact materialised I cannot conclude that is 
a result of a failure by Prudential to effectively manage Mr Ss pension investments. And 
I dont think the information Prudential provided in the early years of the plan reasonably 
bound the firm to pay the full amounts it illustrated to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman