DRN-3950825
The complaint
Miss K complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket (Quidmarket) gave her 
loans which she couldnt afford. 
What happened
Miss K took two loans from Quidmarket between November 2020 and January 2021. Ive 
outlined a summary of her borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 10/11/2020 29/01/2021 3 £141.94
2 £450.00 31/01/2021 10/11/2021 4 £183.02
Following Miss Ks complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter (FRL). In summary,
it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable.
Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to
remove these loans from Miss Ks credit file. Miss K didnt agree and instead referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who in his assessment said the credit 
check results Quidmarket received ought to have prompted it to have carried out further 
checks before either loan was approved. Had it carried out further checks, it wouldve likely 
discovered Miss K was having financial difficulties, she already owed payday lenders a 
significant sum, had a number of returned direct debits and was spending on gambling 
transactions. 
In addition, he also thought for at least for loan 1, that after the loan was approved, Miss K 
was committed to spending a significant portion of her income servicing her existing credit 
commitments, and so was unlikely to be able to afford it. 
Overall, the adjudicator fully upheld Miss Ks complaint and Miss K appears to have 
accepted the outcome the adjudicator reached. 
Quid Market didnt agree with the outcome and in summary said.
Miss K only had two loans of small value and a good income.
Miss K had only opened 4 accounts in the six months before loan 1, not the 5 the 
adjudicator said had been opened. 
The level of detail the adjudicator went into wasnt proportionate.  
The adjudicator explained why these points didnt change his mind about the outcome. As 
no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ks income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
Quidmarket has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Miss K for 
details of her income and expenditure. Miss Ks income has been recorded as being £2,000 
per month for loan 1 and £2,130 for loan 2. Quidmarket says Miss Ks income was verified 
with a copy of her payslip. 
Miss K declared for loan 1 monthly outgoings of £605. This left disposable income of around 
£1,395 per month. However, following further checks (including a credit search which I 
comment on below) Quidmarket decreased Miss Ks monthly disposable income by a further 
£444  taking it to £951.For loan 2, her monthly outgoings were declared as being £675 which left £1,425 per month 
in disposable income. Again, further checks reduced the monthly disposable income to 
£710. 
Even with this smaller disposable income figure there was still sufficient money for Quid 
Market to believe Miss K could afford the largest repayment of around £183. The loan
looked affordable.
Before these loans were approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quidmarket couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Firstly, for loan 1, Miss K had opened 5 accounts in the last six months, but one of those had 
been repaid  a loan which was closed at the end of October 2020, so only 4 of the 5 
accounts were still showing as active. 
For loan 1, Quidmarket was told Miss K had 8 active credit accounts with a total debt of 
£2,472. However, Miss K was utilising 102% of her available credit  which indicates she 
was above the credit limit on one or more credit account. Therefore, she was technically, in 
breach of those credit agreement(s). 
Miss K already had credit commitments of £421  before the repayments for loan 1 were 
considered. This was across what appears to be at three loans and a mobile phone contract. 
On top of this, Miss K also needed to service a mail order account where she was almost at 
her limit of £600.
Miss Ks credit card was also above its limit of £200. Miss K had been using this account 
since July 2019 and there had been six occasions where Miss K had exceeded her credit 
limit on the card. 
So, while I accept what Quidmarket says  that Miss K had a small amount of debt, she was 
showing signs of struggling to keep on top of a relatively small credit card account and that 
she was regularly seeking and being granted new credit  almost one new credit facility each 
month in the period leading up to loan 1. 
By loans 2, the credit check results showed a change in Miss Ks finances. Just over two 
months later, Miss Ks total debt had more than doubled to £5,611 she now had 11 active 
accounts of which 8 had been opened in the six months prior to loan 2 being granted.
Indeed, given what the results show for the first credit check, Miss K had actually opened 3 
new accounts in just under two months. There were also 17 new credit searches carried out 
within the last three months  which is in my view a significant number. This time, 
Quidmarket knew of five outstanding loans (with at least one being a payday loan) costing 
Miss K £562 per month.
While the credit check results are not enough on their own to uphold the complaint, I do 
think, the evidence that Miss K was likely having problems keeping within her credit limit and 
appeared to have a need to continue to seek and be granted credit ought to have led 
Quidmarket to have carried out further checks. This has led me to conclude that Quidmarket 
didnt carry out a proportionate check before these loans were approved. Instead, I think Quidmarket needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ks actual financial 
position to ensure the loans were affordable beyond relying on what Miss K had declared 
about her income, outgoings and what the credit file showed. 
Quidmarket couldve carried out these additional checks, in a number of ways, it couldve 
asked for evidence of her outgoings such as copy bills. It couldve asked to see copies of 
Miss Ks bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to 
satisfy itself that it had carried out more robust checks. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loans, I have to be 
satisfied that had Quidmarket carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it 
wouldve likely discovered that Miss K couldnt afford her repayments and / or discovered the 
loans were likely unsustainable for her for some other reason.
Miss K has supplied copy bank statements from around the time these loans were approved. 
So, its entirely reasonably for me to consider what these statements show about Miss Ks 
financial position when these loans were advanced. But as Ive said above, obtaining copy 
bank statements was just one of the ways Quidmarket couldve gone about verifying her 
financial position. 
Had further checks been carried out, Quidmarket wouldve likely seen that when loan 1 was 
approved, Miss K had 7 outstanding payday loans costing her around £827 per month. In 
addition, and as the adjudicator has pointed out, there are numerous transactions for online 
betting websites. 
At loan 2, a similar picture is seen, there are still numerous betting transactions and Miss K 
still had seven payday loans outstanding cost her around £958 per month. 
Overall, Miss K appears to have had at least 7 outstanding payday loans at the time loans 1 
and 2 were advanced, on top of which she was also spending a significant amount of money 
each month on betting websites. In these circumstances, had Quidmarket carried out what I 
consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve likely concluded that Miss K couldnt afford 
to take on any further borrowing. 
I am therefore upholding Miss Ks complaint about both of her loans. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Miss K, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss K may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss K in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Miss K either of her loans.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Miss K the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Ks 
credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Miss K as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman