DRN-4439929
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (who Ill call SMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint SMF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed a little over 63,000 miles.
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
Mr O told the broker about the problems he was having with the car as soon as he collected 
it. He complained that the cars Engine Management Light (EML) was illuminated, the car 
was dragging and there was a grinding noise from the engine.
The broker arranged for the EML issue to be fixed but I dont think there is evidence they 
ever arranged for the other matters to be resolved. The independent engineer who 
eventually inspected the car in August 2022 noted that there were two broken rear 
suspension springs and that would appear to explain why the car was dragging and to 
confirm Mr Os earlier report. The independent engineer explained that he couldnt complete 
a road test because of the broken springs and that meant he couldnt comment on the 
banging or grinding noise that Mr O had said was coming from the engine. It was the 
engineers opinion that:
We would consider that the faults found would not have been present or developing at the 
point of purchase based on the dates provided.
But the independent engineer doesnt appear to have had the correct dates. Ive not for 
instance seen that he was aware Mr O had reported banging and grinding from the engine 
and the car dragging, as soon as hed collected the car. I think, if he had been aware of that, 
it would have been highly likely he would have considered the faults present at the point of 
supply, as I do.
Mr O arranged a diagnostic in January 2023 and that diagnostic confirmed that the timing 
belt and four coils needed to be replaced, and that the rear springs were broken. On the 
basis of Mr Os earlier reports I think it is likely all of these faults were present when the car 
was supplied to Mr O.
The relevant legislation doesnt allow the business to repair a fault if its complained of within 
the first 30 days. But here I think Mr O was initially happy for repairs to be completed. But 
those repairs havent been completed in a reasonable time and Mr O has explained that the 
engine has now failed on the car, and hes left it at the garage and returned it to SMF. 
Putting things right
I think the car should have been repaired when Mr O raised the issue. As those repairs have 
taken too long I think SMF should now allow Mr O to reject the car and end his finance 
agreement with them.
While we would usually allow the business to retain some of the finance instalments in 
respect of the use the consumer has had from the car, I dont think that would be fair here. 
Mr O has barely been able to drive the car since it was supplied to him. He complained 
about the faults immediately, and those faults were so significant that I think the mileage that 
was covered would have severely impacted Mr Os use of the car. Im asking SMF to refund 
all the finance instalments Mr O has paid and to waive any that were due and havent been 
paid. Theyll need to add interest to any refund.
Mr O has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes not, for instance, been able to fund 
another car whilst hes been paying for this one, and hes had to get the faults diagnosed, 
and arrange to be present at an independent inspection. Hes also had to use public 
transport and thats been particularly inconvenient as his partner is pregnant. In the 
circumstances, I think SMF should pay him £250 in compensation.
It was Mr Os decision to stop making payments towards his credit agreement. I cant, 
therefore, say SMF were wrong to record adverse reports on his credit file, or that they need 
to take any action with regard to the impact those adverse reports have had on Mr O. That 
said, as Im persuaded the car was of an unsatisfactory quality I will be asking SMF to now 
remove those adverse reports.
Mr O was asked to commission a diagnostic and that cost should be refunded to him with 
interest. Hes explained hes had to pay to have a reversing sensor fixed but I dont think it 
would be fair to ask SMF to refund that cost as Ive seen no evidence that it was a fault present when the car was supplied and, regardless, I would consider that a wear and tear 
issue for a car of this age and mileage. Mr O has also explained that he had to pay to have 
coils repaired. If he can provide a receipt for that work to SMF I think that is a cost that is 
likely to have been incurred as a consequence of a fault present at the point the car was 
supplied to him, as the need to replace coils was identified during the January diagnostic. In 
those circumstances, SMF should refund the repair cost and add interest.
Mr O is also unhappy that hes had to pay parking charges whilst the car has been left at the 
garage. The car wasnt driveable because it was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. So, 
I think the parking charges were incurred as a consequence of the quality issues and that it 
would be fair for SMF to refund them, with interest, if provided with receipts from Mr O.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell STARTLINE MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to:
Allow Mr O to reject the vehicle and end the finance agreement.
Refund any deposit that was paid and add 8% simple interest* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments Mr O has paid and waive any that havent been paid 
but were due. Add 8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr O £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in respect of 
this issue.
Refund the cost of the diagnostic and the cost of any coil repair on provision of 
receipts from Mr O. Add 8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Refund the cost of any parking charges incurred when the car was left at the garage. 
Add 8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman