DRN-1349206
The complaint
Mr N complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have unfairly 
declined a claim for theft under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ns car was stolen from the driveway at his home. Mr N reported this to the Police and 
contacted LV to make a claim. During the notification call LV asked Mr N for the 
circumstances of the theft. Mr N told it:
He didnt know how the car had been taken and there was no marks or debris on the 
driveway.
He was unsure when the car had been taken as he confirmed he had last seen it two 
days prior to the notification
He had the main key in the house, and he kept the spare key inside the car.
LV declined to cover Mr Ns claim as it said it was caught by the following exclusion, 
contained in the policy:
We wont pay for:
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if:




the ignition key or other ignition device is left in, on or attached to or left in the 
immediate proximity of your car.
Mr N complained to LV, his argument was that the key wasnt on display as he had said in 
the notification call but was inside the glove compartment. LV stood by its decision to decline 
the claim and so Mr N brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator that looked into the complaint didnt uphold it. In summary he said:
LV had fairly applied the exclusion and so was within its rights to decline the claim
The exclusion was sufficiently highlighted in Mr Ns policy documents for him to be 
aware of it
Mr N didnt agree and argued the keys being left in the car was not the cause of the theft and 
so the exclusion shouldnt be applied. He has also been advised by someone external to LV 
and this service, but with knowledge of the industry, that the exclusion has been 
misinterpreted and so shouldnt be applied.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr N that I think LV has acted fairly in applying the exclusion 
and declining his claim, Ill explain.
When a term or exclusion is significant as the one above is, we expect an insurer to highlight 
this in the policy documents it provides to a customer. In this case LV did that under the 
heading What is not insured. So, Im satisfied it did what it should here.
Moving to the exclusion, I dont agree with the advice Mr N has been given, that the 
exclusion has been misinterpreted. I think its clear from reading it - if the ignition key is left in 
the car then a claim for theft is not covered. The exclusion doesnt say leaving the key in the 
car has to have contributed to the cause of the theft. So, LV dont need to prove anything 
other than the key was in the car in order to apply it. As there is no dispute by either party 
that the key was in the car, I think its fair for LV to be able to apply the exclusion and decline 
Mr Ns claim.
While I do empathise with Mr Ns situation, I cant say LV has acted unfairly here and so I 
wont be asking it to do anything different to resolve matters for him. I know Mr N will be 
disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his 
dispute with LV can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman