DRN-2107418
The complaint
Mr L and Ms W complain that Soteria Insurance Limited didnt pay their full claim on their 
home insurance. 
Throughout the complaint Mr L and Ms W have been represented by a third party. For ease 
of reading all references to Mr L include the actions of Ms W and the third party 
representative. 
What happened
Mr L had home insurance with Soteria. In November 2018 there was a water leak at his 
home that caused damage to most of the rooms. Mr L called out an emergency plumber who 
identified the leak and fixed it. The same company then commenced repairs to the plumbing 
and electrics. Mr L made a claim on his insurance.
Soteria accepted the claim and discussed alternative accommodation with Mr L due to the 
extent of the damage. It asked him to source a rental property of a similar standard to his 
home. It took some time to find a suitable property and Mr L and his family didnt move into 
alternative accommodation until 21 days after the event.
During this time Mr L presented Soteria with the costs of the strip out and repair work that 
was being carried out by his appointed contractor. On reviewing the costs Soteria said it 
wouldnt pay the full claim as Mr L hadnt got its authorisation before the work commenced. It 
said this is a requirement under the policy. It agreed to pay £5,000 for the plumbing and 
£4,000 for the electricity repairs. However it agreed it hadnt been clear about requiring 
authorisation for strip out works so said it would pay these in full.
It also paid disturbance allowance to cover costs for the 21 days Mr L and his family were 
living at home before being place in alternative accommodation.
Mr L didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. He said the policy wording Soteria was 
referring to related to getting authorisation before agreeing to third party claims and not 
arranging repairs. So he thought the full cost of the work should be paid. He also said 
Soteria should pay the cost of alternative accommodation for the 21 days and not just 
disturbance allowance. 
Further, he said due to Soterias poor handling of the claim hed had to instruct a lawyer and 
he thought Soteria should pay for the related costs. Finally he said Soteria had caused him 
and his family significant distress, particularly due to his son becoming unwell while having 
to live in a water damaged house, and should compensate them for this.
Soteria upheld Mr Ls complaint. It said it had been unclear in its communication about the 
strip out works. So it said it would pay tax and interest on top of the amount paid for these 
works. It also offered £500 compensation to make up for the distress its shortfalls would 
have caused. However it maintained its position about the plumbing and electric works and 
said legal fees arent covered under the policy. 
Mr L didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ls complaint be upheld. He said he agreed a 
condition of the policy required the insured to seek the insurers authorisation before 
commencing works. And he didnt agree that this related only to third party claims. He also 
said it was Mr Ls decision to instruct a lawyer and this cost isnt covered under the policy so 
Soteria were fair not pay this. He said he thought Soteria had done all it could to secure 
alternative accommodation in good time and was satisfied that the disturbance allowance 
paid was fair in the circumstance. He thought £500 was enough to make up for the distress 
Soteria had caused Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He said he didnt think the term in the policy 
was clear and maintained that it relates to only third party claims. Further he said the policy 
says the insured must take steps to prevent further loss or damage and he said he was 
doing this by getting the repair work done as quickly as possible. Finally he said that 
instructing a lawyer had caused Soteria to pay out part of the claim, which shows he did 
require their help in the claim. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has raised a number of separate complaint points, I have addressed those I feel are 
most relevant in turn below.
Policy wording
Soteria has said that its a condition of the policy that Mr L is required to seek authorisation 
for any repair work before it commences. It says because the work wasnt authorised, it 
wont agree to cover the full amount. Mr L disputes the policy requires this.
Ive looked at the policy wording. Under claims it states:
Should you wish to make a claim under your home insurance policy you should call the 
Claims Helpline on 0330 159 1200. You must not settle, reject, negotiate or agree to pay any 
claim without Our written permission
And later I the policy under General conditions it states:
5. Your obligations following a claim.
In the event of a claim or possible claim under this policy, you must not negotiate, admit fault 
or make any offer, promise or payment without your insurer's written consent.
Mr L has said that he thinks this applies only to third party claims on the policy, so wouldnt 
apply to arranging repair work for a personal claim. 
Ive considered this and I agree the wording of these sections of the policy is a little unclear. 
However I have to consider what a reasonable interpretation of these terms would be, in the 
context of the policy. 
The first section Ive quoted above appears in the important information section at the start 
of the policy, under the heading claims. It begins by explaining how you would make a claim 
on the policy. I therefore think its reasonable to conclude that the next sentence refers to 
claims in general as well, rather than to only third party claims. In fact, I would go as far as to say the wording would be more unclear if this part was intended to only apply to third party 
claims, as it follows information about all claims on the policy. 
The second section Ive quoted appears under the general conditions section of the policy. 
It is the only part of this section that refers directly to obligations an insured has when they 
make a claim. So I would consider it unusual and misleading if this only related to third party 
claims.  
Further, the policy does have terms that relate only to third party claims. And when it does, 
these are referred to as third party claims. 
I should also add that in my experience, this isnt an unusual policy term. Its quite common 
in home insurance policies that the insurer will need to authorise work before it commences. 
This is because the insurer needs to assess the work being completed and the cost to make 
sure it meets its liability under the policy, before it agrees to cover it.
So for these reasons, I think a reasonable interpretation of the terms Ive quote above is that 
they would apply to all claims and not just third party claims. So I think Soteria has acted 
fairly by relying on this term in this case.
Claim decision
Mr L says that if he was required to get written authorisation before appointing a contractor, 
then this should have been made clear to him when he called to make the claim. 
Having listened to the calls provided and considering the notes from Soterias loss adjuster, 
Ive not seen any evidence to say Soteria told Mr L to go ahead with the work without 
authorisation. And while it didnt bring the condition to Mr Ls attention, I dont think this was 
unreasonable. The policy includes a number of conditions and it is the insureds 
responsibility to ensure it meets these. I dont think its reasonable to expect the insurer to 
bring all relevant conditions to the insureds attention when a claim is made. 
Under the general conditions sections of the policy it states:
You must comply with these conditions. If you do not, the insurer may refuse to pay a claim 
or your policy may be affected.
So where the general conditions arent met, Soteria can refuse a claim in full. However it has 
paid £5,000 towards the plumbing costs and £4,000 towards the electricity, as well as 
reimbursing Mr L for the strip out works in full. And I think thats fair in the circumstances.
 
Legal costs
Mr L says he has paid around £17,000 in legal costs, due to Soterias poor management of 
the claim and therefore thinks it should reimburse him.
I appreciate Mr L has spent a large amount instructing a lawyer. And I understand this has 
been a stressful and expensive claim for him, so I can appreciate why he made this decision. 
However this was a decision he made, in the knowledge of the costs attached. And it isnt 
something he was required to do in order to handle the claim. So I dont think it would be fair 
to ask Soteria to reimburse these costs.Alternative Accommodation
Mr L has said Soteria should have done more to ensure he and his family were put into 
alternative accommodation more quickly. He says they had to live in unsuitable conditions 
for 21 days and this affected his sons health. 
I understand this claim has had a big impact on Mr L and his family. And I can see how 
distressing it would have been in the first few weeks after the leak, particularly given his son 
became unwell. However in this complaint, I have to consider Soterias actions and whether 
it treated Mr L fairly and reasonably. Rather than the impact of the leak itself.
When the claim was raised Soteria offered Mr L and his family alternative accommodation 
straight away. It initially suggested a short term stay in a hotel, while something longer term 
was found. But this wasnt suitable due to the familys pets. I can see it then took some time 
for an appropriate rental property to be sourced and this meant they he and his family stayed 
at their property during this time. I understand this would have been distressing and Im 
really sorry to hear it had an impact on his sons health.
However I have considered whether Soteria treated Mr L fairly, and in the circumstances I 
think it did. It offered Mr L an option that would allow him and his family to move out of the 
house very quickly, and it included kennel costs in this offer. Mr L has explained that one of 
his dogs was very unwell so kennels wouldnt have been appropriate and I understand this 
decision. But considering there were no suitable rental properties available at the time, I 
dont think Soteria could have reasonably done anything more.
Mr L says he found a suitable property but Soteria didnt agree to it, which delayed the family 
moving out of their home. The property he found was a six bedroom house, and his home 
has four bedrooms. The policy says it will provide: The cost of comparable alternative 
accommodation. And Soteria said this property wasnt comparable so wouldnt be 
covered. 
I appreciate this would be disappointing for Mr L. However I dont think Soteria acted 
unreasonably by not agreeing to the property, as it wasnt comparable to their home. Further 
Soteria provided an alternative option for short term accommodation. So I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Soteria has paid Mr L £630 disturbance allowance for the 21 days it wasnt able to provide 
alternative accommodation. And thats what I would recommend it do, if it hadnt already.
For these reasons, while I dont doubt how distressing it would have been for Mr L to have to 
remain in his property after the leak, I dont think Soteria acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything further in relation to the alternative 
accommodation. 
Compensation
Mr L has said that due to its poor handling of the claim and the impact this has had on him 
and his family, Soteria should pay additional compensation to make up for the distress 
caused. 
I can see this has been a long and stressful claim for Mr L and it has clearly caused him a lot 
of distress. However I can only consider the impact the actions of Soteria has had on him. 
And, for the reasons Ive already given, I dont think its treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Soteria has accepted it provided some unclear information about the strip out works. And it 
has offered £500 compensation to make up for any distress it caused. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. So I wont ask it to pay anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr L and Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman