DRN-3082913
The complaint
A charity, which Ill call A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc declined its 
application for a bank account and caused delays, meaning the charity couldnt accept 
donations.
The complaint has been brought by the charitys director, Mr A.
What happened
Mr A had an existing personal and business relationship with NatWest. So in March 2020, he 
applied to the bank for a charity account for A. However, the application didnt progress as 
NatWest said it needed further information which wasnt received before the application 
expired.
A applied again in mid-May, and in early July, NatWest declined the application. In error, the 
bank said it had declined As application for a charity account as Mr A didnt have an account 
with NatWest. But as this wasnt true, so Mr A made a complaint. He said NatWest had 
unfairly declined As application and taken too long to make the decision  which meant A 
had missed out on charity donations.
NatWest upheld the complaint in part. The bank agreed it had taken too long to provide Mr A 
with an update on As application, so it apologised and paid £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience. However NatWest didnt think it had unfairly declined As application, as it 
said A didnt meet the banks lending criteria for an account  but it wouldnt disclose the 
exact reason for this. 
The bank also clarified in a follow up letter to Mr A that hed incorrectly been told A needed 
to have a business account to be eligible for a charity account. NatWest said Mr A should 
have been told that as the money was being transferred abroad, it would need the details for 
the crediting account. The bank also reiterated it didnt have to tell Mr A the reason As 
application had been declined.  
Mr A didnt agree and asked this service to look into As complaint. He said NatWest had 
declined the charities application without giving him a reason and said it didnt have to tell 
him - which he thought was unfair.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said she couldnt award 
Mr A compensation for distress and inconvenience as it was As complaint and not his own. 
She also said she couldnt look at financial losses from missed donations to A as these 
wouldnt have been guaranteed. 
The investigator also said it was reasonable for the bank to decline As application, but she 
thought it had taken too long for NatWest to make its decision. And the bank had given Mr A 
conflicting information which had delayed charity contributions to A as they could have 
opened an account elsewhere more quickly. So she recommended the bank increase the 
compensation by a further £100 for the inconvenience caused to A.
NatWest agreed with the investigators view but Mr A didnt. He said £200 wasnt enough 
compensation for the time A had waited for a decision and the time hed spent trying to open 
As account. So Mr A asked for an ombudsman to look into the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why. 
Application delays and outcome communication
Mr A is unhappy as he feels NatWest took too long to process As account application which 
started in March 2020. Ive looked at the case notes from NatWest which shows the bank 
needed further information from A to process the original application, and when this wasnt 
received the application expired. I asked the bank to provide further information on what was 
requested, as the 90 days recorded on the case notes isnt correct based on when the 
application was submitted. 
Unfortunately, as the application expired, NatWest has only been able to provide limited 
information about the transactions that took place relating to it. So I have to base my 
decision on the information available. From what I can see, it appears the bank werent able 
to obtain the required information for it to be satisfied it could proceed with the application. 
And when this wasnt received before the deadline, the application expired. I think this is 
reasonable as the NatWest had checks it needed to complete and it wasnt able to do so.
However, Ive seen that when A submitted a new application in May 2020 it took several 
months for the bank to make a decision to decline the application  which I dont think was 
fair. I say this because our investigator noted that NatWests website said it should take 
around for weeks for a community account  although due to the time thats passed there is 
no record of this, it hasnt been disputed by either party, so I have no reason to doubt this is 
the case. 
As part of its account opening process, NatWest has said it needed details of the account 
number abroad the money would have been credited to, and it wasnt able to process the 
application without this. Given that the bank is entitled to request this information so it can be 
satisfied it is meeting its regulatory requirements, I cant say it was unreasonable that the 
application wasnt progressed without this information. However, the bank hasnt been able 
to provide details about how or when this information was requested, so I cant say it treated 
A fairly in how the application was progressed. 
Ive also seen that Mr A was initially given incorrect information about the reason As account 
was declined. I dont think this had a material impact on As application, as Ive seen a copy 
of NatWests lending criteria and Im satisfied that A didnt meet that criteria and therefore 
wouldnt have been eligible for the account at any point. However, I recognise this added to 
Mr As frustration and concern that the bank hadnt assessed As application fairly. So 
overall, I dont think the bank treated A fairly in the time it took to reach a decision on the 
application or in the way it communicated the reasons for that decision.  
Mr A has also told us he feels its unfair NatWest wont tell him the reason it declined As 
application. But it isnt obligated to do so. I acknowledge A was able to open an account with 
a different bank, but this doesnt mean NatWest have done something wrong. Different 
lenders have different criteria in terms of the types of business and risk they are prepared to 
take. Ultimately the bank has the discretion to decide if it wants to offer an account, and Im satisfied NatWest applied its lending criteria fairly to As application.
Loss of donations
I acknowledge Mr A feels the compensation offered isnt enough to cover the losses to A 
caused by the delay, and that hes provided invoices showing payments made to As new 
account with the third-party lender. However, although those donations were received after 
the account had been opened, it doesnt mean they would automatically have been received 
by the charity sooner if NatWest had opened the account, or that they would have been at 
the same level hes shown. 
Given that A was opening a new charity account, there arent any previous donations to 
show what A would historically have received over that period. This means any losses for 
the period A was without an account would be speculative and Im unable to make an award 
on this basis. 
Personal impact and compensation
Mr A has told us about the personal impact to hes felt because of NatWests actions. And 
whilst I do understand his position due to the issues A has experienced, I can only award 
compensation to the person(s) or entity bringing the complaint to this service  which in this 
case is A. As a charity cant be caused distress, I can only look at the inconvenience caused 
to it by NatWests actions.
I recognise Mr A feels strongly about this. But based on what Ive seen, I think it was 
reasonable for NatWest to decline As application without telling Mr A the reason for this. 
However, I dont think the bank processed As application in a reasonable timeframe which 
caused A inconvenience. So I think NatWest should increase the compensation it has 
already paid by a further £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct NatWest Bank Plc to pay A 
an additional £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman