DRN-3158466
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc unfairly closed their accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H say they received a text message to check their account balance which they 
did and discovered their money wasnt in the accounts. They say they spent some time 
speaking to TSB about this and were told their accounts had been closed and the account 
balance sent by cheque to their home address in Dubai. Mr and Mrs H were concerned 
about the security of that decision and would like to know the exact reasons for what took 
place. They say TSB knew they lived in Dubai as it had called them on their Dubai telephone 
numbers.
TSB says it is entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close an account by giving 
60 days notice. It says it wrote to Mr and Mrs H in December 2020 to their United Kingdom 
address and closed the accounts after 60 days. TSB accepts it didnt deal with parts of the 
complaint as it should and has paid £350 compensation and says the cheque wasnt sent to 
Dubai.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought TSB was entitled to 
close an account by giving 60 days notice. And also thought the compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H dont accept that view and say they are not concerned about the part of the 
complaint that TSB has paid compensation for but are concerned that the accounts were 
closed which caused them distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate their concern 
when they found out that there wasnt any money in their accounts.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Hs account terms and conditions which I think they would have 
agreed to when the accounts were first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
TSB can close an account by giving 60 days notice and is not obliged to provide a reason.
Im satisfied TSB wrote to Mr and Mrs H in December 2020 and closed the accounts in 
February 2021. I think appropriate notice was given. So, it follows that I dont think TSB 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by closing the accounts and that it acted in line with agreed 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H say that TSB knew they lived in Dubai. But I think the key issue 
here is that Mr and Mrs H didnt formally update their address on TSBs systems and so in 
those circumstances Im satisfied TSB was reasonably entitled to write to the address it held 
for Mr and Mrs H.
I dont intend to comment on the compensation award for part of the complaint as I can see 
that Mr and Mrs H have accepted it and have told us that isnt the main part of the complaint.
I also dont think the cheque for the account balance was ever sent to Mr and Mrs Hs Dubai 
address and think it unlikely it would have been sent in any event.
Overall, I find TSB was entitled to close Mr and Mrs Hs accounts and that it gave them 
required notice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman