DRN-4085146
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited took too long to confirm cover under his private 
health insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. It accepts that it 
unreasonably delayed accepting Mr Rs claim. Vitality offered £150 compensation to Mr 
R in addition to waiving the excess payable under the policy in the sum of £100. I know 
hell be disappointed but, for the reasons set out below, Im satisfied compensation 
totalling £250 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr R experienced because of 
Vitalitys unnecessary delays.
The policy was underwritten on moratorium basis, which started in November 
2021 (and renewed in November 2022). Given the terms of the policy, I dont 
think Vitality acted unreasonably by wanting to obtain further information from Mr 
R about his symptoms and then, medical information from his GP to assess 
whether the claim was covered under the policy.
I think it promptly requested information from his GP, and updated Mr R to tell 
him that this had been done. I dont think it was unfair of Vitality to tell Mr R that 
the information might be more quickly obtained, if he also contacted his GP 
directly. 
Vitality first requested Mr Rs medical information towards the end of November 
2022. I make no finding on whether Vitality reasonably ought to have chased Mr 
Rs GP for medical information before receiving the GPs response, towards the 
end of December 2022. Even if Vitality ought to have chased the GP in the 
circumstances of this particular case - given the nature of the claim being made  
the evidence from both parties reflects that Mr R didnt contact Vitality during 
December for an update. So, even if Vitality ought to have chased which might 
have led to the medical information being received sooner, I dont think Mr R was 
put to any inconvenience during that time.
Once the medical information from the GP was received, Im satisfied Vitality 
promptly approved cover including for initial investigation and diagnosis. 
However, it didnt contact Mr R until early February 2023 to confirm  and that 
was after Mr R had chased Vitality for an update towards the end of January 
2023. Vitality accepts its error.
Vitality has apologised to Mr R, said feedback will be provided and any training 
issues addressed. Its also offered Mr R £150 compensation and offered to waive 
his excess of £100 in respect of the approved medical investigations. I accept 
that it wouldve been very upsetting for Mr R to learn that investigations had been 
approved weeks before Vitality communicated this to him, particularly in the 
circumstances he found himself in. But, overall, Im satisfied that the offer made 
by Vitality in recognition for what went wrong fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced.
I know Mr R feels very strongly that those with private medical insurance 
shouldnt have to chase medical professionals or their insurer, particularly when 
faced with a potentially serious medical condition needing treatment. And hes 
concerned that others may have their lives put at risk by Vitality. However, Im 
looking at the circumstances of his individual complaint. 
Mr R also says investigations into his symptoms wouldve happened sooner on 
the NHS. Its possible they wouldve. However, for the reasons set out above, Im 
satisfied that the offer made by Vitality to put things right is fair and reasonable in 
this case. Mr R also says he was anxious and in pain whilst he waited for Vitality 
to confirm cover under his policy. However, I think I wouldve reasonably 
expected Mr R to have contacted Vitality for an update before the end of January 
2023 if he was in significant discomfort and anxious about the delay in confirming 
cover. So, on a balance of probabilities, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to award further compensation to reflect pain and suffering  or unnecessary 
anxiety during that time. 
Putting things right
Mr R didnt accept Vitalitys offer, so it hasnt been paid to him. I direct Vitality to:
- pay Mr R £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced;
- waive the excess of £100 for the approved claim. If the excess has already been 
paid by Mr R, Vitality should reimburse this to him. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. Vitality Health Limited should put things right as set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman