DRN-4435753
The complaint
Ms M complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) restricted her account and withheld 
the funds held in it. 
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this Ms M couldnt access her funds.
In August 2021, Ms M received communication from Epayments to start the process of 
releasing her money. In October 2022, Ms M was able to transfer out over half of her funds. 
But at the end of October 2022, Epayments had to put a temporary pause on its process of 
refunds to ensure it met its legal obligations.
Unhappy Ms M complained. Epayments didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. In its response, and 
in summary, some of the key points Epayments made were: 
- As part of the refund process and in accordance with its renewed Know Your 
Customer (KYC) requirements, Epayments has started contacting its customers who 
are yet to access their funds with a request for additional information. Its required by 
regulations to ensure the information it holds about customer accounts is accurate 
and up to date before processing a refund 
- Epayments sent Ms M renewed requests to provide information it needs to meet its 
KYC obligations from late 2022 and through 2023. Epayments apologised for any 
inconvenience the process was causing her, but reasserted it needed to do this to 
meet its obligations. Epayments set-out what it needed from Ms M and in what format 
Ms M referred her complaint to this service. Epayments told one of our Investigators that it 
needed more information from Ms M before it could refund her remaining funds. It also 
offered to pay 1% of her balance from February 2020 and £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms M did not accept this as a resolution to her complaint. One of our Investigators looked 
into Ms Ms complaint. In summary, they found:
- Once Ms M completes Epayments KYC checks, the remaining funds in her account 
should be refunded to her 
- Epayments is responsible for Ms M not having access to her funds. Thats because 
its accounts were restricted due to weaknesses in its financial crime controls that 
were identified by the FCA
- As Ms M was deprived of her funds, Epayments should compensate her by paying 
8% simple interest on them from when they were first blocked up until settlement
- Epayments should pay Ms M £150 compensation for the inconvenience it caused
- Epayments, and its partners, may have charged currency conversion fees and 
commissions when refunding any balances. Its not fair for Ms M to pay any fees or 
charges for accessing her funds  so Epayments should refund such fees and 
charges if imposed against Ms M
Ms M agreed with what our Investigator said but reiterated she was having issues with 
Epayments asking for more information for its KYC review. 
Epayments did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points it made 
were: 
- Epayments is required by the FCA to withhold the funds until the FCAs Know Your 
Customer (KYC) checks are outstanding
- Epayments hasnt breached its contract with Ms M
- This service has no evidence that Ms M would not have either put the funds into 
another non-interest-bearing EMI (Electronic Money Institution) account or invested 
in a highly lucrative investment vehicle. Therefore the award of 8% is inappropriate
- The ombudsman service should refrain from making any award that interferes with its 
ability to wind down in an orderly manner in the interests of all its customers
As Epayments didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This impacted Ms M, given she had no access to her 
funds from February 2020.
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Ms Ms funds during this period. Epayments say it 
shouldnt be held liable for any detriment to Ms M whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed.
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact Ms M has been deprived of her funds through no fault of 
her own.
Ms M had around £7,500 refunded to her in 2022. But funds remain in her account. I note 
Epayments has been asking Ms M for information related to checks its obligated to carry out. 
Ms M says she is finding the process frustrating and Epayments keep asking for new 
information which is delaying matters.
As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and regulatory 
obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes KYC checks and/or 
Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
So any refund of funds should be subject to these checks. Its worth noting these checks 
include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
Epayments argue there isnt any way of knowing how Ms M would have used her funds 
should she have had access to them. Awarding 8% simple interest when a regulated 
businesses customer has wrongly been deprived of their funds is in line with the approach 
at this service. I havent seen compelling enough reasons why Ms M shouldnt be awarded 
compensation in this way, so Im satisfied this is fair redress.
Im also satisfied £150 compensation is fair award for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused Ms M. In reaching this award, Ive considered what Ms M says shes had 
to do to in getting the matter resolved, and the stress and worry it has caused her. 
When Epayments is able to release all the funds to Ms M, I dont think its fair or reasonable 
for it, or its banking partners, to charge them any conversion or commission fees. So these 
should not be applied  and they should be refunded if already applied on the partial refund 
it made in 2022. 
Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not my 
intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of our 
service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint.
Putting things right
Epayments must satisfy its legal and regulatory obligations - which include any KYC or CDD 
checks - before releasing the remaining funds to Ms M. Once its able to do this, Epayments 
must do the following to put things right:
- Pay 8% simple interest on Ms Ms funds from when it first restricted their access up 
until settlement*. 
So this will mean Epayments must pay 8% simple interest on the amount its already 
released to Ms M from when it first restricted the account until the day it sent this 
amount to her. And it should pay 8% simple interest on the remaining balance from 
when the account was first restricted up until settlement
- Not apply any fees or charges when releasing the funds to Ms M  as detailed above. 
If it or its banking partner do apply such charges or already has, they should be 
refunded
- Pay Ms M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
*If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman