DRN-3438484
The complaint
Mr T, on behalf of A complaints that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim on As business insurance policy. 
All references to Hiscox in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
A made a claim on its business insurance policy for problems it experienced arising out of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. In particular, Mr T said A furloughed its staff in March 2020 due to 
the government-imposed lockdown as it had to refrain from working on existing contracts on 
its clients premises. Mr T asked Hiscox to consider its claim for financial loss arising out of 
this.
Hiscox considered As claim but said that the policy it had wouldnt provide cover in those 
circumstances because A didnt have business interruption insurance. Mr T accepts the 
policy doesnt cover business interruption but he thinks there are several elements of it that 
respond in these circumstances. He referred As complaint to this Service accordingly. 
Our investigator considered As complaint and concluded it wasnt one that attracted the sort 
of cover A was looking for. Mr T made various submissions in response to the investigators 
view which the investigator responded to. Because Mr T doesnt accept what the investigator 
has said, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the Covid-19 pandemic has had 
on A. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The type of cover A is looking to claim on is professional indemnity, public and products 
liability, employers liability, crisis containment and Business HR insurance. There are a
range of business policies on the market covering different risks.  For example, some only 
provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide cover in more 
circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting point is to 
consider the specific policy A took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of
the policy A holds with Hiscox to determine whether there are any sections that would
require Hiscox to meet the claim like the one A is making.
Mr T has told us that A wasnt able to operate as it normally would have due to the 
government-imposed lockdown.
The policy provides cover for several things, including crisis containment and employers 
liability. Ive considered each of them below.
Crisis containment 
Mr T says the Covid-19 pandemic amounted to a crisis so the policy should respond to As 
claim.
The policy covers: 
crisis containment costs incurred within the geographical limits with our prior
written consent as a direct result of a crisis commencing during the period of
insurance.
Crisis is defined as: 
a time of severe difficulty in your activities or danger to your business as a result of
an insured incident that could, if left unmanaged, cause adverse or negative publicity of
or media attention to you or your business
What is not covered: We will not make any payment for: 1. Crisis Containment Costs
relating to any claim or part of a claim not covered by this policy. 
Ive looked at the policy in detail but there isnt another section of the policy that covers the 
claim that A is seeking to make. Its a condition of this section of the policy that the claim is 
one which attracts cover and theres nothing in it that extends to covering business losses 
as a result of having to furlough staff. And given the wording of this section I think its 
reasonably clear that its intended to cover problems that cause adverse or negative 
publicity or media attention to A. I dont think A having to furlough staff was something that 
would have caused negative media attention to A as this was something many businesses 
had to do during the pandemic. 
As the investigator explained, this section of the policy wouldnt pay the claim A is making 
here in any event. Thats because costs would be limited to Reasonable and necessary 
costs incurred in utilising the service of the crisis containment provider to limit or mitigate 
the impact of a crisis. 
I know Mr T feels strongly that A was mitigating a crisis by furloughing staff but a valid claim 
would only pay out for the services of a crisis containment provider (as defined by the policy) 
and not for the losses A is claiming.
Mr T has referred to a section of the key benefits noted under the policy which he says 
states In an emergency we will pay for costs incurred outside working hours without our 
consent, which mitigates the impact of a crisis, up to the amount shown in the policy 
schedule." Its important to read this in conjunction with the policy terms Ive referred to 
above rather than in isolation. As Ive said before I dont think the situation A is claiming for 
meets the definition of Crisis as set out by the policy so I cant say its a claim Hiscox 
should cover. 
Employers Liability
This section of the policy provides cover where there are claims made against A specifically. 
Broadly, this relates to claims by staff for bodily injury, criminal proceedings as well as 
claims made by third parties.Mr T says this section covers disease but thats in circumstances where an employee is 
diagnosed with a disease in the workplace then brings a claim against A in respect of this. It 
doesnt respond where A has furloughed staff as a result of the outbreak of a disease. 
Because of this I havent considered this section any further as its simply not applicable to 
the claim A is seeking to bring.
Case Law
Mr T has referred to the outcome of the Supreme Courts test case on business interruption 
insurance policies which he feels supports As claim. Hes also referred to case law in 
relation to asbestosis as a workplace disease. 
As Mr T has said himself, As claim is not for business interruption because A doesnt have 
this type of cover. Because of this the test case relevant to those policies doesnt apply here.
The claim A is seeking cover for is not to defend a claim brought by an employee in relation 
to contracting Covid-19- its for losses incurred as a result of furloughing staff. So, case law 
in relation to employers liability also doesnt apply here either.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold As complaint against Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman