DRN-3920501
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance), (BPF) unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs O purchased points from a holiday operator, I will call C in May 2011. The total 
cost was £12,300, which was paid for by way of a loan from BPF. The loan was repaid in 
November 2014. The loan was in Mr Os name and so for simplicity I will refer to him as the 
purchaser in this decision.
In July 2018, Mr O, using a professional representative (S), made a claim against BPF 
under s.75 and s.140A CCA for problems he said he had had with the timeshare. In 
summary, he said:
The nature of the product had been misrepresented to him.
No affordability checks were undertaken
High pressure sales tactics were used
He was told he was purchasing an investment
S says it believes C was receiving undisclosed commission from BPF
S argues that C may have acted as an unregulated broker
S argues that the relationship was unfair
BPF rejected the claim on the basis that it was made out of time. It also explained that Mr O 
had not bought fractional membership, but rather he had initially acquired a floating 
timeshare week and then surrendered this for membership and additional points. It said he 
had never acquired any fractional points. It also set out a list of all the holiday bookings 
made by Mr O.
S brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. S argued that s. 32 Limitation Act allowed for an 
extension of the time limit in cases of fraud. It said that there had been deliberate and gross 
misrepresentation. It said Mr O only realised he had been mis-sold the timeshare in 2019.
Our investigator thought that the claim Mr O made for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA 
and that under s 140A had been made in time as required by the provisions in the LA. 
However he did not think there was evidence to suggest there had been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation.
S disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. It said Mr O felt 
trapped by C and the loan would last until 2029 beyond Mr Os retirement age. The credit 
assessment had not been sufficient and had not taken account of his retirement. It said C 
had not provided evidence of its agreement with BPF and it suggested there may be a 
conflict of interest. It also appealed to a sense of fairness rather than looking at the detail of 
the law.
It also said that C changed its relinquishment policy in 2015 whereby a member could end 
their agreement by paying two years management fees. That meant there was no reason for 
the final purchase of points to have been made. It added that Mr O had been told that he 
was making an investment in property but he had no rights over property. S expressed at 
some length how it believed the value of the product had been misrepresented. It also made 
points relating to the earlier purchases.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice.
I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been said and provided, I may not 
address every point that has been raised. 
Section 75
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under s. 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases 
of goods or services. Under s. 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the 
provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For s. 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
S 56 and 140A
S 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations between 
Mr O and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for BPF. This includes 
any representations made by C and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr O and the lender.
The claim has been made in time and so I am able to consider the complaint about BPFs 
rejection of it. I can only consider the matter which was the subject of the complaint i.e. the 
March 2016 purchase. If Mr O has a separate complaint about the preceding purchases then 
he will have to make that to the lender concerned before this service can consider it.Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement. I would add that I have taken note of the relevant extract from Chitty 
referred to by S in its representations.
I cannot say what was actually said during the meeting when the purchase was made. I am 
aware that sales representatives will prioritise the positives of the product they are selling, 
but that does not mean that this amounts to a false statement of fact. Much of what is said 
can be put down to the expression of an opinion or a view.
As our investigator has explained that the sales aids and training used by C give us some 
insight into what they would likely have seen and been told during the verbal part of the sale.
These aids highlight an imbalance in information, favouring the emotional and tangible 
benefits people would receive if they became a member and limited information on how the 
product functioned and how much it would ultimately cost across the term once maintenance 
fees and associated finance were factored in.
These aids are carefully structured and so if properly used the likelihood of 
misrepresentation occurring is reduced. I havent seen sufficient information to suggest the 
product wasnt suitable for Mr O. BPF has also set out the 10 reservations made by Mr O 
between July 2016 and October 2017. That would suggest that he was not seeking a way 
out of the earlier agreement, but rather was seeking to make use of the holidays that C 
offered.
I cannot say what actually happened and while I do not doubt their recollection I cannot say 
that this is sufficient to allow me to overlook the documentary material.
In summary there is nothing in the documentation I have seen which was signed by Mr O 
that shows any misrepresentation.
S 140A Unfair Relationship
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by C. I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that Cs actions 
as an agent of C generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to S Mr O was pressurised into taking out the agreement. I can 
understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these sales meetings 
ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the benefits of the 
product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on 
the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the 
offer.
I have also taken note of the fact that this was the last of four holiday product purchases 
made by Mr O and so I am not persuaded that he was unaware of what he was purchasing 
or of the associated costs.In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr O was unreasonably pressurised to 
sign the agreement.
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe Mr O was aware he was buying a holiday product with C. The paperwork set out 
the length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that it was subject to 
availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what Mr O thought he was acquiring and 
what he actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair 
relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. My 
understanding that the rates of commission paid by BPF were relatively low and so I think its 
unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this case created an 
unfair relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s. 140A.
Were the proper checks carried out when BPF agreed to lend to Mr O
S says BPF failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to him. Even if I were to 
conclude that BPF or its agents didnt carry out the proper checks for creditworthiness and 
affordability when arranging a loan for Mr O, I would still need to be satisfied that the lending 
was unaffordable for him and/or that he lost out as a result, in order to uphold this part of his 
complaint. Ive seen nothing to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed 
payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the loan.
I would add that I have not seen any persuasive evidence that the checks which were 
carried out were insufficient.
Conclusion
While I have taken note of the wider issues relating to holiday products set out by S I do not 
consider I can uphold this complaint.
BPF responded and said it considered the claim under s 75 was out of time and it said it 
wasnt aware of the purchase in 2016. I explained that the reference to 2016 was a 
typographical error. Neither Mr O nor S have responded.
I issued a second provisional decision which read as follows:
I am issuing this as a provisional decision even though my conclusion remains the same my 
reasoning has altered in part.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit Act, a business is 
exercising its rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business has failed to fulfil its obligations under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event complained of is BPFs decision to decline the 
claim Mr O made in July 2018 regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. Mr O then 
complained after making the claim, which is well within the six year time limit specified in the 
rules.
This means that I can consider his complaint about the claim. However, I have also to 
consider the effect of the Limitation Act.
Mr O says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him 
and his wife them when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr O had to make 
that claim within six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  
which was in May 2011  because that is when he says he lost out having relied on false 
statements of fact. As Mr O first made a claim in July 2018, that fell outside of the time limit 
set out in the LA. As such I cannot say that BPF was wrong to reject the claim on the basis 
that it was made out of time.
S 140A and Affordability
Neither party has commented on these elements of my provisional decision and so I do not 
consider I need add to what I said in that decision. 
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add and no response has been received from 
either Mr O or S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no reasons have been given which would cause me to change my provisional decision it 
remains as set out above
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman