DRN-3214781
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Chetwood Financial Limited dealt with his renewal request for a 
fixed term account he held with them. 
What happened
Mr L held a fixed term account with Chetwood which was due to mature on 28 November 
2020. He accessed his account online on 24 November 2020 to let Chetwood know about 
his instructions for renewal of the account, however when doing so he saw that the money 
was being returned to him. Mr L contacted Chetwood who told him the window for renewal 
instructions had closed the previous day, and since no instruction had been received the 
funds were being returned. 
Mr L complained about this saying he wanted to renew the account for a new term. 
Chetwood said this wasnt possible, but when looking into the complaint they said their 
renewal instructions werent as clear as they could have been. Because of this they gave Mr 
L a link to their website where he could reapply for a new account. Mr L reapplied, however 
the application for a new account was declined. 
Chetwood told Mr L that his application couldnt be completed for security reasons and gave 
him some information about the type of checks they conduct when opening new accounts. 
Whilst acknowledging this was frustrating and disappointing, they were unable to provide an 
exact reason for the decline. 
Remaining unhappy Mr L brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators 
looked into what happened. Whilst acknowledging the frustration they said Chetwood wasnt 
obliged to give the exact reasons for the decline. Mr L couldnt see why Chetwood would 
decline the application and thinks they acted unfairly. Because of this complaint has come to 
me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start I want to acknowledge how frustrating it is for Mr L that Chetwood hasnt provided 
an exact reason for their decision to decline the application. Businesses all have their own 
set of confidential policies, procedures and checks they conduct when opening accounts. 
These are confidential to each business and in their final response Chetwood gave Mr L 
some examples of the types of checks they conduct, and their reasons for doing so. 
Because of the interconnected nature of these checks, and business confidentiality, its not 
my place to ask Chetwood to disclose the exact nature of the checks, nor the results. 
However looking at what I do know about what happened Im satisfied they acted fairly and 
reasonably when conducting the checks they did. 
Chetwood said they thought the emails during the time coming up to renewal couldve been 
clearer. They say they couldve included specific dates about the window for making renewal 
decisions and theyve apologised for this. And I agree the emails couldve been clearer. Had 
that been the case I think Mr L would more than likely have contacted Chetwood within the 
window allowed for renewal instructions. The point to consider further is if the unclear emails 
about the renewal window dates affected Mr L in any substantial way. And looking at what 
happened I dont think it did. 
When renewing the type of account Mr L held with Chetwood the renewal is treated in the 
same way as a new account application - it doesnt simply rollover for a new term. Chetwood 
conduct the same usual checks for a renewal as they do for a new application. So this 
means that even if Mr L had been more clearly notified of the renewal window, and if he had 
made a renewal choice at that time, hed be in the same position as he is in now because 
the application wouldve been declined due to the checks. 
Chetwood says that since Mr L first opened the account theyve continued to build on and 
improve the checks they carry out. So even if Mr Ls situation hadnt changed since the 
account was first opened, the checks carried out have changed. This could be an 
explanation for why the application was declined.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Chetwood acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr L. I can see Mr Ls frustration, however I dont think 
Chetwood made any mistakes in the way they acted when processing Mr Ls account 
application. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman