DRN-3078163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that they were mis-sold a Select Silver Account (SSA) by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in May 2014.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say that they were advised to take out the SSA, but they didnt want it and 
havent used it.
RBS says that Mr and Mrs F chose to take out the SSA and did so online, without their 
advice.
RBS has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs F previously had a fee free account, and that 
the SSA once opened could be closed any month, but they kept it for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F knew they had a choice whether to take 
out the SSA, and they chose to do so.
I havent seen any evidence such as an assessment of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances by 
RBS that shows that any advice was give. And this service is aware that RBS SSA sales 
were generally non-advised at the time of sale.
RBS has also provided evidence that this sale was done online, and even if some discussion 
with staff took place at some point, this service generally considers online sales to be non-
advised.
So, I think its more likely than not that this sale was non-advised.
So, the only requirement on RBS in this sale was to provide enough information to Mr and 
Mrs F to make an informed decision about the SSA.
And I think it did. I say this because I can see that RBSs sales process took Mr and Mrs F 
through the main costs and benefits of the SSA before they agreed to buy it.
So, although I know that Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed, Im not able to say that RBS did 
anything wrong in this sale; and I cant uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman