DRN-2690465
The complaint
Mr S complains that NRAM Limited (NRAM) failed to remove a charge against his property 
when it was satisfied in 2005 and that it has also failed to treat him fairly or take account of 
his vulnerabilities.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a considerable number of submissions about his complaint, and Ive 
considered everything he has sent in. But I dont intend to respond in similar detail, and have 
focussed on what I consider to be the key elements of his complaint  namely NRAMs 
failure to remove the charge registered against his property, their failure to treat him fairly 
and offer a lower rate of interest, and the fact that his account has been sold on to a third 
party. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen 
it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it in order to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I wont be asking NRAM to 
take any further action. Ill explain why.
I understand it would have come as a shock to Mr S to discover that the charge 
registered against his property had not been removed when it was satisfied in 2005. 
NRAM has said it has since raised it as a matter of urgency with the relevant 
solicitors but it has explained that it may take some time due to the backlogs at the 
Land Registry. And while I appreciate this should have been completed much 
sooner, there isnt anything else NRAM can reasonably do to now speed up this 
process, which is now in the hands of Land Registry.  
NRAM has offered a total of £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its error. This is made up of £100 for its failure to remove 
the charge in 2005, and a further £150 for the delay in requesting its removal from 
the point Mr S raised it with them in May 2020. I appreciate that Mr S may not 
consider this to be commensurate to the experience he had had, however, so Ive 
thought about whether £250 represents fair compensation.
I acknowledge that this has been a very frustrating ordeal for Mr S. But in order to 
award further compensation, Id have to be satisfied that the acts or omissions of 
NRAM have caused more than moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not 
persuaded it has in these circumstances. I appreciate it would have been upsetting 
for Mr S to discover that the charge hadnt been removed, and because NRAM 
initially failed to action his request when he brought it to their attention in May 2020. 
But it has now sent the relevant instructions to the solicitors. And given the charge 
had already been satisfied, he ought reasonably to have known that it wouldnt have 
been enforceable, even though it remained registered against his property. So, 
overall, Im satisfied that £250 represents fair compensation in these circumstances. 
Mr S also submits that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of the charge not 
being removed in 2005. However, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to suggest 
that the failure to remove the charge sooner has made him financially worse off, or 
has had a material impact on his ability to obtain credit elsewhere, for example. And 
given that Mr S is unable to substantiate his losses with supporting evidence, I 
cannot fairly or reasonably ask NRAM to cover any such losses. 
Mr S is also unhappy that his debt was sold on to a third party that does not offer 
competitive interest rates. However, a lender is entitled to transfer their accounts to 
third parties to administer, and I understand the third party in Mr Ss case is 
administering the account in line with the original terms and conditions agreed with 
Northern Rock. I appreciate the difficult position Mr S is in, as he does not feel he is 
able to obtain a competitive interest rate and is stuck paying the standard variable 
rate (SVR). But as NRAM have made clear in their final response, there was never 
any guarantee that Northern Rock and/or its successors would offer competitive fixed 
interest rates, and neither is there any obligation on them to do so atter Northern 
Rock was nationalised by the government. The account is still being administered in 
line with the terms and conditions he agreed to, which was to revert to the SVR after 
the expiry of his fixed rate. 
Mr S further submits that NRAM has failed to treat him fairly. He says he is a 
vulnerable customer and that it didnt do enough to help him when he has been 
struggling to make his monthly payments. However, I can see that NRAM has 
worked with Mr S when he has got in contact with them, where it has undertaken 
income and expenditure reviews and implemented payment holidays to help assist 
with periods of financial difficulty. I can also see that NRAM discussed his health 
issues with him and took into consideration the impact this would have on his ability 
to deal with his finances. So, Im not persuaded that NRAM has treated Mr S unfairly 
in this regard, or that it can be said to have ignored his vulnerabilities or requests for 
help. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficult time he has had, as well as the poor health he has experienced. But I dont consider 
NRAM needs to take any further action in these circumstances, as I consider its offer of 
compensation to be fair.
My final decision
NRAM Limited has made an offer to pay a total of £250.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
NRAM should pay Mr S (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr S should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr S and NRAM as to whether the £250 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman