DRN-4263529
The complaint
Mr O complains FUND OURSELVES Limited (Fund Ourselves) gave him a loan without 
carrying out appropriate checks. 
What happened
Mr O was advanced one loan for £250 on 19 November 2022 and Mr O was due to make 4 
monthly repayments of £123.50. Mr O has had some problems repaying the loan and based 
on the most recent information an outstanding balance remains due.   
Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman after it had been reviewed by 
Fund Ourselves who didnt uphold it. But Fund Ourselves did offer to assist Mr O in repaying 
the balance through a repayment plan. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator, and he didnt think Mr Os complaint 
should be upheld as proportionate checks by Fund Ourselves had been carried out. He was 
also satisfied that there was no indication that Mr O was in financial difficulties, or that further 
checks needed to have been conducted. 
Mr O didnt agree, saying he was maxed out on his overdraft as well as his credit card. As 
no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr O could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Os income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors 
include:
Mr O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr O. But as there was only one loan, I 
dont think this applied in Mr Os complaint. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr O was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
I also want to be clear that this decision only deals with Fund Ourselves decision to provide 
the loan. I havent considered anything else outside of this, such as what happened when 
Mr O approached Fund Ourselves for assistance. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Os complaint.
As part of his application, Mr O declared a monthly income of £1,650 per month from full 
time work. Mr O was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different 
categories, such as travel, rent, utilities, food and commitments. Mr O declared his outgoings 
were £595. As this was the first loan, I think it was, at this time, reasonable of 
Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information Mr O had provided. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr O provided that he had enough 
disposable income to afford the largest monthly loan repayment of around £123. Therefore, 
it wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loan to be affordable for Mr O. 
Before the loan was advanced Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search there wasnt a regulatory requirement to 
do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Fund Ourselves couldnt do is carry 
out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
The results of the credit search showed that Mr O had 7 active accounts owing other 
creditors just over £3,500. Fund Ourselves was also told he hadnt opened any new 
accounts within the last 6 months. Which could reasonably suggest that at the time Mr O 
wasnt reliant or dependent on this sort of credit. 
Fund Ourselves also knew that there hadnt been any defaults or delinquent accounts within 
the last three years. There also werent any other types of insolvency such as County Court 
Judgements recorded in the results Fund Ourselves received.  
I appreciate Mr O says he had other loans with other lenders, but at the time the credit report 
only showed one outstanding loan which Mr O was due to pay £72 per month towards. The 
report didnt suggest that Mr O had lots of outstanding loans. 
There wasnt anything in the result that indicated Mr O had further loans outstanding and 
Fund Ourselves was entitled to make a decision based on the information which it had 
available at the time. I can see there were credit cards that were either at or very close to the prescribed credit 
limits. But these had been serviced and there wasnt any adverse payment information 
recorded against the cards. As this was the first loan and there wasnt anything in the credit 
check results to have indicated that Mr O was having financial difficulties or wouldnt be able 
to afford his repayments. 
In this case I think the checks that Fund Ourselves carried out for a first loan were 
proportionate. They showed Fund Ourselves that Mr O would likely be able to afford his 
repayments. It therefore follows that in this complaint, I am not upholding Mr Os complaint. 
I know Mr O will be disappointed with the decision that I have reached. However, an 
outstanding balance likely remains due and I would remind Fund Ourselves of its regulatory 
requirement to treat Mr O fairly and with forbearance with regards to repaying the 
outstanding debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Os compliant.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman