DRN-2787661
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has debited her account for 
a £200 cash machine (ATM) withdrawal when she only received £50. She says that, as a 
result, shes overdrawn and accruing interest. 
What happened
On 27 February 2021, Miss S tried to withdraw £200 from an ATM. But she says it 
only dispensed £50.
She reported this to NatWest on 1 March 2021, and it raised an ATM claim. She 
explained she needed the money for her sons nursery fees. NatWest temporarily 
credited her £150 whilst the claim was being looked into. It tried to contact her to 
confirm this and left a message as it couldnt get through. I can see she transferred 
the £150 to another account.
The claim was declined on 4 March 2021, based on the information received from the 
ATM provider. NatWest let Miss S know it was removing the temporary credit.
Unhappy with this, Miss S referred the matter to our service. She explained that her 
account was overdrawn following the credit reversal. She said she was incurring 
interest and it was affecting her credit score.
After investigating, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found the 
information from the ATM provider suggested the machine had been working 
correctly and had dispensed £200.
Miss S disagrees with the investigators view. She says she wants her money back 
plus compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The journal roll from the ATM provider shows that £200 was dispensed. Theres no 
record that the funds were reversed, nor that something else went wrong. 
The journal roll also shows two different individuals were able to make cash 
withdrawals within a couple of minutes before and after Miss S.
It appears that Miss S first tried to make a withdrawal that was declined due to 
insufficient funds. I cant see how much was requested. But the entry below shows a 
separate transaction against Miss Ss account for £200. Whereas the first transaction 
records that no cash was dispensed, the second transaction records that ten lots of 
£20 notes were dispensed. 
The ATM provider has also provided evidence that, when it was next checked, the 
machine balanced  meaning the money in the machine matched what was 
expected given the withdrawals that had taken place. 
I have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive weighed up what 
Miss S has told us against the technical evidence from the ATM provider  and I find 
the technical evidence to be more persuasive.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss S, who I know feels strongly about this 
complaint and finds herself in a difficult financial position. I think NatWest showed 
forbearance by temporarily crediting her account during the claim. Based on the 
records Ive seen, I think its reasonable that NatWest ultimately held her liable for the 
£200 debit. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman