DRN-3542678
The complaint
Mr W complains about pension advice he received from Robert Goodman Associates 
(RGA), an appointed representative of Sesame Limited, in 2006 when he switched his 
pension to a drawdown plan.
Sesame is responsible for RGAs actions and is the respondent to this complaint.
What happened
Mr W approached RGA for advice on his pension in 2006 after he had been diagnosed with 
cancer. He wanted to know his options for releasing cash from his pension without drawing 
immediate income. He was still working and didnt need any income until retirement.
RGA recommended Mr W to switch pension providers from his existing personal pension to 
a phased retirement plan with Scottish Widows (SW).
Mr Ws existing plan didnt offer a drawdown option. The adviser wasnt authorised to give 
drawdown advice but recommended the SW plan which allowed Mr W to convert the 
pension to a drawdown plan at any time in future without further advice.
Shortly after the pension had been transferred, Mr W decided to take a tax-free cash lump 
sum. RGA asked SW to set up the drawdown plan in October 2006 and Mr W took his tax-
free cash lump sum. Subsequently, Mr W made income withdrawals from his drawdown 
pension in March 2008, October 2008, March 2009 and November 2009. Each of these was 
for about £4,917. In 2010 a smaller withdrawal of £3,000 was made and in 2011 a sum of 
£2,012 was taken. Mr W stopped taking lump sums and moved to drawing a varying monthly 
income from October 2012.
In 2019, Mr W complained about the advice he was given. He was unhappy with the 
investments in the pension. He also thought RGA should have considered an enhanced 
annuity and he was unhappy with the charges on his pension.
An ombudsman at this service has issued a decision that the complaint about the 
investments has been brought too late, but that we could consider the annuity and fee 
issues.
An investigator then looked at the merits of Mr Ws complaint and thought an enhanced 
annuity didnt meet Mr Ws objectives at the time, so he didnt uphold this part of the 
complaint. He did however uphold the charges part of Mr Ws complaint. 
Sesame asked for an extension to respond to the investigators assessment, which was 
granted but they did not further respond, so the parties were informed the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. Again Sesame did not respond.
Like the investigators assessment, my decision only deals with whether Mr W should have 
been advised to take out an enhanced annuity and with the fees of the pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Enhanced annuity
Mr W queried why he wasnt informed about an enhanced annuity. An enhanced or impaired 
life annuity could give a higher annual income than a standard annuity if due to health 
concerns or lifestyle someone is deemed to have a shorter life expectancy.
I agree that due to Mr Ws cancer diagnosis he likely would have qualified for an enhanced 
annuity. Mr Ws representative says that if he had seen a higher quote he might have 
preferred to take an annuity income rather than move to an income drawdown arrangement. 
He could have chosen to work part-time. 
However, looking at the suitability report at the time I can see that annuities in general were 
discussed and the option was excluded because a) Mr W didnt require any income at this 
point as he was continuing to work and b) given his worries about his health an annuity 
might not have turned out to be good value for his wife if he did pass away suddenly. It was 
recorded Mr W preferred to keep the pension fund as intact as possible for his wife to use if 
he didnt survive.
Mr Ws concerns were justified and as he only had been recently diagnosed there was a risk 
he could pass away much earlier than expected. So I dont think an annuity would have met 
Mr Ws objectives at the time he sought advice. 
Even if RGA had provided him with a quote, on the balance of probabilities Im not 
persuaded he would have decided to accept this option the time.
So Im not upholding this part of Mr Ws complaint.
charges
Mr W says he was charged commission payments since 2006 without his knowledge. 
In August 2006, RGA said in their recommendation report that they would receive an initial 
commission from SW for arranging the transfer. They said they would be waiving any future 
ongoing commission so that the value of the plan could be preserved as much as possible. It 
said RGA had not arranged ongoing advice and it was agreed Mr W would call the adviser if 
he needed help and any further advice would not be charged. 
SW provided Mr W with an overview of adviser commission being paid from his plan since 
he moved his plan to a drawdown plan in October 2006. The evidence shows that RGA 
received another £3,000 initial commission when the drawdown plan was set up and 
ongoing commission every month after that. From 2016 the ongoing commission was paid to 
RGA/Fairstone Financial Limited. RGA was acquired by Fairstone.
In response to the complaint the adviser said he had only received an initial commission of 
£2,206 for the initial transfer to SW and that he had received no further commission since.
However, based on the evidence provided Im satisfied that Mr W did pay another initial 
commission of £3,000 in October 2006 when RGA arranged the drawdown plan for Mr W 
and monthly commission was deducted until 2019 when Mr W found about these charges 
and cancelled them. And Ive seen no evidence that he agreed to this at any point.Ive also seen letters from SW to RGA in 2007, 2010, 2014 and 2015 copying them in on 
correspondence to their mutual client Mr W which suggests they were registered as the 
ongoing adviser on Mr Ws plan.
Based on the evidence provided Mr W had another initial commission and ongoing 
commission deducted over the years without his knowledge and contrary to what he was told 
would happen in 2006 when RGA gave him the advice to transfer.
I acknowledge that its possible that RGA wasnt intending to receive further commissions, 
however they should have flagged this to SW when they received correspondence and 
payments over the years.
So I dont think its fair that Mr W paid these charges which reduced his pension fund over 
the years and I consider RGA could have prevented these losses. I appreciate Fairstone has 
received some of the ongoing commissions in later years. However, if RGA had acted 
correctly, these ongoing commissions wouldnt have been taken at all in my view. So I 
consider it fair Sesame compensates Mr W for all his losses. 
The investigator said Mr W should have been advised to go directly into drawdown rather 
than switch to SW and then do another internal switch to SWs drawdown plan shortly after. 
However, the suitability report said Mr W may want to take tax free cash in future and the 
SW plan gave him to option to move into drawdown whenever he needed it. Mr W then 
obviously decided to take a lump sum very shortly after. However, at the time of the advice I 
dont think it had been clear when this would happen.
I think the issue here is mainly about the additional charges this additional switch created. 
The investments were the same. If no additional commission had been charged (as RGA 
told Mr W) I dont think the fact that he switched from a phased retirement plan to a 
drawdown plan rather than go straight into a drawdown plan had any real impact on his 
pension.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr W back into the position he would have been if no additional 
commissions had been charged from the point he moved into drawdown.
Sesame should:
Request a notional value from SW to show what Mr Ws pension would be worth 
now if the second initial commission of £3,000 in October 2006 and the ongoing 
commissions from 2006 until 2019 had not been deducted.
This should be compared to Mr Ws current pension value.
The difference between these values is Mr Ws financial loss. 
Pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Sesame is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age, assumed to be 20%.
Pay Mr W £300 for the worry and upset he experienced since finding out his 
pension had decreased in value by charges he didnt know about.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sesame deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Sesame should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Sesame should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format. 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Sesame Limited to pay Mr W the compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman