DRN-4193026
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K, who are represented by their solicitors who Ill call O, complain that Santander 
UK Plc didnt notify them about changes to the interest rate on their mortgage, which means 
the changes are invalid  and theyve been overcharged interest as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out their mortgage in 2003. Its an interest only mortgage, with the term 
expiring in 2024. They were on a discount rate for the first three years, reverting to the 
standard variable rate (SVR) from 2006. They borrowed around £220,000.
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage terms and conditions included a cap margin term  that is, a term 
limiting the SVR (a cap) to no more than 2.5% above Bank of England base rate (a margin). 
The terms and conditions allowed Santander to vary the cap margin from time to time, and it 
did so in 2008 and again in 2012. In 2008, although it increased the cap margin, Santander 
reduced the SVR  the margin increased because the SVR did not reduce to the same 
extent base rate reduced, though the SVR did reduce overall. In 2012, Santander increased 
both the SVR and the cap margin.
The terms and conditions also required Santander to give notice of any changes to the cap 
margin. On Mr and Mrs Ks behalf, O has argued that Santander failed to give them notice of 
increases to the cap margin, that as a result the increases are not valid  and so Santander 
was not entitled to charge them an SVR which was more than 2.5% above base rate from 
time to time. To resolve this complaint, they want interest theyve paid above that returned to 
them.
Santander said that the complaint was out of time, because it had increased the margin 
more than six years ago and Mr and Mrs K would have been aware of what they were 
paying at the time. It also said that in any case Mr and Mrs K would not have been able to 
move their mortgage elsewhere when the margin increased, because of the history of 
arrears on the mortgage. 
Our investigator said that we could only consider the fairness of interest charged during the 
six years leading up to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  though in considering that, he would 
need to take into account all the circumstances of the case, including things that happened 
more than six years ago if they were relevant to the fairness of interest charged within the 
last six years. He said that there was no evidence that Santander had notified Mr and Mrs K 
of the increases to the cap margin, as it was required to do under the terms and conditions. 
However, he said that if it had notified them, it wouldnt have made any difference, since 
Mr and Mrs K werent in a position to move their mortgage elsewhere if they werent happy 
with the changes. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They said that because Santander didnt notify them of the cap 
margin increase, they were denied the chance to review their arrangements and redeem the 
mortgage without an ERC. They said there was plenty of equity in the property so they would 
have been able to re-finance. They said Santander had acted in breach of contract and 
breach of the mortgage rules, taken advantage of them, and should refund any interest 
charged over the original 2.5% margin. 
Santander said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered first of all what parts of this complaint fall within my jurisdiction. The relevant 
time limit rules say that  unless the firm complained about consents (which Santander 
doesnt)  we cant consider a complaint about events that happened later than:
Six years before the date of the complaint; or
Three years before Mr and Mrs K knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of 
cause for complaint (if this limit gives more time than the six year limit).
Theres no evidence of an earlier complaint, and no evidence of exceptional circumstances 
which prevented Mr and Mrs K making a complaint earlier than they did. Im satisfied they 
would have known of the interest rate they were being charged  including that it fell by less 
than base rate in 2008, and that it increased in 2012  at the time. So the three year rule 
does not give them more time and we can only consider the fairness of interest charged in 
the six years leading up to this complaint  that is, from September 2014.
However, in considering the fairness of interest charged over the last six years, its 
necessary to consider all the circumstances of the complaint. This includes matters which 
happened more than six years before (and which would therefore be out of time as 
complaints in their own right), but which may have had an impact on the fairness of interest 
charged during the relevant period. For example, if Santander had no contractual basis for 
increasing the cap margin when it did in 2008 or 2012, it might not be fair to charge an SVR 
set at more than 2.5% above base rate in the last six years.
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charged in the last six years, therefore, Ill 
start by looking at the mortgage terms and conditions.
I note that O has made clear this complaint is solely about the failure to notify Mr and Mrs K 
of the increase to the cap margin  saying that as a result Santander is not entitled to charge 
them more than 2.5% above base rate. And so it is on that issue I will focus.
The terms and conditions say
2.4 base rate means the Bank of Englands repo rate from time to time
2.5 cap means the rate of interest found by adding the margin to the reference rate
2.16 margin means 2.50% or any other percentage which we substitute as the 
margin under condition 9.6
2.30 standard variable rate or SVR means the rate of interest which we publish as 
our standard variable rate. We use our standard variable rate as the basis for setting 
the interest rate on all loans which we make on terms where we are free to vary the 
whole of the interest rate charged. We can change the standard variable rate under 
condition 9.1 or 9.3.
9.5 This paragraph applies where the standard variable rate comes to exceed the 
cap as a result of:
(a) a reduction in the base rate;
(b) a reduction in the base rate combined with a change in the standard 
variable rate of which we have previously given notice; or
(c) a reduction in the margin.
Where this paragraph applies, we will change the standard variable rate within 60 
days from the date (the start date) on which it comes to exceed the cap. We will 
ensure that the changed standard variable rate does not exceed the cap in force on 
the start date. 
9.6 We may increase or reduce the margin at any time. The following terms will apply 
to any increase or reduction which we make under this paragraph:
(a) we will give you not less than 30 days notice of an increase in the margin 
and not less than seven days notice of a reduction;
(b) if we are increasing the margin, then:
If the increase applies to the whole of the capital, you will be entitled to 
repay all the money you owe us within three months from the date on 
which the increase takes effect, without paying any early repayment 
charge that would otherwise apply;
If the increase applies only to part of the capital (the affected part), 
you will be entitled to repay the money you owe us, or (if you choose) 
the affected part, within three months from the date on which the 
increase takes effect, without paying any early repayment charge that 
would otherwise apply to the affected part.
Condition 9.6 says Santander may increase or reduce the margin at any time. Although 
there is a requirement to give notice, the change to the margin is not conditional on the 
giving of notice. Rather, once it has made the decision to change the margin, Santander is 
then required to notify its customers. This is a separate obligation to the discretion to change 
the margin, and consequent on it  not the other way round. Im therefore satisfied that in 
failing to give notice Santander may have been in breach of the contractual requirement to 
give notice  but that failure did not invalidate the change to the margin.
The purpose of the requirement to give notice is to enable customers to redeem their 
mortgage without paying an early repayment charge  ERC  if they are unhappy with the 
change to the margin. If a customer is otherwise subject to an ERC, giving of notice under 
this condition means Santander would waive the ERC for three months after the increase 
takes effect.
Mr and Mrs K had been on the SVR since 2006. Therefore, there was no ERC applicable to 
their mortgage in either 2008 or 2012, and so no contractual barrier to them re-mortgaging or 
switching off the SVR onto another rate with Santander. And even if they didnt know of the 
change to the cap margin, they would have known about the changes to the SVR which 
happened at the same time  and were not subject to an ERC if they were unhappy with those changes.
However, I dont think it would have been possible for Mr and Mrs K to re-mortgage. I can 
see from the history of this mortgage that they missed some payments in 2006, took out a 
second charge loan in 2007 and were subject to possession proceedings in 2008 by the 
second charge lender. They missed further payments to Santander in 2010, and were 
consistently in arrears between 2012 and 2015, and again from late 2016 to early 2018.
Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage market that its very difficult to move 
mortgage lender with a recent history of arrears  particularly after the end of the sub-prime 
mortgage market following the financial crisis of 2007 to 2009. Mr and Mrs K have pointed to 
the equity they had in the property. I dont know what their equity position was in 2008 or 
2012 (bearing in mind they also appear to have had a second charge loan). But Im aware 
that lenders were unlikely to lend to a borrower in arrears or with a significant recent history 
of arrears  regardless of equity in the property. 
Mr and Mrs K might alternatively have been able to take a new preferential interest rate with 
Santander, moving them off the SVR and therefore avoiding the impact of changes to the 
cap margin. Mr and Mrs K are experienced mortgage borrowers  I dont agree that having 
multiple buy to let mortgages is irrelevant to whether theyd understand how a residential 
mortgage works  and in any case Santander would have notified them when their previous 
rate ended in 2006. But theres no evidence they asked Santander about taking a new 
interest rate  and, in any case, for much of the time they were unlikely to have been eligible 
for a new rate because of the arrears. 
If Santander had notified Mr and Mrs K of the changes to the cap margin, then, I think its 
unlikely to have made a difference. As Ive said, the purpose of notifying of a change is to 
enable the borrower to move their mortgage elsewhere without ERC to avoid the impact of 
the change. But Mr and Mrs K were already not subject to an ERC at the time of the 
changes in 2008 and 2012, and given their circumstances were unlikely to have been able to 
move their mortgage elsewhere. They could also have mitigated the impact of changes to 
the cap margin by asking Santander for a new interest rate in place of the SVR  at least at 
times when they werent in arrears. But theres no evidence they did so.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs K would have known about changes to the interest 
rate they were paying, even if they hadnt been notified of changes to the cap margin. They 
werent subject to an ERC, so didnt need to be told that Santander would waive an ERC that 
would otherwise apply. And Im satisfied that even if a notification from Santander would 
have prompted them to explore moving their mortgage elsewhere, its unlikely they would 
have been able to do so. 
Taking all that into account, I dont think Santander charged an unfair rate of interest during 
the period I can consider. Any failure to give notice doesnt mean the change to the margin is 
invalid, so Santander was not obliged to charge no more than 2.5% above base rate in the 
six years before this complaint. And the failure to give notice of the change to the cap margin 
was not the cause of Mr and Mrs K not moving their mortgage elsewhere, so  bearing in 
mind the changes were respectively two years and six years before the period I can consider 
 I dont think that resulted in Mr and Mrs K being charged an unfair rate of interest after 
September 2014.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman