DRN-3874858
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt refunded her, in full, the money 
she lost after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation purchase 
scam.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. In summary, Mrs A fell victim to an impersonation purchase scam. 
In late 2021, Mrs A was looking to purchase flights. Mrs A used a comparison website and 
chose flights for her and her husband through a well-known travel agent. Mrs A says she 
made payment through their website and was promised an acknowledgement email would 
arrive within 24 hours. No acknowledgment was received so Mrs A looked for a contact 
number for the company online. Mrs A found what she thought was a legitimate number. 
Unbeknown to Mrs A at the time the number she had found was in fact being used by 
fraudsters. The fraudsters spoke with Mrs A and also communicated with her through 
WhatsApp.
Mrs A says she was told that their reservation had been cancelled as there was a problem 
with the credit card her husband used to make the payment. Mrs A says she was advised 
they needed to book again. Mrs A was told by the supposed operator that they would give 
her the best dates for travel and routes to get the best price. Mrs A says she received a good 
price, with the travel dates the same as what she had tried to book previously. 
Mrs A tried to make payment via her debit card but was advised the card wasnt working. 
Mrs A then paid £802 via bank transfer to the details provided to her. Mrs A says she 
queried the name of the beneficiary as it wasnt a company name and was told it was the 
company director. The amount was for two return economy flights to the middle east.
Mrs A received confirmation of the flight reservations through WhatsApp. Mrs A then asked 
to reserve seats and was told by the fraudster that she would be contacted by the ticketing 
department. Mrs A says a manager contacted her and said there was a problem with the 
reservation and that the reservation was business class and there was no reservation for 
economy class. Mrs A then paid a further £482  which was the difference between the 
economy reservation and business class. Mrs A says she wasnt sent a document with the 
corrected details and after she was asked for more money, she terminated the call.
The next day Mrs A contacted a genuine travel firm and it confirmed that Mrs A had been the 
victim of a scam. 
Mrs A contacted Santander to report the matter. Santander contacted the receiving bank 
(where the funds had been sent to), to see if it could recover any of Mrs As funds, but 
unfortunately no funds remained and so there was nothing to return to Mrs A.
Santander also considered whether Mrs A was due a refund of her losses. Santander 
considered the case under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) which it is a signatory off. 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Ultimately, Santander reimbursed Mrs A 50% of her total losses (£642) as it considered it 
could have done more to protect Mrs A. But Santander also says one of the exceptions in 
the CRM Code applies, in that it believes Mrs A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate.
Unhappy that she hadnt been reimbursed in full, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service 
and one of our Investigators considered it. In short, they considered Santanders offer to re-
imburse Mrs A 50% was fair in the circumstances. They agreed that Mrs A had acted without 
a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. They considered the price for the 
flights (including the upgrade to business class) was too good to be true, and alongside 
some other factors such as being unable to pay via card and transferring money to a 
personal account and not a business account should have given Mrs A cause for concern 
that all wasnt as it seemed.
Mrs A didnt agree with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A but Im not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the
victim of a cruel scam, but I dont believe Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
answering of the complaint and I think its offer to refund Mrs A 50% of her loss is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mrs A authorised the payments that are the subject of this
complaint, even though she did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations, 
she would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code.
The CRM Code requires Firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for Santander to 
establish one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement, as set out in the CRM Code, 
applies.Under the CRM Code, a Sending Firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can 
establish that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, Santander accepted 50% liability of Mrs As claim. However I think Santander 
has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mrs A under the terms of 
the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the 
provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont find Mrs A had a reasonable basis for believing the person or 
business with whom she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
In order to determine whether this exception to reimbursement applies, I must ask if Mrs A 
made the payments she did whilst having a reasonable basis for belief that all was genuine. 
Im afraid I dont find thats the case having considered the price of the tickets and the 
interaction Mrs A had with the fraudsters. I think there was enough going on that should 
have given Mrs A cause for concern.
Mrs A had used a comparison website to find tickets, and when Mrs A spoke to the 
supposed operator as she hadnt received an email confirmation, they ended up re-booking 
her tickets. Having carefully considered the price Mrs A was initially paying for two return 
flights they were considerably cheaper than the average going rate. 
I also find that Mrs A should have had concerns when she received a reservation for 
economy  to then be told it was actually a business class reservation and that she needed 
to make a further payment to correct it / upgrade. When I take into account the total amount 
Mrs A was paying for two return business class tickets, the price is far cheaper than the 
average price for the same tickets. I find the price was far too good to be true and should 
have put Mrs A on alert that things may not have been as they seemed.
Mrs A was also told by the fraudster that her husbands credit card wasnt working which is 
why her initial booking hadnt received an email confirmation. And then when Mrs A tried to 
pay by debit card, she was also told that her card wasnt working. Given Mrs A thought she 
was dealing with the genuine travel operator  I think she should have had concerns about 
what she was being told. Mrs A was then given details of a personal account in which to 
send the payment to and that it was in the name of the director. Again I think a genuine 
business would have a business account and wouldnt ask its customers to pay into the 
personal account of the director. 
Overall I think there was enough going on, with the price of the flights and the interaction 
Mrs A had that should have given Mrs A more than a cause for concern. To my mind it is 
reasonable to suggest that this should have led to a greater degree of care and checking on 
Mrs As part before she made the payments. With all of this in mind, while I am sorry that Mrs A fell victim to a scam, I dont find that 
Mrs A had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. And so I consider it 
was fair for Santander to reimburse Mrs A 50% of her claim under the CRM Code  with 
Mrs A sharing some responsibility for the loss also.
I have also considered whether Santander did all it could to try and recover the money Mrs A 
lost. Santander was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask the receiving 
bank to return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to make 
enquiries quickly for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades me 
Santander did act quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the 
money on as quickly as possible. Despite Mrs A reporting the matter promptly, ultimately 
Santander was advised by the receiving bank that no funds remained, so there was nothing 
more Santander could do.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc shouldnt be held 
further liable for Mrs As losses, and I dont direct it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman