DRN-2713313
The complaint
Mr M complains of irresponsible lending by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He would like 
his outstanding balance written off, a refund of all interest payments and charges from 
October 2014 and compensation with 8% statutory interest added.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Before offering credit increases a business needs to ensure it does so in a 
responsible manner. There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do. But 
they are expected to carry out appropriate and proportionate borrower focused 
checks around the affordability of any increases.
I appreciate for Mr M its frustrating that Barclays, for commercial reasons, hasnt 
given us permission to share  its reasons for applying the credit increases for. But, 
based on the information Ive seen I didnt feel the increases were inappropriate.
Mr M has asked us if two debts he had with another bank were considered. Barclays 
sought credit information which typically covers current and historic lending, debts 
and account history. So, if that information was available to the credit reference 
agency it used, I would have expected it to have shown up
Looking at Mr Ms account statements he made at least the minimum payment 
required until April 2016(after the last increases was applied), on several occasions, 
making significant lump sum payments. I dont think at the time of the increases the  
account history would have been a reason for Barclays not to offer credit increases.
However, from Mr Ms statements it seems he didnt fully use the credit increase 
applied in August 2015 from £9,500 to £11,000 as his balance remained below 
£10,000. And didnt use at all the increase in 2016 to £12,500 as his balance still 
remained below £10,000. So, I cant see that the credit increases unduly affected him 
at the time they were given. 
We do expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically when consumers 
are in financial difficulty but that doesnt automatically mean writing off balances and 
refunding all interest and charges. I cant see any reference to Mr M raising financial 
problems with Barleys until April 2016. At this time Barclays offered an income and 
expenditure assessment, it gave details of external agencies that could offer support 
and put his account on hold 30 days suspending interest and charges during this 
time. It also refunded charges and interest incurred from June to November 2016 
totalling just over £1,000
I dont feel that Barclays were irresponsible in offering and applying the credit 
increases that it did particularly as Mr M didnt take any significant advantage of 
them. So, I dont think I can reasonably ask Barclays to write off Mr Ms outstanding 
balance and refund all his interest and charges with interest as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman