DRN-2482528
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car she acquired, via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs B acquired a used car via a five-year conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car was seven years old and had a mileage of 119,000. Mrs B ordered the 
car via a website and so, although she had seen photos of the car, she didnt actually see it 
until it was delivered. 
Mrs B says that, when the car arrived, she noticed it had damage to its rear bumper that she 
hadnt been aware of before, and that the car juddered when the brakes were applied. She 
says she tried to make contact with the dealership, but it didnt respond, and so she took the 
car to a local garage and says it confirmed there were issues with the brakes.
Mrs B then reviewed the MOT history of the car. It had passed an MOT, with advisories in 
respect of the windscreen and a tyre, in February 2020. However, she saw that a previous 
MOT, undertaken in February 2019, had been a fail due to a malfunction with the engine 
management light, and that on that occasion there had been advisories in respect of 
damage to the windscreen, front and rear brake pads, a defective tyre and play being found 
in the steering rack. Mrs B said she was concerned that the 2020 MOT was fraudulent.
In June 2020, she complained to Moneybarn about the quality of the car. It said that, in 
general terms, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires a vehicle to be free from defects, but 
not including issues of wear and tear such as brakes and tyres, taking into account the 
vehicles age and mileage. If faults were raised within the first six months of acquiring the car 
it would usually expect the dealership to investigate and, if appropriate, repair any faults 
unless they were cosmetic or had arisen from normal wear and tear.
Moneybarn said it had seen the MOTs for the car, and that any advisories meant these were 
issues that would require repair in the near future but were not a cause of failure at that time. 
All the issues that had been raised were due to wear and tear, including the brakes, which 
deteriorate over time with use. It also said that a vehicles MOT is freely available on the 
internet, and that Mrs B could have checked this if that information had been important to her 
before taking the car. 
Moneybarn said there was no evidence that the 2020 MOT had been fake and, if she had 
concerns as to its veracity, she should report this to the appropriate authority.
Moneybarn said the damage to the bumper was a purely cosmetic issue that did not impact 
on the satisfactory quality of the car. It concluded that the issues raised by Mrs B were all 
wear and tear, and so were things that should be factored into the general maintenance 
costs of owning a used car. It didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B was unhappy at the response from Moneybarn and complained to this service. 
Moneybarn agreed to have the car inspected by an independent engineer, who then 
prepared a report as to its condition.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He said he 
thought Moneybarn had dealt with her complaint fairly.
Looking first at the bumper, the investigator said that, although the advert had been provided 
by the dealership, this hadnt included any photos. Hed asked Mrs B for evidence of the 
contact she had attempted to make with the dealership, and she provided screenshots of 
texts sent in June 2020. The investigator noted there was no evidence that the car had been 
delivered in that condition and, given that contact appeared to have been some weeks later, 
he said it was possible the bumper could have been damaged while in Mrs Bs possession. 
He also didnt think the dent would impact on the satisfactory quality of the car.
Our investigator said Mrs B hadnt supplied any information as to the findings from the local 
garage Mrs B had taken the car to, so hed relied on the evidence that had been provided. 
Looking at the independent report Mrs B had used the car for an additional 10,800 miles by 
this point. The engineer had confirmed the car juddered when braking and said this was 
likely due to warped or unbalanced brake discs. But had concluded that due to the amount of 
time that had passed since inception, and the distance travelled by Mrs B, this fault wouldnt 
have been present at the point of sale. Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence 
the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when supplied.
When considering the MOTs our investigator said there wasnt evidence the MOT in 2020 
had been fraudulent.
Mrs B was unhappy at our investigators view and arranged for the car to have a full health 
check at a manufacturers approved garage. This check revealed that the car had play in the 
near side rear drive shaft, and advised the car was unsafe to drive. Mrs B says she was 
advised the repairs would be around £2,000.
Our investigator reviewed the health check report but said this didnt change his view. He 
said Mrs B had been able to use the car for 10,000 miles since shed acquired it and, as it 
was seven years old with a mileage over 119,000, it would be reasonable to expect issues of 
wear and tear to arise over time. He didnt think there were faults with the car at the point of 
sale.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator, saying that she didnt accept she had driven the car 
for an additional 10,000 miles as shed not used the car much due to lockdown. Mrs B said 
that the independent engineer had spent very little time looking at the car and hadnt taken it 
for a test drive. If the brakes had been replaced, as they should have been due to the MOT 
advisory, then they shouldnt be in their current state.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and 
reasonable.As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mrs B is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price 
and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of 
the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around seven years old and with a mileage of 119,000. 
I think that, taking into account these things, its fair to say that a reasonable person 
(being the test under the Consumer Rights Act) would expect that over time there 
would be issues with maintenance and repair, since components of the car would have 
been subject to fairly significant wear and tear due to use. A car of this age and mileage 
wouldnt be expected to be fault free as a new one should be.
Dealing firstly with the issue of the rear bumper. I have read the advertisement, but I 
havent seen any photos that went with it. The independent engineer says this was a 
slight cosmetic crack and, as I havent seen a photo of the damage, I think its 
reasonable to think this was a minor fault. Taking into account the age and mileage of 
the car I think it would be reasonable to expect some signs of wear and tear on the 
bodywork. However, I also have no independent evidence as to the car being delivered 
with this crack to the bumper, and its possible it occurred after Mrs B took possession. 
Weighing up the available evidence I cant reasonably say the crack in the bumper was 
present before the Mrs B took possession.
Mrs B strongly disputes the mileage she is said to have undertaken in the car since she 
took possession. Ive seen that the advert, conditional sale agreement and the invoice 
all set out the cars mileage as 119,000. When the car was independently inspected in 
November 2020, the mileage was recorded as close to 130,000 meaning, from March 
to November 2020, Mrs B had driven around 10,000 miles.
Looking at the MOT undertaken in February 2020, the mileage was recorded as 
119,000 and, as this was four weeks before the car was acquired by Mrs B, it would 
corroborate the mileage reported in the other paperwork. The health check arranged by 
Mrs B for the car in December 2020, shows a mileage a little over 130,000 and 
corroborates the independent inspection.
So, although I appreciate Mrs B feels it wasnt possible for her to achieve this additional 
mileage in the car given the current lockdown situation, Im afraid I cant agree. The 
evidence supports that Mrs B has been able to make use of the car. I dont have any 
evidence that points to the mileage at the point of sale being considerably more than 
the figure that was recorded. I also think that if there had been an error it would be 
reasonable to have expected Mrs B to have noticed that and raised it with the 
dealership. 
Mrs B also says that the independents engineers report is unreliable as they didnt take the car out for a test drive. But, although the report doesnt set out the length of 
time the engineer was with the car, it does say that the engineer inspected the car, 
checked its fluid levels and visually assessed the brakes friction components. The car 
was then started from cold and taken for a short test drive, during which the judder 
was noted when the brakes were applied. Im satisfied, that as the engineer wouldnt 
have been able to confirm the car juddering when the brakes were applied unless they 
had driven the car, that they had taken the car for a test drive and spent a sufficient 
length of time investigating the issues. So, I think its fair and reasonable for me to take 
account of the contents of this report.
I appreciate Mrs B is concerned about the state of the cars brakes and the drive shaft 
which shes been told will be expensive to replace but the issue for me to decide is 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Looking at the MOT in 2019, I can see that there were advisories for the front and rear 
brake pads and for some play in the steering rack. These were not fail items and the 
car subsequently passed its MOT. Advisories means that they will require 
maintenance and repair over time. When the MOT was undertaken in February 2020, 
there were no advisories for the brakes or steering. I dont have any evidence that the 
2020 MOT was fraudulent, and so I am accepting its contents. I think its more likely 
than not that some repair work was undertaken to the car before its last MOT. But that 
doesnt necessarily mean new parts were added, and the car wasnt advertised as 
having new brakes.
When the independent engineer inspected the car, they found the car juddered when 
the brakes were applied. They said this was likely due to potentially warped or 
unbalanced brake discs. The health check, subsequently carried out, confirmed that the 
brake discs had become corroded and lipped. However, the independent engineer said, 
in their opinion, this wouldnt have been present at the point of sale due to the amount 
of time passed and distance driven. The health check report doesnt give an opinion on 
whether this would have been present or not when Mrs B acquired the car.
Brakes and their components are serviceable parts, which means they require 
maintenance replacement over time due to wear. I think its reasonable to expect a car 
that was 7 years old, with a mileage of 119,000, to require maintenance and repair after 
a reasonable period of time, as its serviceable parts will deteriorate. Here, Mrs B had 
the car for over six months before it was inspected and, in that time, had been able to 
drive 10,000 miles in it, so I think she has had reasonable usage and, because of this 
maintenance and repair costs are to be expected.
Looking at the evidence that has been provided I cant reasonably say that the issues 
with the brake discs were present at the point of sale and, were more likely than not, to 
have arisen over time through use. And, looking at the length of time and the mileage 
driven, I think a reasonable person would think the car had been appropriately durable 
before this repair was required.
The health check has identified a fault with the drive shaft and advises Mrs B not to use 
the car. However, this report doesnt say whether this would have been present or 
developing at the point of sale. While I accept the 2019 MOT raises an advisory related 
to the steering rack, this was not present in the 2020 MOT. I also have to take into 
account the length of time Mrs B has had the car, and the number of miles driven in 
that time. I dont think I can reasonably say that this issue had been present at the point 
of sale of the car to Mrs B. I think its more likely than not, if there had been a fault, it 
would have been diagnosed much earlier.So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs B, for the reasons given 
above, Im not upholding her complaint. I dont think have enough evidence to find the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman