DRN-4181625
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that he thinks Nationwide Building Society passed incorrect information 
across when he carried out a bank account switch.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr R arranged to do an account switch on his Nationwide current 
account, transferring to another bank  who I shall refer to as F. However, Mr R complained 
that some of his direct debits and standing orders werent transferred correctly, so he says 
the initial payments went to a wrong bank account. And he said this left him without enough 
money to pay his bills.
Mr R says he contacted F on two separate occasions and the issues were resolved. But he 
says this matter caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience. He complained to 
Nationwide that it had sent incorrect information to F. Nationwide didnt agree, so Mr R 
referred his complaint to this Service.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that Im not considering the actions of F in this complaint. In this 
decision Im considering whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably regarding its 
responsibilities in carrying out the account switch. I think it did and Ill now explain why.
The Current Account Switch Service Mr R has used to change bank accounts was initially 
designed to enable consumers to switch their current accounts from one bank or building 
society to another in a simple, reliable and stress-free way. Under the scheme, Nationwide 
was required to send F details of all of Mr Rs regular payments  including direct debits and 
standing orders  to enable F to ensure these payments come out of the new account.
Its clear in this case that things didnt go as smoothly as they should have done as some 
standing orders/direct debits were set up incorrectly on the new bank account. As a result 
some of the payments were returned as failed. Mr R has had to make some telephone calls 
to put things right. He holds Nationwide responsible for this. However, crucially, the scheme 
also sets out that its the new bank/building societys responsibility to put things right when 
something goes wrong  which in this case was F. But Ive thought about whether 
Nationwide has any responsibility for what went wrong which meant Mr R had to contact F to 
put things.
The account switch process is an automated process  i.e. its a system led process where 
details are automatically sent across to the new back. Ive reviewed the way Nationwide 
processed Mr Rs details and Im satisfied that it sent the details to F in the way it would in 
any other account switch. And Im also satisfied that it sent the correct information to F.
I recognise both F and Nationwide have said the other is responsible for what happened. 
But, ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Nationwide handled the account switch 
in an unreasonable way. I recognise that things didnt go as smoothly as Mr R would have 
liked. But I dont find, on the evidence available to me, I can fairly and reasonably conclude 
Nationwide is responsible for this. 
Mr R responded to say he didnt say Nationwide was at fault for what had happened, but he 
wanted to find out who was at fault. He said the account switch didnt happen in a simple, 
reliable and stress-free way in his case. He said hes sent over 20 emails and spent hours 
on the telephone to both Nationwide, F and this Service to look to resolve this matter. And 
he said its caused him untold distress and inconvenience. Mr R queried, if Nationwide isnt 
at fault for what had happened, then who is?
Nationwide responded to say it didnt have anything to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think either party has provided me anything further to think about that they havent 
raised before. So I dont see any reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached 
in my provisional decision. I note Mr R has said he wants me to tell him who is at fault for 
whats happened. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I can only consider Nationwides 
actions in this decision and Im unable to comment on the actions of another party who is not 
part of this complaint. And, for the reasons Ive set out previously, I havent seen anything to 
show Nationwide has acted unfairly in this case.
I recognise Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of whats happened 
and I naturally sympathise with the situation hes found himself in. But I can only require 
Nationwide to compensate Mr R if I think its treated him unfairly. And, as I said, I dont think 
thats the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman