DRN-2021950
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the quality of a car Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) supplied to him through a hire purchase agreement. He wants to reject the car.
  
What happened
Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in January 2018. The car he got 
under this agreement was brand new, with a cash price of just over £52,000. Mr W paid a 
deposit of £4,110.11. The agreement was for 48 months with monthly repayments of 
£729.13. There was a final balloon payment of £20,100. The car was delivered early the 
following month.
 
Mr W also took out the following policies through the supplying dealership: Small Motor 
Accident Repair Technology (SMART Protect); Tyre & Alloy insurance; Protech plus leather 
cover; and Combined & RTI Guaranteed Asset Protection. The total price of these policies 
was £1,678. They were all for a period of 36 months. Mr W told us he paid for these, interest 
free, over the 12 months from when he got the car.
 
In June 2018 Mr W took the car back to the dealership for a windscreen check. He says that 
while he was there he told the dealership he was concerned about excessive tyre wear. 
Mr W said the tyres were skipping. On 1 August 2018 he took the car back to the 
dealership. He said he again raised concerns over the problems with the tyres. Mr W also 
said he told the dealership about a knocking noise coming from the gearbox. A few days 
later the car went back to the dealership as there were issues with the radiator 
crossmember, wing-mirror glass, audio unit, door trim and speaker. 
The dealership replaced the front tyres in September 2018. The next month, Mr W told the 
dealership the gear changes werent smooth. In November 2018, he told the dealership the 
new front tyres were feathering along the outer edges  and he repeated this two weeks 
later. 
Over the following 12 months Mr W continued to discuss these issues, and others, with both 
the dealership and the manufacturer. The dealership replaced the front tyres again. Mr W 
was also given a refund equal to just over one months payment on his agreement. But he 
told us that the tyre and gearbox issues didnt get sorted out. 
So, in February 2020, Mr W left the car with the dealership saying he was rejecting it. He 
also complained to MBFS. It rejected the complaint. Briefly, MBFS said the tyre skipping 
sensation is a normal characteristic of Mr Ws car and it was performing as expected. MBFS 
also said there was no evidence to suggest there was a fault with the gearbox. 
Mr W didnt accept this. He brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators. He thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he didnt 
think the skipping issue was an acceptable feature of Mr Ws car and, on balance, the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. The investigator set out what MBFS should do to put things 
right, including allowing Mr W to reject the car. 
Mr W accepted the investigators view. MBFS didnt. In response it made numerous points 
about why it disagreed with the investigator. After lengthy discussions, no agreement was 
reached. So, as the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: was the car supplied to Mr W by MBFS of satisfactory quality? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I think is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the evidence.
 
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement, so this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Under the hire purchase agreement, MBFS is also the 
supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that there is an implied term in any contract to 
supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what 
a reasonable person would expect, taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances 
included  but arent limited to  the age and mileage of the car.
 
MBFS supplied a brand-new car to Mr W. It was also a relatively expensive, high-end car 
with a cash price of over £52,000. Im satisfied that a reasonable person would expect the 
quality to be of a higher standard than a cheaper, more road worn car  and also to be of a 
higher standard than a similar but less expensive car.
 
Mr W first told the dealership about the issues with the tyres in June 2018. This hasnt been 
disputed. Neither MBFS nor the manufacturer have disputed that Mr Ws car is affected by 
tyre skipping. Indeed, both have said this is a normal characteristic of the make and model of 
Mr Ws car. So, Im satisfied the skipping issue isnt something that was, or was likely to 
have been caused by Mr W, or was a result or normal wear and tear. 
The crux of this complaint is whether the issues with the car, as supplied, makes it of 
unsatisfactory quality. MBFSs position is that the tyre skipping issue is an acceptable 
characteristic, rather than something that would entitle Mr W to seek rejection of the car 
under the CRA.
 
Ive thought about whether or not the way Mr Ws car is handling is considered to be a 
normal and acceptable characteristic of that model or type of car. Ive considered that cars 
will handle in a particular way that wont necessarily be considered a defect. Depending on 
what type of car you choose (and to some degree how much you spend) there will be 
reasonably varying degrees of mechanical noise, vibration and smoothness. The tyre issue Mr W is unhappy with is a skipping sensation. MBFS has provided a detailed 
argument explaining that the tyre skipping sensation is due to a dependency on a certain 
element of tyre wall flexibility to help absorb the angels of steering when in firm lock. It goes 
on to say this can be heightened during cold weather  although I note Mr W first raised this 
issue in June 2018 in the middle of summer. MBFS has said the skipping occurs at low 
speeds when manoeuvring, such as when parking.
 
Im also aware form other information available to me that the manufacturer has indicated 
the skipping is down to the design of some of the moving parts of the car which only affects 
those built for right hand drive. It says this design doesnt impact performance or safety and 
so isnt a defect. 
In this specific case, MBFS has said the skipping issue impacts all this group from the 
manufacturer of a similar make and model to Mr Ws. But it goes on to say some customers 
are likely not to notice the sensation, while others are likely to experience it more. MBFS 
also says that overall, the number of complaints and concerns raised are a fraction of the 
actual vehicles sold. Im satisfied this means that what Mr W was experiencing with his car 
wasnt necessarily the same as other users with the same model. So, Im less persuaded 
that the issue is an acceptable characteristic of the car  if it was, I would have expected it to 
have impacted every single car in the group.
 
I can also see that Mr W had two sets of front tyres replaced free of charge. These were 
replaced around September 2018 and again just over 12 months later. I wouldnt have 
expected for these to have been replaced free of charge if Mr Ws car was performing as 
expected. 
I can also see that the manufacturer advised that the cars tracking geometry was looked at 
in August 2018. Ive seen an email from the manufacturer the next month telling Mr W that a 
full alignment check had been carried out and the dealership had a new wheel alignment 
machine which it was hoped would resolve the issues once and for all. Less than a week 
later, the manufacturer told Mr W there were no known issues for the make and model of his 
car. None of this is consistent with the tyre skipping being how the car was expected to 
perform.
 
Im also aware that the manufacturer has offered a fix for the skipping issue. This involves 
adjusting the steering rack. This fix isnt available for every car in the affected group. Its not 
clear if its available for Mr Ws car. But this does seem to further undermine that these cars 
were performing as expected. Instead, the proposed fix does seem to support that the tyre 
skipping issue was an unacceptable feature in the manufacture of some of the cars affected 
by this issue.
 
MBFS has provided reports from two independent sources that it says supports its position. 
While these reports dont relate to Mr Ws car, or the exact same model, they do relate to 
cars from a similar group. Ive fully considered both these reports. Both confirmed the 
presence of tyre skipping  but they also conclude that the safety of the cars in question 
wasnt affected by this issue. I accept this. 
Overall, I dont think the skipping issue impacts the safety of Mr Ws car. But Im satisfied 
there was a skipping sensation. This seems to have affected the tyre wear. Mr W has been 
consistent throughout over this issue. His version of events is supported by the numerous 
emails Ive read between himself, the dealership, the manufacturer and MBFS. Its clear this 
issue, amongst others, has troubled him from the start. 
I can see Mr W, covered just over 30,000 miles while he was using the car. This is broadly in 
line with his agreement with MBFS. I wouldnt expect him to need to have to twice replace 
the front tyres during this time. I can also see that soon after the front tyres were first replaced  within 600 miles - Mr W again reported the uneven tyre wear to the dealership. 
Im satisfied this would generally suggest something wasnt right with the car. 
MBFS has argued that its Mr Ws driving style that has caused the tyre wear. Its pointed to 
him having a number of wheel alignments carried out to support this point. But I dont agree. 
On balance, it seems to me the tracking geometry work was carried out to try and solve the 
tyre issue, not because it had been caused by Mr W. Also, Im aware of Mr Ws wider driving 
background. Im satisfied he is a more than competent driver.
 
 MBFS has also suggested that Mr W could have been fully informed of the tyre skipping 
issue before he got the car. But its provided nothing to back this up or shown this was 
actually the case. On the other hand, Mr W maintains no one ever told him about this before 
he got the car  and if this was the case, I would have expected the dealership to have 
raised this during its numerous and lengthy discussions with Mr W.
 
The above notwithstanding, this case isnt clear cut. While it seems all parties agree about 
the tyre skipping issue being present, the severity of it - and how its affected Mr W - is in 
dispute. Hes been consistent and credible throughout about the issues hes had. Mr Ws 
obvious discontent with the situation from the start has been backed up by the numerous 
emails between himself, the dealership, the manufacturer and MBFS.
 
As Ive said, the available evidence doesnt satisfy me theres a safety issue here. But 
overall, Im not satisfied this car was performing in line with what a reasonable person might 
expect from a car of this price and description. So, after taking into consideration all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual case, Im satisfied on balance the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
 
As above, while Im satisfied here that the tyre skipping issue means the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, I would point out that Mr W has had other issues with the car. These 
include some that have been remedied  such as the radiator cross member struts, a loose 
mirror, problems with the audio unit, door trim noise and the car being recalled to fix an issue 
with the rear spoiler. Theres also the unresolved issue which Mr W says affects the 
gearbox. These issues dont directly affect the outcome here - Ive already explained why I 
dont think this car was of satisfactory quality - so I wont make any further comment on 
them.
 
Im satisfied that the replacement of the front tyres  twice  and the tracking geometry work 
were essentially an attempt at a repair. Ultimately, these efforts didnt resolve the tyre issue. 
MBFS stated in its final response to Mr W that the CRA gives it has one opportunity to repair 
each fault. But thats not quite right. The CRA gives MBFS one opportunity to repair the car 
so it conforms to contract  here that is to make it of satisfactory quality. It doesnt give it the 
opportunity to repair each individual issue. 
As above, Im satisfied a repair has been attempted. This didnt remedy the problem. So Im 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Mr W to exercise his right to reject the car. He 
tried to do this when he left the car with the dealership at the start of February 2020 and said 
he was exercising his right to reject. Im satisfied he should have been allowed to reject the 
car at this point. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about what MBFS now needs to do to put things right. 
Firstly it should end Mr Ws finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr W. It 
should also update Mr Ws credit file to reflect the end of the agreement and make sure any 
adverse information is removed if applicable. MBFS should also refund Mr Ws deposit of £4,110.11.
 
I can see Mr W did have full use of the car before he asked to reject it. Its fair he pays for 
that use. So, I think its fair for MBFS to keep the majority of the monthly payments Mr W 
paid up to when he left the car at the dealership in February 2020. But I do think Mr Ws 
driving experience was impacted by all the issues he had  and he was paying a significant 
amount each month for the use of the car without having the driving experience to a 
standard a reasonable person would expect in these circumstances.
 
Due to this impairment, I think he ought to receive a small amount back for each month he 
used the car. There isnt an exact formula for working this out. But after thinking about the 
individual circumstances here, I think a refund of 10% of each monthly repayment is fair.
 
From February 2020 onwards, MBFS should refund all of the payments Mr W made under 
the agreement. 
I can also see Mr W has kept the car insured since he left it at the dealership. He wouldnt 
have needed to do this if hed been able to reject when he wanted to. So MBFS should 
refund the cost of Mr Ws car insurance less any rebate he gets upon cancellation.
 
Mr W also continued to keep the car taxed for some time after he left it at the dealership. But 
Im aware MBFS said in mid-July 2020 he could have declared the car SORN. So, I think 
MBFS should refund the £255.75 Mr W paid for six months vehicle tax from February 2020, 
but I wont be asking it to refund anything further in respect of this.
 
Finally, Ive thought about the four policies Mr W took out that I listed above. These all 
provided cover from January 2018 to the end of January 2021. Im satisfied Mr W had the 
benefit of these policies while he was using the car. But he would have been able to cancel 
all of these with a third of the term left if hed been able to reject the car in February 2020 
when he wanted to. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for MBFS to refund a third of 
the total premiums  that is £559.33  in respect of this.
 
MBFS should add 8% yearly simply interest on all the above refunds.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr W;
update Mr Ws credit file to show the above and remove any adverse information if 
applicable;
refund him his deposit of £4,110.11;
refund 10% of his monthly payments from the start of the agreement up to and 
including the payment in January 2020;
refund 100% of Mr Ws monthly payments from February 2020 to date;
refund the cost of his car insurance from February 2020 to date less any rebate Mr W 
may get on cancellation; 
refund £255.75 being six months road tax; and
refund £559.33 being one third of the total premiums Mr W paid for the four policies 
detailed above.MBFS should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement apart from the £559.33 refund. The 8% yearly simple 
interest on this refund should be calculated from February 2020 to the date of settlement.
 
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman