DRN-3652452
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost in a 
scam. 
What happened
Mr G says he made the following payments as part of an investment scam. 
Date Amount Payee Method
26/11/20 £1,026.50 D Online
30/11/20 £2,050 D Online
07/12/20 £5,250 D Online
15/12/20 £16,000 D Online
12/01/21 £12,100 International Telephone banking
Total £36,426.50
He says that an online friend advised him of an investment opportunity that involved trading 
in currencies but later found out this was a scam. The scammer gave Mr G access to her 
trading account while she was on holiday and he saw that profits could be made. Mr G 
thought the funds he was sending were going to a trader who exchanged them to dollars and 
credited his trading account. Initially Mr G tried to make a card payment to D, but it was 
blocked, and he spoke to Santander. He says he was told Santander had completed checks 
and it was safe to make the payment, so Mr G then completed online transfers. 
The trader also introduced Mr G to her aunt and uncle and Mr G received trade tips from the 
aunt each day. Mr G had access to an online trading account that looked like it was making 
good money. 
On 4 January 2021 Mr G called Santander and said he thought he might have made 
payments as part of a scam but later that day called to say hed checked and now thought 
the company was genuine. Mr G was given advice about checking the FCA register. 
Mr Gs online friend then persuaded him to make an international payment to the details he 
was given for a different investment opportunity. At this stage Mr G says he thought his 
online friend and the broker  D  werent connected and he still trusted his online friend. 
Santander blocked the payment and spoke to Mr G about it, but Mr G doesnt think 
Santander went far enough. Mr G said later said he thought the final international payment 
was a scam payment, but the others were genuine. 
Mr G would like Santander to refund everything he lost in the scam. He says Santander 
failed in its duty to protect him and that in the calls he had when payments were made 
Santander didnt provide him with scam warnings or explain how bank transfers work and 
the difficulty in retrieving funds sent by this means. Mr G also says that he would never have 
sent funds if Santander hadnt told him that it was safe to do so when his first card payment 
to D was blocked. Santander did though stop the next payment to a new account saying it 
wasnt safe to send funds to that account. 
Mr G is also unhappy that his account was blocked after the scam was reported and with the 
problems he experienced as a result. Although Santander say his account was unblocked on 
2 February 2021, Mr G says he wasnt aware this was the case until a telephone 
conversation about his complaint on 9 February. 
Santander considered Mr Gs complaint under the CRM Code and hasnt provided a refund. 
It said Mr G authorised the payments and Santander provided scam warnings tailored to the 
stated payment purpose of paying friends and family on each occasion. These warnings 
were provided online for the payments made via this method and in a telephone 
conversation in respect of the international payment. Santander also said Mr G didnt 
complete sufficient checks to ensure the investments were genuine before making the 
payments and relied on what hed been told by someone he met online. Santander did what 
it could to recover Mr Gs funds but had been unsuccessful. Finally, Santander said there 
was no evidence it advised Mr G it was safe to send funds to D.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Gs complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
concluded that The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code doesnt apply to the 
payments Mr G made and went on to consider whether Santander should have prevented 
them from being made. The investigator didnt think the first three payments were unusual or 
out of character so didnt consider Santander should have had concerns about them. The 
fourth payment of £16,000 was for a larger amount but Mr G was by then paying an 
established payee and the payments werent made in quick succession. But in any event the 
investigator felt that even if Santander had asked questions about this payment Mr G would 
have gone ahead and made it. 
In respect of the international payment of £12,100 the investigator noted that Mr G wasnt 
truthful with Santander about the reason for this payment as he said it was for a friend. Also, 
this payment was made after a conversation with Santander in which a scam claim about the 
same investment scam was started on 4 January 2021. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Santander told Mr G it was safe to send any of his 
funds as Mr G suggested and also commented that it wasnt for Santander to verify if the 
investments were genuine. 
Finally, the investigator said that although Santander hadnt contacted the receiving banks 
as soon as it should have this hadnt affected any potential recovery. The receiving bank for 
the payments to D confirmed that it was a business account and provided evidence that all 
Mr Gs funds (including the £16,000 payment Mr G said didnt arrive) were exchanged into 
USDT, a type of cryptocurrency, which was then available to Mr G on a trading platform. 
Santander responded to the investigators view and said its position remained unchanged. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator and asked for his case to be reviewed so its been 
passed to me for a final decision. He said:
- He doesnt believe Santander protected him from loss.
- He considers the initial payment of just over £1,000 was unusual.
- He disagrees with the investigators comment that he was blinded by profits and 
would have gone ahead with the payments anyway.
As Mr G was unhappy with the investigators response his complaint was passed to me to 
consider. I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2022. In the What I think  and why 
section I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
CRM Code
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which 
Santander has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr G made the payments. Ive 
thought carefully about if the CRM code applies in the circumstances of the payments Mr G 
made and, if so, whether Santander ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM 
Code. International payments arent covered by the CRM Code so I will consider this 
payment separately. 
The payment journey in this case is a complex one as Mr Gs funds went from his account 
with Santander to D. D exchanged Mr Gs funds to cryptocurrency and then transferred them 
to a genuine trading platform Ill refer to as A. From this platform funds were transferred to a 
trading account which seems to be fake.  
On balance, I believe that Mr G lost control of his funds at the point he transferred them to D 
and so the CRM Code applies in this case. I say this because after completing some 
research its clear that D was registered on Companies House as an information technology 
company, not an investment company or currency exchange company. And information from 
Ds bank says that it didnt support the activity of exchanging funds into cryptocurrency. 
I have also seen evidence that D moved the cryptocurrency to an account in Mr Gs name at 
A. When D did so, it notified Mr G of this and Mr G let the scammer know so that funds could 
be transferred on from A to trade. Im not persuaded Mr G ever had control of the account 
with A though. He has explained that the scammer provided him with a username and 
password for the account but that when he tried to use the information to log in, he was 
unable to do so.
Given the points I have made above, I consider the CRM Code applies in this case. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr G was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for him to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mr G too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
Effective warnings
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide effective warnings (as set out 
in the CRM Code) to their customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a 
firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. I dont consider Santander was required to provide Mr G with a warning when he made the 
first two payments. These payments were relatively low in value and I dont believe there 
was anything about them that should have concerned Santander. 
The position is different in respect of the third payment (£5,250 on 7 December 2020). I 
consider that Santander should have provided Mr G with a warning when this payment was 
made. Ive not seen any evidence that a warning was provided but think it likely that even if 
one was it was the same warning Santander provided when Mr G made the next payment of 
£16,000. Ive explained below why I dont consider this was an effective warning under the 
CRM Code. If Santander provided a different warning for this payment that it believes was 
effective under the CRM Code, it should provide details in response to this provisional 
decision. 
I turn now to the fourth payment (of £16,000) on 15 December 2020. Santander say it 
provided a warning at the time the payment was made. The warning was based on the 
payment reason given by Mr G, which was that it was a payment to friends and family, and 
said,
If you have been asked to transfer money or are unsure about the payment you are making 
please do not complete the request.
Im not satisfied I can reasonably conclude that the requirements of the effective warning 
exception were met. I dont think the warning was impactful or specific enough. The warning 
didnt bring to life common features of the scam or how a customer might protect 
themselves. I also think that if Santander had explained the consequences of continuing with 
an irrevocable payment Mr Gs decision-making would have been affected and hed have 
taken additional steps to protect himself. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person would fully understand the scam risk from 
the warning Santander gave. And as an effective warning wasnt given, I cant reasonably 
conclude that Mr G ignored such a warning. 
As I dont think Santander has been able to establish Mr G ignored any effective warnings in 
respect of the £5,250 and £16,000 payments, as a starting point I think its liable for 50% of 
these payments under the CRM Code. 
Reasonable basis for belief
Ive gone on to think about whether Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing he was 
investing in a genuine investment and paying a genuine payee. Ive considered what steps 
he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the investment, and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payments.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
G and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Santander has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Mr G made are enough to support its position that he failed to 
meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I dont think 
he had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine services or that the 
person he transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
-Mr G was approached by someone he hadnt met on social media and decided to 
invest based on what he was told. Social media isnt a normal platform for legitimate 
investments and there was nothing to say the person Mr G communicated with was 
qualified to provide advice. 
-Mr G wasnt provided with any documentation about the investment. At a later date 
he could see how his investment was doing on what he now believes to be a fake 
trading platform. There was no identification process, no contract and nothing to say 
what Mr G had agreed with the individual he met on social media.  -Mr G didnt complete any checks to satisfy himself it was a legitimate investment 
opportunity. He has referred to looking D up at Companies House, but he told 
Santander he did this after he became aware he was the victim of a scam. And as 
Ive said above, if Mr G had looked up D at Companies House hed have seen that D 
was registered as being involved in information technology and not currency 
exchange or investments, so this should reasonably have caused him to be 
concerned. Given that Mr G has explained he invested his life savings Im persuaded 
he should have researched the person he met on social media, D and what he was 
investing in. 
-Although Mr G believed he was making an investment when he made payments he 
chose as the payment reason paying friends and family. Im uncertain why Mr D did 
so, but if he was told by the scammer to lie to his bank this should have been a red 
flag to him. If the investment was genuine there would be no reason to give a false 
payment reason.  
-The scammer told Mr G to make the second payment to a different payee (rather 
than to D). When Mr G called Santander to make the payment he was told that 
Santander had made a business decision not to send any funds to that account and 
that Santander had concerns about the account. Mr G then spoke to the scammer 
who advised him to make the payment to D. I think this interaction with Santander 
and the concerns Santander expressed about the payee should reasonably have 
resonated with Mr G and led him to take further steps to ensure he was making a 
genuine investment.  
So I dont think Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing what he was told by the 
scammer(s). Under the CRM Code this means Mr G isnt entitled to any refund in respect of 
the first two payments he made but Santander is liable for 50% of the next two payments. 
Mr G has told this service that he wouldnt have made any of the payments if Santander 
hadnt reassured him that it was safe to make the first payment to D. Ive listened to the call 
recordings Santander has provided from this time and am not persuaded Santander told Mr 
G it had checked D and it was safe to make the payment. 
Im persuaded that Mr D was told that Santander needed to do a confirmation of payee 
check. Santander explained that such a check would confirm if the details matched. The 
security team then confirmed it was likely the payment didnt go through because they 
wanted to make sure it was Mr G who was making it because of the amount. The restriction 
was then removed because Mr G confirmed the payment was genuine, not because 
Santander had determined that it was safe to pay D. 
International payment
The CRM Code doesnt apply to international transfers, so Ive considered whether I think 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably when this payment was made. Santander should 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. For these reasons, Santander flagged this 
payment and had a conversation with Mr G about it. 
Ive been provided with a recording of Santanders first call with Mr G on 12 January 2021 
when he said he wanted to pay £12,100 to a friend. In this call Santander said its online 
banking didnt allow international transactions to be made but the payment could be made 
over the phone. Mr G was told that Santander had extra security in place so the international 
payments team would call him back. The agent noted that Mr G didnt have sufficient funds 
to make the transfer and Mr G explained he would use his overdraft facility. As there was a 
charge for the payment Mr G was told hed need to credit the account with £24 for the 
payment to go through.Santander initially wasnt able to find a recording of the next call with the international 
payments team but sent this call when I started my investigation. Having listened to the call I 
dont consider Santander did enough. Im persuaded Santander should have asked 
proportionate questions to satisfy itself Mr G wasnt at risk of financial harm. There are no 
set questions, but I consider that Santander should have asked what Mr Gs friend needed 
the money for and how the money had been requested.  
In the call Santander simply asked Mr G for a payment reason and then read a scam script 
appropriate to the given reason  paying a friend. The Santander agent then read a scam 
script that said,
If youre making a payment to someone that told you they need money urgently this could 
be a scam. Please dont proceed with the payment if youre being pressurised to make a 
payment. Please consider our warnings. Are you comfortable to continue?
So Mr G wasnt asked why a friend abroad needed £12,100. Given that Mr G had recently 
been told he was likely the victim of a scam in respect of his last payment to D Id expect 
Santander to take additional care before processing another significant payment. There were 
a number of red flags here too like the fact Mr G was paying another new payee, was 
making an international payment and the payment cleared his account of funds. Mr G also 
said he was paying friends and family, which is what hed said previously and would mean 
hed sent a significant amount to friends and family in a short time period. 
I consider that if Santander had asked Mr G further questions about the international 
payment the scam would have been uncovered and the payment wouldnt have been made. 
This is particularly so given that Santander identified scam risks when Mr G made the 
previous payment.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr G should also bear some responsibility for the loss of 
£12,100 and have concluded that he should. I refer to the reasons I have stated above about 
why Mr G didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was genuine and also 
to the fact Santander told Mr G shortly before the payment that it thought Mr G was being 
scammed. This was during a call on 4 January 2021 when Mr G called Santander to check if 
funds sent on 15 December 2020 had been released to the beneficiary. Santander raised a 
scam claim during the call as it thought Mr G was being scammed. 
Given this I consider Mr G should have exercised a high level of caution before trusting the 
same person and making a different investment. Mr G was on notice that he was likely to 
have been scammed but even then didnt complete any checks to ensure his funds were 
being invested legitimately. So I consider Mr G should receive 50% of the international 
payment.
Interest
I can see that Mr G transferred £5,250 into his Santander account from another account in 
his name before making the £5,250 payment to D. So I propose to award interest on the 
refund of 50% of this payment at the originating account rate. The payments of £16,000 and 
£12,100 were funded by transfers into Mr Gs account from third parties, meaning any loss of 
interest isnt Mr Gs. In the circumstances, I dont propose to award any interest on the 50% 
refunds in respect of these payments.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Mr G said he thought 
Santander should refund his loss in full. Ive summarised Mr Gs main points below:
- Santander caused him physical and mental stress which could have been avoided if 
it had properly protected him when he made the payments.
- Santander failed to carry out a thorough review and only provided call recordings 
when I asked for them. 
- He had no investment experience so didnt know that what he was being offered was too good to be true.
- In respect of the international payment, Mr G referred to the fact the scammer told 
him to say it was a payment to a friend and he provided the investigator with proof of 
this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed the responses I have received my final decision is that set out in 
my provisional decision (reproduced above). 
I explained in my provisional decision that I didnt think Santander needed to provide 
warnings in respect of the first two payments as they werent unusual and there was no 
obvious scam risk. I agree with Mr G that Santander should have done more to protect him 
when he made the subsequent payments. This is why I consider Santander should refund 
50% of them.
I accept Mr G was an inexperienced investor so may not have known the deal he was 
offered by the scammer was too good to be true. But I highlighted other reasons why I felt Mr 
G should bear some responsibility for his loss in my provisional decision. For example, the 
fact that he was offered an opportunity to invest by someone on social media, was given no 
documentation and didnt complete any checks at all before transferring significant sums of 
money. So I still think Mr G didnt show the level of care required to receive a full refund of 
these payments under the CRM Code. Similar considerations apply to the international 
payment. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Santander should pay Mr G compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its actions. Mr G has referred to the 
distress suffered by his whole family. I should be clear that I can only consider Mr Gs 
distress.
Mr G has said that Santander didnt adequately protect him when he made the payments 
and didnt investigate his later complaint properly. Ive concluded that Santander didnt 
provide Mr G with effective warnings under the CRM Code when he made payments of 
£5,250 and £16,000 and didnt go far enough when Mr G made the international payment of 
£16,000. But I also need to bear in mind that Mr G wasnt truthful with Santander about the 
reason for each payment meaning that it was more difficult for Santander to protect him. And 
Santander followed the correct process in investigating Mr Gs concerns and then referring 
him to this service if he was still unhappy. I appreciate Santander didnt provide call 
recordings of all relevant calls initially, but this complaint handling isnt something I can 
consider as part of my decision.
I consider that much of the distress and inconvenience Mr G has suffered was ultimately as 
a result of the actions of a cruel scammer and I cant hold Santander responsible for this. In 
all the circumstances, Im not awarding anything more to Mr G. 
My final decision
I require Santander UK Plc to:
- Pay Mr G 50% of the £5,250 and £16,000 payments (£10,625);
- Pay interest on £2,625 (50% of the £5,250 payment) at the rate applicable to the 
account the funds were transferred from. 
- Pay Mr G 50% of the international payment (so £6,050), plus 50% of any international payment fee charged in respect of this payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman