DRN-3305178
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as 
LVs (LV) decision to decline cover for a buildings insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr B and Ms H say, during a period of stormy weather and high rainfall, their home suffered 
a roof leak which caused internal damage to the stairway and entrance hall. They reported 
this to LV who appointed an agent, who Ill refer to as company H, to investigate this. 
Company H arranged an inspection at Mr B and Ms Hs home and then informed them the 
roof damage was caused by poor workmanship and not storm conditions. LV then agreed to 
cover the claim for internal damage but declined the claim for the external roof damage.  
Mr B and Ms H complained and LV responded and said, when Mr B and Ms H first reported 
the issue, they said they had noticed their roof had a hole and there was internal damage. 
They said Mr B and Ms H explained they bought the property a year ago and were informed 
by the previous owners they had the roof retiled. LV said they appointed their roofing 
specialist, company H, to inspect the damage and validate the claim. LV said, on inspection, 
company H found the flashings that had been applied at the junction of the roof surface and 
the wall had been fitted to a poor standard. They said lead flashing shouldve been used, but 
the inspection showed flashband had been used. LV said this left a gap between the 
flashband and the render allowing water to enter. LV said this would fall under the definition 
of poor and faulty workmanship  and this was an exception under the policy. LV said the 
claim for the internal damage did meet the relevant policy criteria so they would cover that.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Ms H. She thought LV hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining the claim. Mr B and Ms H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B and Ms H will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr B and Ms Hs home insurance policy. This covers their property for 
loss or damage caused by storm. 
The policy also says, under the heading General exceptions, LV wont cover damage 
caused by faulty design, material or workmanship. So, Im satisfied that LV shouldve 
looked into Mr B and Ms Hs claim because they reported the damage was caused by a 
storm. Ive then looked at whether LVs decision to decline the claim for the external roof 
damage, and their reason for doing so, is fair and reasonable.      
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question, I note Mr B and Ms Hs policy doesnt define storm. But, in 
the response to the complaint, LV, when considering the claim for internal damage, say they 
regard a storm as being strong winds usually accompanied by heavy or persistent rain. And, 
they accept there was rain that they would class as storm conditions for the month in which 
Mr B and Ms H noticed the damage. That means the answer to the first question is yes.   
 
I can also answer yes to question two. Heavy and persistent rain, sufficient to be classed as 
storm conditions, can damage property, so Im satisfied the damage claimed in this instance 
is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm.
Turning to the final question, I now need to consider whether the storm  in this case the 
heavy and persistent rain - was the main cause of the damage in this instance. Insurers 
often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and thats what 
LV did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for LV to rely on the report when 
deciding whether to meet the claim. In this case, LV instructed company H who they say are 
their roofing specialists. Ive seen company Hs report and this says,
We have carried out a full inspection of the main roof to find that the flashings to the 
abutments have been fitted in to a poor standard, this is poor workmanship. The current 
flashings which have been fitted to the property are flashband when they should have used 
lead. There is a gap between the current flashband and the render, and this is letting water 
in. The images also show that there is flashband all around the abutment walls which should 
be lead flashing. There is no external storm damage and no [accidental damage] cover for 
either buildings or contents BUT the storm matrix does advise that cover can be offered 
under the storm peril as there was sufficient rainfall on the loss date so the damage is 
covered by this criteria. Weather Consideration 0 mph winds recorded. 35.7 mm of rain.
  
The report notes company H carried out an inspection and also contains photos of the roof. 
Company H conclude Considering all the evidence available on survey it is our considered 
opinion that the damage claimed has been as the result of No Peril related Damage. 
Damage considered under storm criteria for rainfall. 
I can see Mr B and Ms H explained they werent happy with the decision to decline the claim 
for external damage. Company H then emailed Mr B and Ms H and attached the photos 
taken by the contractor. They say, rainfall alone wouldnt have caused the issues identified 
during the inspection. They say flashband had been used and not lead flashing and the latter 
should be used to ensure the roof is structurally sound and able to withstand rainfall, even 
rainfall of an unusual nature. 
Company H say they have discussed this with LV and they maintain their decision to decline 
the claim for external damage as no storm damage was found and poor workmanship is an 
exclusion under the policy. 
Taking this into account, I cant say LV have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the 
claim. LV have instructed a suitable expert here to investigate the damage and they have 
relied on the experts findings to arrive at their decision. I can see Mr B and Ms H say they had lived in the property for several months, during which 
there had been periods of severe rain, but there hadnt been any leaks on these occasions. 
Then, suddenly, during a more extreme storm, the roof leaked. They believe this suggests 
the damage to the roof was caused by the storm. I do acknowledge this and I can 
understand why Mr B and Ms H believe this narrows down the possible causes of the 
damage to one storm incident. But, I dont believe heavy rain was the main cause for the 
damage. Company H say the damage wouldnt have occurred had lead flashing been used 
as this wouldve been able to withstand rainfall of an unusual nature. I havent seen any 
independent evidence that challenges the opinion of company H or otherwise suggests that 
flashband provides the same level of robustness as lead flashing to ensure a roof is 
structurally sound. And, in the report, company H have made reference to the specific type 
of lead flashing which is required here. So, Im persuaded by the opinion of company H.      
Mr B and Ms H say the contractor who inspected their roof didnt lift up the tarpaulin they had 
placed over the leak. Mr B and Ms H question how company H can give an opinion on the 
damaged area when theres no evidence they inspected it. Ive seen the photos taken by the 
contractor when they inspected the roof and they do show the tarpaulin in place over the 
damaged area. But, this doesnt persuade me they didnt inspect the damaged area. I say 
this because the report comments on the contractor having carried out a full inspection and 
finding that theres a gap between the flashband and the render, and this is whats letting 
water in. This point suggests the contractor will have inspected the damaged area to have 
been able to comment on there being a gap. Given how the photos show the tarpaulin 
covering the damaged area, I dont believe the contractor would be able to make that finding 
without having looked underneath the tarpaulin. I acknowledge the photos dont show the 
actual damaged area, but I think its more likely than not the damaged area was inspected.   
Mr B and Ms H say, when applying for insurance, they were asked to complete a 
questionnaire which included details about the materials and nature of the roof. They say, if 
lead flashing is necessary for insurance cover, this shouldve been mentioned in the 
questionnaire. I do acknowledge this and I understand why Mr B and Ms H feel this wouldve 
been helpful to know at the time they took the insurance policy out. But our service doesnt 
have power to require a business to change their processes. Or to direct a business on the 
questions they should ask a customer when taking out insurance cover. I would also add, 
insurers generally set out broad reasons for what things will or wont be covered under the 
policy, but they generally wont set out what specific materials will or wont be covered.  
I note Mr B and Ms H say a professional roofer installed the flashband and, after the leak, a 
separate builder suggested they only need to repair the area around the damage, and not 
the entire roof edge. They say, both of these professional opinions suggest flashband isnt 
poor workmanship as neither of them suggested replacing it with lead flashing. I understand 
this point but I dont think the two professionals mentioned by Mr B and Ms H will have been 
considering the same test as LV. 
I dont think its in dispute that flashband can be used as a way of sealing gaps at wall 
abutments to prevent the entry of rain. So, the roofer who installed the flashband wouldve 
been considering how best to carry out the work to ensure there was sealing in place. And, 
the builder would be looking at how best to rectify the damage to the roof. 
But, LV are considering a test here which looks at whether the storm conditions were the 
main cause of the damage or something else. So, this involves looking beyond just the 
question of there being sealing in place but what material was used for that sealing and 
whether this was the main cause for the damage being claimed for. 
Mr B and Ms H say LV didnt act promptly when dealing with their claim and say they had to 
chase for several days but were passed between LV and company H. Ive looked at the 
timeline of events here but dont agree LV have delayed in dealing with the claim. The information shows Mr B and Ms H reported the damage on 7 August and initially LV carried 
out a weather search but couldnt identify any storm conditions. Mr B and Ms H called back 
two days later and LV then carried out another weather search but this time it did show a 
level of rainfall which they classed as storm conditions. So, LV instructed company H the 
same day and they carried out an inspection the following day. Company H then informed  
Mr B and Ms H of their decision to decline the claim for the external roof three days later. 
There was further communication between Mr B and Ms H and LV and company H but I 
cant say there was any delay or unreasonable periods of inactivity on the part of LV. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Ms H as I can see they firmly believe the damage to their 
roof is as a direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure them that I have carefully 
considered their points and arguments and understand why they believe the heavy rainfall 
was responsible for the damage to their roof. But, the evidence Ive seen persuades me that, 
its more likely than not, the heavy rain wasnt the main cause of the damage. My role is to 
consider whether LV have acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. And, for the 
reasons I have given, I think they have.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman