DRN-2765225
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM). 
Hes unhappy about the delay in completing the transfer of his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). He says this led to him paying extra fees during the delay period and that he 
missed investment opportunities due to the delay.
  
What happened
Mr P held a SIPP with HLAM. In October 2019 he decided to transfer the SIPP to another 
provider. He contacted HLAM and requested the transfer on 5 November 2019. The 
instructions were for a partial in-specie transfer of all holdings except one holding which 
would remain in the HLAM SIPP, and another which was to be liquidated and the proceeds 
transferred as cash.
On 5 November 2019, HLAM issued a transfer application acknowledgement letter. This
letter explained what happens whilst the transfer is underway and the services available to 
Mr P. This letter was sent again on 9 December 2019.
In November 2019, HLAM incorrectly sold some of the SIPPs holdings but this was quickly 
rectified.
On 11 November 2019 and 17 December 2019, HLAM sent Mr P requests to complete
and return the transfer out form. This was signed by Mr P and dated 2 January 2020. It was 
received by HLAM on 6 January 2020.
On 10 February 2020, the new provider emailed HLAM confirming the request to transfer Mr 
Ps SIPP and confirmed that it accepted the existing holdings.
On 3 March 2020, Mr P made a complaint to HLAM about the delay.
On 23 April 2020, majority of the SIPPs holdings were transferred to the new SIPP provider 
and on 14 May 2020, the entire SIPP transfer was completed.
On 7 May 2020, HLAM upheld Mr Ps complaint. It accepted that there had been delay and 
offered Mr P £250 for the inconvenience caused. However, HLAM didnt believe there was 
any investment loss.
Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. The investigator concluded that a fair 
outcome would be for HLAM to pay £250 for any inconvenience it had caused and refund 
any fees paid by Mr P to HLAM between 10 February 2020 and 14 May 2020, when the 
SIPP transfer was completed.
The investigator was satisfied that there had been delay by HLAM, but he wasnt satisfied 
that Mr P had suffered any investment loss.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary:
HLAM are motivated to take clients onboard quickly but release them slowly. His 
funds were held for six months preventing him making investment decisions in a 
volatile market. This service should hold HLAM accountable for underinvesting in its 
transfer operation.
HLAM lied and falsely blamed the new SIPP provider for the delay. 
He had been attributed with knowledge and options that he did not have during the 
transfer process. Why would he trade out of this agreement to transfer in-specie into 
cash to arrange a cash transfer option that he did not know about?
There was no explanation of how compensation had been calculated. He had lost 6 
months optionality on £200,000, even at 5 per cent return that is £10,000.
The investigator responded and explained that this service isnt the regulator of the financial 
market and its not our duty to audit HLAM. He had concluded that HLAM were at fault for 
delays from 10 February 2020 onward. HLAM hadnt caused six months delay as they didnt 
receive the signed transfer out form until 6 January 2020, and they didnt get a confirmation 
from the new provider to accept the holdings until 10 February 2020. There was no evidence 
that HLAM had lied. Mr P was asked to provide evidence of that if he had any. Mr P said that 
he was unaware of the option to transfer cash in advance, however, this option was 
explained on two occasions.
The investigator also explained that any loss in respect of management charges was likely to 
be minimal. HLAM had been paid around £37. If charges werent paid to them, charges 
would have been raised by the new provider in any event.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. HLAM accepts that it was responsible for delay in the transfer 
process. But the delay period wasnt six months as Mr P suggests. Mr P was made aware 
that the transfer would only go ahead once HLAM received acceptance from the new 
provider. This was received on 10 February 2020. At that point the holdings should have 
begun to be transferred by HLAM. Unfortunately, most of the holdings werent transferred 
until 23 April 2020 and the SIPP transfer wasnt completed until 14 May 2020.
I agree with the investigator that HLAM could have been more vigorous in its dealings with 
fund managers which could have reduced the delay. However, any period of delay for which 
HLAM could reasonably be held responsible is two to three months, and not six.
On the issue of investment loss, it is clear from the correspondence that was sent to Mr P 
that he was told that the cash balance on his SIPP account would be last to transfer out. But 
he was also told that he did have the option to transfer the cash whilst the stock holdings 
were pending transfer. Mr P says that he would have made a particular investment if he had 
access to his SIPP funds, but he told the investigator that he did make that investment using 
his cash reserve after the SIPP transfer was completed. I agree with the investigator that this 
is something Mr P could have done despite any delay by HLAM. He couldve transferred 
cash and made the investment sooner if he had wished to. I think he had sufficient information about that if it was critical to him. The investigator isnt wrong to attribute 
knowledge to Mr P that he ought reasonably to have had.
I agree that HLAM was responsible for the delay in transfer. But the delay wasnt six months 
as Mr P suggests. Im not satisfied that there was any specific investment loss. The transfer 
was largely in-specie and Mr P could have accessed the cash reserves to make investments 
sooner if he had wished to. He had been told about that.
Putting things right
I accept that Mr P did suffer distress and inconvenience. I think an award of £250 is fair.
Any loss in respect of management charges is likely to be minimal in my view. If the transfer 
had gone ahead sooner, Mr P would have paid fees to the new provider instead of HLAM, so 
there may be no loss at all unless the new provider has lower charges. If the new provider 
does have lower charges, I think HLAM should pay Mr P the difference in charges over the 
relevant period (10 February to 14 May).
My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr P £250 (if it has not 
already done so) and any difference in management charges as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman