DRN-1677105
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. Mr S completed an 
application form for his credit card and the PPI policy was added at the same time. Barclays 
has confirmed that the application was completed in a branch and that this was an advised 
sale.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. Having done so, Im not upholding 
it for reasons that Ill explain.
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form which Mr S signed at the time. Theres a 
section on this about PPI. This says: Please tick box above if you require payment 
protection A cross has been placed next to this.
So, on the information available to me, I think that Mr S would have known he had a choice 
about buying the policy and actively decided to do so. But the sale happened a long time 
ago, so I can understand why he may not recall this now.
I cant now know what Barclays did to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr S. But 
from what I know of his circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt 
have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr S appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Mr S says he would have received generous sick pay from his employer at the time 
of the sale and also had some savings. So he doesnt think he needed the PPI cover. 
But this policy would have paid out for up to twelve months if he wasnt able to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment, as well as giving Mr S some life 
cover. It would have paid out in addition to his other means and he chose to take the cover, so it looks like he valued the sort of protection the PPI gave him. This means I 
still think Mr S would have thought the extra security the policy gave him was worth 
paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr S. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. 
 
Barclays also needed to ensure that Mr S received enough information about the PPI policy 
for him to decide if it met his needs. From what Ive seen, I think the information it gave him 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr S, I dont think better information would have changed his mind 
about taking it. I think he would have thought the policy gave him useful cover at an 
affordable cost.
So I dont think Mr S has lost out by anything Barclays may have done wrong when it sold 
him this PPI policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman