DRN-3395130
The complaint
U, a business, complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA  trading as Zettle by PayPal 
hasnt credited all the card payments taken to its account.
What happened
The owner of U explains that she took a merchant services agreement with PayPal which 
allowed her to take payments for her business by card. She says that she is sure that 
PayPal hasnt credited U with all the payments taken for the business on 22 March 2020. 
She remembers this as a very busy day before the lockdown for the pandemic. And she 
estimates that with 200 customers the transactions must have come to some £2,500. 
Instead the amount credited was only around £500 for less than 60 customers.
PayPal said it hadnt made a mistake. It had reconciled all payments to the amounts paid. It 
had provided U with details of the specific transactions on 22 March 2020. It couldnt identify 
any mistake. It noted that on 7 December 2020 there had been a delay in crediting U for 
payments due then as a result of a technical problem. That money was credited on 10 
December 2020. That wasnt evidence of any other earlier problem that hadnt been 
corrected.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
PayPal has investigated the concerns raised by U. It had found no errors and the information 
it had provided showed a reconciliation over the period. U didnt have any other evidence to 
support its claim. PayPal had told U of the specific issue in December 2020.
U didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It said it had additional evidence 
but didnt provide anything more. The owner explained the difficult circumstances she was in 
and the importance of this missing money. She initially asked for more time to provide the 
evidence. But after that extension she said that U would accept a decision based on what is 
available. PayPal is now providing weekly reports which will help U identify any future 
issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the personal circumstances of the owner of U. Weve extended the 
deadline for a response. And shes now said she doesnt want a further extension before I 
issue my decision. I can assure Ive read what has already been provided and said on behalf 
of U.
She vividly describes trading for U on 22 March 2020 and on earlier Sundays in March 2020 
and that this supports that there were higher sales. She refers to a Sunday in November 
later in the year when U took nearly £2,000 of sales. She remembers having reached over 
£2,500 of sales on that specific day in March.
I dont doubt thats her genuine belief and thats why shes pursued this issue. But 
unfortunately, there is no other evidence to support this. PayPal has provided a copy of its 
records. And these show the transactions during that day. There are no obvious gaps during 
the day or on the face of it issues with the information. Its reconciled that to what was paid, 
and its also provided details which reconcile transactions over the extended period from 
March 2019 to September 2021.
Clearly technical errors can happen as in December 2020. But Im satisfied that this was 
corrected. And as I say I dont say have a list of missing transactions on any other date that 
U can show for some reason werent credited.
So, Im afraid I dont have a basis to find that PayPal made a mistake and needs to do 
anything further. I fully understand how disappointed the owner of U will be.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman