DRN-3581994
The complaint
C, a limited company, says Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (AJG) sold it 
insurance which didnt meet its needs. C is represented by one of its directors, Mr W. 
What happened
C is a supplier of goods to countries around the world. Its had a cargo insurance policy 
arranged through AJG for many years. Last year it told AJG about a potential claim on the 
policy as goods being transported between two overseas locations had been damaged in 
transit. I understand that claim was turned down by the insurer because the policy didnt 
cover shipments which originated from outside the UK. In addition the value of the shipment 
was significantly more than C was insured for. 
C said AJG had sold it a policy that didnt meet its needs. It thought it should take 
responsibility for the costs of inspecting and replacing the damaged goods. AJG didnt think 
it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator explained we couldnt look at matters prior to 1 April 2019 which was when 
our jurisdiction was extended to include complaints from small businesses like C. That 
meant we couldnt consider any concerns about the original sale of the policy. We could look 
at what happened at renewals after 1 April 2019. But she didnt think AJG had done anything 
wrong in relation to that. The renewal documentation set out what the policy covered and 
made clear C should check if the policy continued to meet its needs.  
Mr W didnt agree. He said the renewal information didnt make clear the basis on which 
cover was being provided and in fact suggested C was covered on a worldwide basis. And 
AJG should have checked at renewal whether C was shipping goods between countries but 
only asked about that after the claim had been made. He also raised concerns about a 
business assist policy C had taken out alongside the cargo insurance policy. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained (and Mr W has accepted) we cant consider issues relating to 
the original sale of this policy because that was taken out before we were able to consider 
complaints from businesses like C. But I can consider acts of omissions which took place on 
or after 1 April 2019.
That means I can look at whether AJG did anything wrong when the policy was renewed. I 
recognise that this was an advised sale and the relevant rules (the Insurance Code of 
Business Sourcebook - ICOBS) require that a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.  
However, in relation to renewals (rather than the initial sale of the policy which Im not able to 
consider) the rules generally require a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure a 
customer is given appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed. 
And we wouldnt generally expect a seller to go through the same process at each renewal 
as they would when the policy is first sold. Sellers normally invite renewal based on the 
information they currently hold about the policy holder including anything the policy holder 
has disclosed throughout the term of the policy. But its important the business checks this. 
So the renewal invitation should outline the key details the business is relying on when 
offering the policy to enable the customer to check if those are correct. 
In this case I understand the issues giving rise to Cs claim took place within the policy 
period following the August 2020 renewal., And I can see in advance of the renewal date 
AJG did provide policy documentation to it including an insurance schedule. It said C should 
read your documentation pack carefully to confirm that the cover meets your requirements, 
paying particular attention to exclusions, warranties, conditions, excesses and limits. In an 
Action required by you summary at the end of the renewal letter it said in relation to the 
policy schedule Please check to ensure this is correct and advise me immediately if there 
are any terms you are unable to comply with or do not understand. 
Ive reviewed that schedule and I can see it did set out the limits on cover for goods either 
being conveyed or stored in a location. So I think that was made clear. And I note C had 
previously contacted AJG to ask for these limits to be increased which indicates it was aware 
of them. However, in relation to where goods can be transported from and to, the schedule 
does include a definition of geographical limits which includes any place in the world. I 
understand C relied on that when deciding the policy met its needs for transit between 
different countries.
But while that paragraph sets out the geographical limits of the policy the cover itself is then 
limited by the rest of the terms. In particular a section setting out the basis on which the 
premium has been calculated. That refers to United Kingdom to or from Rest of the World 
(other than Excluded Voyages, if any). I think that makes clear that the cover is limited to 
goods being transported to or from the UK. And its reasonable to say the schedule needs to 
be taken in its entirety rather than looking at individual sections in isolation. I think AJG has 
done enough to explain the basis on which it made its recommendation. 
I appreciate Mr W feels it should have asked further questions about how C was carrying out 
its business. However, I dont think there was anything to suggest there had been a 
significant change to Cs demands and needs. As a result I dont think there was anything 
that should have reasonably prompted AJG to carry out a further assessment of these. And 
if C had any concerns about the basis for AJGs recommendation it could have contacted it 
about this. Mr W has also raised concerns about the separate business assist policy C took out. He 
says this wasnt suitable for C because the policy it had with AJG was a marine policy and 
the business assist policy doesnt cover those claims. From what Ive seen the business 
assist policy doesnt appear to be insurance but something that provides enhanced help 
when a claim is made. As the sale appears to have been ancillary to that of a regulated 
insurance contract I think its something we can consider but I dont think the ICOBS rules 
would apply to this (as this wouldnt be a regulated sale). 
In any event the renewal letter makes clear no advice has been given in relation to the sale 
of the business assist policy. And I can see the documentation sets out what it does and 
doesnt cover. So if C didnt feel this met its needs it could have decided against taking it out. 
And it doesnt appear the claim C subsequently made was excluded from cover as the 
business assist policy did provide assistance with the handling of that.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman