DRN-3345449
The complaint
Mr A complains that it is impossible to contact The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) from
overseas, especially in the event of an emergency.
What happened
Mr A lives overseas and has his pension paid into his Co-op account, so he relies on their
internet banking to see that he has received his pension and to transfer funds out of his
account online.
Mr A says that he is unable to use Co-ops application on a non-United Kingdom (UK) mobile
telephone number or a computer abroad. He also says that Co-ops server for their web
pages and log in pages restrict certain Internet Protocol (IP) addresses  specifically
restricting access from dynamic IP addresses as opposed to static IP addresses. For Mr A to
use internet banking, he says he either had to use a free trial of a Virtual Private Network
(VPN) which has now expired, or he has to travel for several miles to use his friends 
modem, which uses a static IP address.
Mr A says that Co-ops online secure message system is only available if you are able to be
logged in (same as their live chat facility) and it restricts messages to 1,000 characters, it
wont accept certain characters, it wont allow you to paste from other programs, it wont
accept attachments and Co-op delete previous messages so they cant be read or accessed.
Co-op do not provide a telephone number specifically for overseas customers, Mr A has
said, as they only provide UK non-geographic telephone numbers, which are very expensive 
to call overseas. Mr A also says that there is no way that you can communicate with them 
via email, even in the event of an emergency. When he has tried to email their customer 
service department using the email that Co-op display on some of their communications, Mr 
A says he receives an undelivered message as he is not part of a group of authenticated 
users.
Mr A has made several suggestions to Co-op on how to improve these issues for overseas
customers and he made a complaint to Co-op about these issues. Co-op did not uphold Mr
As complaint.
Co-op said that their mobile application could only be used with a UK mobile number starting
with 07. They also said that their Information Technology (IT) department have confirmed
they do not block requests from outside of the UK and they have been unable to evidence
blocking his access.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator explained to Mr A that as we
arent the regulator, it isnt within our remit to tell a business what to do in relation to their
processes and system requirements.
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr A later told our investigator that
he had just been able to log into his account using his dynamic IP address, view his
transactions and managed to make a transfer. As he was now able to log in then he had
access to the secured messages service and live chat facilities. Mr A said he wanted to stop
Co-op sending emails from email addresses which dont accept replies and contain the
following wording in the emails:
This e-mail is intended solely for the addressee and is strictly confidential. If you are
not the intended addressee, please do not read, print, retransmit, store or act in reliance on it
or any attachments. Instead please notify us immediately, e-mail it back to the sender and
delete the message from your computer.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points to both Co-op and this service and Ive considered and
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
As our investigator has already explained, our service does not have the power to tell a
business how to manage their processes, such as how they interact with their overseas
customers. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have
the power to instruct Co-op to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary.
So Mr A may wish to contact them if he remains unhappy with the policies Co-op have in
place.
Im glad to see that Mr A has access to his internet banking now. So Im not persuaded that
Co-op have restricted access to his IP address. Co-op have previously said that Mr As
modem may not be compatible, and this may have caused issues, but I think this is unlikely
now that Mr A has access to his internet banking and he says hes using the same modem
as when he wasnt able to use their website. It may be there were some settings or updates
on his computer which temporarily werent compatible with Co-ops website, however, Im
unable to ascertain either way how Mr A was unable to use Co-ops website previously.
Now that Mr A has access to his internet banking, this should help him use the live chat
facility or the secured messaging facility in the future and in the event of an emergency, even
if Mr A feels there are limitations to these services.
As I previously mentioned, while I cant ask Co-op to change any of their policies, I took the
opportunity to ask them underlying questions which Mr A had. I asked Co-op if they had an
international telephone number which would be more cost effective than the telephone
numbers they advertise on their website. Co-op confirmed that while unfortunately they dont
offer such a number, there may be websites or applications available that provide an
alternative number for overseas customers to call. They said as this isnt a service they offer,
they dont advise of this as its outside of their control. So Mr A may wish to explore this in
more detail, however, Im unable to provide any more information on this.
I also asked Co-op if they had email support for international customers. Co-op explained
that they didnt, due to them being unable to action any changes on a customers account
through this method of communication, as they dont deem it to be a secure enough channel.
As Mr A now has access to his internet banking then Im persuaded that the live chat facility
may be a quicker alternative method of contacting Co-op regardless of if they did offer email
support or not.
I asked Co-op about them displaying emails containing the email address that Mr A said didnot accept emails from him. Co-op said that they need to send certain emails to their
customers, due to them having an obligation to send certain information. And they explained
that Mr A would be able to opt out of marketing emails if he wanted to. So it follows I dont
intend to ask Co-op to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Co-op responded to my provisional decision and said they wanted to note that they 
don't offer a live chat facility and haven't done so for over 12 months now. Mr A responded 
and said that whilst expressing his overall disappointment with the decision he was thankful 
for the involvement of our service as he believed he would still be having issues if he never 
contacted us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any new further information to consider, then my 
final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman