DRN-4517183
The complaint
Mrs B complains that UAB ZEN.COM didnt do enough to protect her from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam, or to help her recover the money once shed reported the 
scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs B came across an investment opportunity while she was on social media. She 
registered her interest and was contacted by someone Ill refer to as the scammer who said 
they were a broker working for a company Ill refer to as C. The scammer said he could 
help Mrs B to invest in forex and commodities and that she could earn 40% per year on her 
investment.
Mrs B was impressed because the scammer seemed knowledgeable and professional and 
was able to answer all her queries. He told her C was registered in the UK, regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and registered on Companies House.
The scammer told Mrs B to download AnyDesk remote access software to her device to 
facilitate the onboarding and to open an account with Zen so she could make international 
payments. He also gave her login details to enable her to open an account with C and told 
her to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange company which she could see was 
a legitimate platform.
The scammer told Mrs B to first purchase cryptocurrency from individuals through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. 
On 27 March 2023, she received a transfer into the account for $11,934 and on 28 March 
2023, she made two transfers to international accounts for $10,990 and $928. Both 
payments made with no intervention from Zen.
Mrs B could see the deposits shed made on the online platform and she could see live 
trades and returns on her investments on the trading platform. But she realised shed been 
scammed on 9 June 2023 when she was told she would have to pay fees to make a 
withdrawal and she realised that C was a clone of a legitimate company.
Mrs B complained to Zen but it refused to refund any of the money shed lost. It said the 
funds were used to buy cryptocurrency at a separate third-party platform so it couldnt have 
known she was buying cryptocurrency.
Mrs B complained to this service with the assistance of a representative who explained the 
Zen account was opened as part of the scam, so there was no transaction history to 
compare the payments with. They said Mrs B had deposited funds into the account before 
paying it out to a cryptocurrency exchange, which should have indicated she was being 
scammed. 
They said Zen should have identified the payments as suspicious and intervened to ask 
probing questions, in response to which Mrs B would have told it shed discovered the 
opportunity on social media and that she was told by a broker to use AnyDesk. With this 
information, Zen would have recognised that she was being scammed and that the 
investment company was impersonating a legitimate firm and wasnt registered to trade in 
the UK.
In further submissions to the service, Zen said it blocked a payment into the account 
because it was for a large amount. It asked Mrs B about the purpose of the transfer and she 
said it was for daily expenses and didnt mention investments.
Our investigator has recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He explained the 
payments couldnt be recovered as they were for legitimate P2P cryptocurrency purchases 
and Mrs B had received the cryptocurrency she paid for. He noted Zen carried out some 
enquiries with the beneficiaries and he didnt think it could have done anything more to 
recover the funds because she had received the cryptocurrency she paid for. He also 
explained the payments werent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code because Mrs B received the cryptocurrency, Zen isnt signed up to the Code 
and the payments were to accounts outside of the UK.
However, he thought the payment of $10,990 Mrs B made on 28 March 2023 ought to have 
flagged as unusual because it was a large amount of money for a first-time transaction and 
was made a day after Mrs B had transferred funds into her account. 
He explained that Zen should have blocked the payment, and questioned Mrs B about the 
payment to satisfy itself that she wasnt being scammed. He said there was no evidence she 
had been coached to lie so she would have told it that she was being assisted by a broker 
who had told her to download AnyDesk and to open the Zen account. She should then have 
been given a tailored scam warning, which he thought would have stopped her from going 
ahead with the payment.
However, he didnt think Mrs B had done enough to mitigate her loss because she went 
ahead with the investment having only looked at Cs website. He said the scammer had sent 
her a link to the FCA website and if shed checked the register, she would have realised it 
wasnt authorised to provide financial services in the UK. So, he thought the settlement 
should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
Mrs B has indicated that shed happy to accept our investigators view, but Zen has asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It maintains the transactions from Mrs 
Bs Zen account werent scam payments as she received the cryptocurrency she paid for.
It accepts she was the victim of an investment scam but as she wasnt paying a 
cryptocurrency exchange it had no indication that she was paying P2P traders. It said it had 
stopped an incoming transaction to ascertain the source of funds and when it asked her the 
purpose of the funds, she confirmed it was for day to day usage. This concealed her 
intention to use the funds for an investment and it doesnt accept she would have told it 
about Cs involvement if it had contacted her when she made the disputed transaction.
Finally, it has argued that Mrs B didnt do enough to check C was a genuine company as she 
should have contacted it directly or looked at the website, because the genuine company 
had warnings which might have alerted her to the fact she was being scammed. She 
invested a large sum of money without seeking independent advice and she should have 
been concerned that shed found in opportunity on social media and that she was being 
promised returns that were above average.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mrs B says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
Mrs B was paying an international account, she received the cryptocurrency she paid for and 
Zen isnt signed up to the code.
Im satisfied Mrs B authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mrs B didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Zen is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Zen is an Electronic Money Institution (EMI) and at the time the payment took place it 
wasnt subject to all of the same rules, regulations and best practice that applied to banks 
and building societies. But it was subject to the FCAs Principles for Businesses and BCOBS 
2 and owed a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far 
as reasonably possible.
Ive thought about whether Zen could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency sellers. However, Zen ought to fairly and 
reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mrs B when she tried to make 
the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Zen to 
intervene with a view to protecting Mrs B from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Zens systems. Because this was a newly opened 
account, there was no historic spending to compare the payments with. And its right that 
because Mrs B was making P2P cryptocurrency purchases, so Zen wouldnt have known 
she was buying cryptocurrency. However, Mrs B had received a large payment into the 
account followed by a very large transfer out of the account the following day and because 
this was the very first payment out of the account, I agree with our investigator that Zen 
should have contacted her to ask some questions about the purpose of the payment.
Zen has argued that it contacted Mrs B when she had received a payment into the account 
and that she told it the funds were for day to day usage. But it has stated that this occurred 
on 15 May 2023, so I dont think the interaction is relevant to the issue of whether shed have 
been honest with it if it had contacted her to ask her about the payment on 28 March 2023. 
And in any even I dont accept that Mrs B responses to questions around payments into her account are necessarily indicative of how she would respond to questions about payments 
out of the account.
Because of this, I think its more likely than not that if she was asked questions about the 
payments, shed have said she was buying cryptocurrency on the advice of a broker shed 
found on social media. I think shed have also told it the broker had told her to open the Zen 
account and to download AnyDesk to her device.
With this information, Zen would have been able to identify that she was being scammed 
and it could have told her there were red flags present that the investment was probably a 
scam. It would have also told her how to check the investment was genuine including how to 
check the FCA register.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs B was keen to take risks and so Im satisfied shed 
have listened to Zens advice and decided not to go ahead with the payment. Because of 
this Im satisfied that it missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances which might 
have prevented her loss and so it should refund the money she lost.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence. While I accept this was a sophisticated scam, Im satisfied 
Mrs B was made aware of the existence of the FCA and that she failed to conduct checks 
that might have uncovered the scam sooner, including checking Cs website, which included 
warnings that it was being used in scam involving cryptocurrency.
Because of this, I agree with our investigator that the settlement should be reduced by 50% 
for contributory negligence.
My final decision
My final decision is that UAB ZEN.COM should: 
refund the money Mrs B has lost.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If UAB ZEN.COM deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mrs B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman