DRN-2981538
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service and information he received from the Co-operative Bank 
Plc (Smile) surrounding a transfer of money from overseas to the UK.
What happened
Mr M wanted to transfer some money from overseas to the UK. He contacted Smile and 
received conflicting information about whether an intermediary bank was needed or not. 
When Mr M later undertook the transfer, an intermediary bank was used which took a fee for 
their services, meaning that Mr M received approximately £1,350 less than he was 
expecting. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Smile looked at Mr Ms complaint. But they felt that theyd explained to Mr M that an 
intermediary bank wasnt required by them but had given Mr M details of an intermediary 
bank if one was required by the sending bank. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Smile, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Smile had 
explained to Mr M that no intermediary bank was required by them, so they also didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mr M to have received less from the 
transfer than he was expecting, and to then realise that the reason for this was that an 
intermediary bank had been used when the use of intermediary bank hadnt been necessary.
Mr M has stated that he was initially told by Smile that the use of an intermediary bank would 
be required, but that this was done on a communication channel which Smile no longer use 
or maintain record of and so cannot be verified.
I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration in this regard, but I dont feel that the absence of this 
information has any significant impact in this instance, and I say this because there is record 
of the communication between Mr M and Smile in the days leading up to the transfer.
This includes Smile telling Mr M that an intermediary bank wasnt required, which prompted 
Mr M to query this information on the basis that hed previously been told that an 
intermediary bank would be required. 
In response, Smile apologised to Mr M for any confusion and explained that US banks often 
use an intermediary bank. In this same message, Smile provided details of their US 
correspondent bank which could be used as an intermediary bank if required.
Mr M replied to this message and expressed his confusion as to whether an intermediary 
bank was required or not. Smile quickly responded and apologised for any confusion caused 
and explained that if the sending bank require an intermediary bank then the correspondent 
bank details which theyve previously provided can be used. Mr M then went on to instruct 
the transfer.
While I can understand how Mr M might have been confused by the information he was 
receiving from Smile, and how he might feel aggrieved that an intermediary bank was used 
for the transfer which resulted in him receiving less money than he was expecting to receive, 
I dont feel that I can fairly conclude that Smile have acted unfairly here such that they 
should be instructed to reimburse Mr M in the manner that he would like.
I say this because the last message that Smile sent to Mr M before the transfer was made 
clearly stated that an intermediary bank would only be needed to be used if the receiving 
bank required the use of one.
Mr M contends that he was explicitly told by Smile that an intermediary bank was needed, 
but the message chain that Ive reviewed doesnt support Mr Ms position on this matter. And 
while it may have been the case that Mr M was told during an earlier conversation with Smile 
that an intermediary bank might be required, Im satisfied that this information was 
superseded by the later communication to which Ive referred, and which, as explained 
above, confirms that Smile advised Mr M that an intermediary bank wasnt a requirement of 
theirs and would only be needed if the sending bank insisted upon it.
This means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Smile have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Smile to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman