DRN-4003577
Complaint
Mr G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
In 2016, Mr G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr G decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 3-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mr Gs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. 
The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had 
turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr G to enter 
into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system was sold on the basis that it would pay for itself within 8 years.
Mr G was told that he would receive Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments for 25 years. 
The savings in relation to the voltage optimisers have been overestimated.
The self-consumption rate of 75% is unreasonably high.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr G or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling.
 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator thought that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr G and decided to uphold the complaint.  
Shawbrook didnt agree so, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 17 February 2023, I set out why I was not minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook didnt make any further comments. The CMC 
and Mr G didnt agree for the following reasons. 
Mr G pointed out that the voltage optimizer wasnt actually fitted.
He has also added that the system is no longer working, and he thought any repairs 
would be free, but he has since been told there would be a charge for this. 
The CMC felt that there was a huge difference between what they believe happened 
during the sale and that claimed by Shawbrook about its sales process.
The CMC is also unhappy that my provisional findings are so different to that of our 
investigator. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr G could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr G says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would pay for itself in 8 
years. Although the documents suggest the system wont pay for itself until year 13, Mr G 
says he was told this was simply a technicality and the system would pay for itself in 8 years, 
and he bought the system on that basis. 
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
Im satisfied that Mr G was told that the cost of the system was £5,200. The total amount of 
credit is £5,100 (after deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total 
amount payable would be £5,199.76. Mr G appears to have taken out an interest free loan to 
purchase the system.  
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £141.67. But Mr Gs 
monthly payment is marginally different at £141.66  but I dont think this difference makes 
the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
the costs were made clear to Mr G and that he was told that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due. 
Pay for itself in 8 years
Mr G says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would pay for itself in 8 
years. Although the documents suggest the system wont pay for itself until year 13, Mr G 
says he was told this was simply a technicality and the system would pay for itself in 8 years. 
He also adds that he was told he would receive FIT payments for 25 years in total. 
This statement is included in the quote and it is widely known that FIT payments are only 
paid for 20 years. I dont think its likely that P would have asserted that FIT payments would 
be paid for an additional 5 years when the documents highlight in red that its only paid for 20 
years. The quote also sets out the full 20-year average. That piece of information is also 
widely available for consumers to locate independently. Given how easily it could have been 
challenged  I dont think its likely that P intentionally misled Mr G into believing he would 
get FIT payments for longer than the maximum period of 20 years. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr G could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr G could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £87.29, which results in an average monthly income of £7.27. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr G could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £150.47 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr G, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £306.88. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
Ive seen another quote for Mr G that sets out different repayment options for Mr G, but the 
benefits listed above, are the same on each quote. So, to me it looks like Mr G was given a 
detailed breakdown of the likely income and savings he would receive from the system  
initially as well as over the expected lifetime of the system.  
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr G could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that the sales quotation document is reliable evidence of the likely information 
Mr G was given at the time if sale. Indeed hes accepted the documents suggest the system 
will pay for itself in 13 years but says he was told this was a technicality. This suggests he 
was aware that the estimates indicated it wouldnt be until year 13 that the benefits he would 
receive would outweigh the cost. But he says he bought the system believing it would pay for 
itself in 8 years. 
However, nothing Ive seen mentions a payback year of 8 years. The quote explicitly 
mentions a payback year of 13 years.  
The benefits at year 8 are only around £3,000, which is significantly less that what Mr G paid 
for the system. Mr G wasnt given a ballpark figure of how the system might perform, but he 
was given a detailed, calculated breakdown of how a system this size would likely perform. I 
think if P had told Mr G that the system would outperform its estimates by over £2,000 by 
year 8, I would have expected him to have questioned how that would likely be achieved. 
£2,000 is not an insignificant amount that can be explained away by small variances in 
estimates. As Ive explained above, I also dont think its likely that P told him hed receive 
FIT payments for 25 years, when the document clearly highlights that hed only receive FIT 
payments for 20 years. 
While Ive thought carefully about Mr Gs testimony, I find the documents from the time of 
sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation of this nature that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
How the estimates were calculated 
Im satisfied that Mr G was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain 
duration of time. But as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr G that the system 
would pay for itself by year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the 
quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The MCS certificate sets out what the system is expected to produce in kWh a year and I 
understand the solar panel system may not be performing in line with the estimates made. 
Currently, there is no explanation as to why the energy generated is not in line with the 
estimates. Mr Gs original section 75 claim was that he was told the financial benefits 
received in 8 years was going to cover the cost of the system and that the system had 
therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So Shawbrook only had to deal with that 
complaint. Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system 
was generating as much energy as P had estimated. This matter has only recently been 
raised with Shawbrook and will be dealt with separately by Shawbrook  so I have not 
looked at it as part of this case. 
I have only considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the 
financial returns Mr G was likely to receive from the system, independently of the systems 
failure to generate as much energy as estimated.
self-consumption rate
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr G could use himself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how they used electricity. 
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings, especially in light of Mr Gs specific circumstances. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the self-consumption rate based on the 
information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the 
self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this instance. Im aware that P has 
used lower self-consumption rates on other quotes that I have seen  which reinforces its 
claim that it was tailoring it to each customer.
Voltage optimiser 
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were inaccurate and mis-
leading. However, I understand that Ps method of calculating the savings was approved by 
an industry body, which is more qualified than I am to know if it was reasonable. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than those 
stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mr Gs home and how he used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. 
Assumptions 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr G couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr G entered into the contract.
Overall, I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I 
dont think it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has 
not matched Ps assumption. So while the financial returns may have been lower than 
estimated, I dont think that amounts to a misrepresentation.  
Other issues As explained above, the concerns around the system not generating as much energy as 
quoted was not raised in Mr Gs letter of claim so I have not looked at it as part of this 
complaint. This service is only able to look into matters after it has been raised with the 
financial business first and its been given an opportunity to resolve the matter. If Shawbrook 
is unable to resolve this issue, Mr G can refer this to us as part of a separate complaint.
I can also see that Mr G has informed us that a different installer has inspected the system 
and advised Mr G that P may have installed an incorrect inverter. Again this was not raised 
as part of Mr Gs original claim, so he will have to raise this separately with Shawbrook  but 
to confirm I have not considered it as part of this complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr G to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint. 
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly for not accepting 
the claim.
If Mr G wishes to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in complaint 
handling (if he hasnt done so already), he should contact Shawbrook directly.
Further considerations 
Firstly, Id like to reiterate that I am unable to investigate and decide matters and new issues 
that have not previously been raised with Shawbrook. While the CMC has raised concerns 
over how the benefits associated with the voltage optimisers are estimated by P, at no point 
has any concerns been raised about one not being installed. If Mr G has any concerns over 
a voltage optimiser not being installed, hed have to raise that with Shawbrook in the first 
instance. His concerns over the system not working and repairs being chargeable  again 
needs to be raised with Shawbrook in the first instance. To confirm, I havent looked at these 
matters as part of this complaint. 
I appreciate the CMC and Mr G dont believe the P followed its sales process and re-iterate 
the system was misrepresented to Mr G. But as explained in my provisional decision (and 
quoted above) the figures presented on the sales documents do not reflect that Mr G was 
led to believe the system would be self-funding in the way Mr G says it was. And from what 
we understand about Ps sales processes, the quotes usually guided the discussions during 
the sale. While I appreciate both the CMCs and Mr Gs strength of feeling regarding this 
matter, and have thought carefully about Mr Gs testimony, Im afraid I find the documentary 
evidence to be more persuasive. 
I would add that I appreciate our investigator took a different view of the complaint and 
understand my findings are likely to be disappointing for Mr G. But I have to decide what I 
think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. I am nonetheless sorry 
for the disappointment caused in this case. 
In the absence of any further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. Having carefully re-considered the 
evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im still satisfied that there were no untrue 
statements of fact made by P that induced Mr G to enter into the contract for the system, and 
I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that 
Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly for not accepting the claim.If Mr G wishes to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in complaint 
handling (if he hasnt done so already), he should contact Shawbrook directly.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman