DRN-2236801
The complaint
Mr Bs complains is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) mismanaged the end of his conditional sale agreement. He complains this 
had a negative impact on his credit file and meant he couldnt enter new credit agreements, 
leaving him without a car, and resulted in a reduction in his credit card limit.
 
What happened
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with BPF in October 2015 to acquire a car. 
The agreement had a term of 49 months. Mr B says that around three months before the 
end of the agreement he told BPF he wished to return the car at the end of the agreement. 
However, he says he didnt hear from BPF until he was contacted by a recovery agent in 
November 2019 wanting to collect the car the next day. Mr B says this wasnt possible and 
so a collection date of 9 December 2019 was arranged. 
Mr B says that although the collection of the car had been arranged, BPF took the balloon 
payment from his account at end November. He contacted BPF and this payment was 
reversed. However, after this the payment was taken again and had to be reversed. The car 
was collected but Mr B then received a notification on 25 December 2019, saying his credit 
score had fallen. He checked his credit file and found a default amount equal to the balloon 
payment had been recorded. Mr B says he had to make several calls to BPF and was given 
different information each time. He says he found this very stressful and that as the impact 
on his credit file was significant it meant he couldnt enter any new credit agreement at this 
time, meaning he was without a car over the Christmas period. 
Mr B says that although his credit file was amended this took time meaning his credit score 
was affected for around three months. He also noted a lasting impact as he said his credit 
card limit was reduced.
BPF says that in July 2019 it sent Mr B a letter setting out his options for the end of the 
agreement. It says that Mr B then queried his options and on 7 November it received 
confirmation he wished to follow the end of term process. On 20 November it says it was 
made aware that Mr B wished to return the car but that the car had experienced engine 
issues. A delay of collection was agreed to allow for repairs and the car was agreed to be 
collected on 9 December 2019.
On 27 December 2019, BPF says Mr B contacted it raising concerns that two attempts were 
made to take the balloon payment and that this had meant he was unable to access credit 
for a new car. BPF says that Mr Bs complaint was investigated, and he was offered £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. Mr B didnt accept this offer.
Our investigator thought that BPFs offer of £500 compensation was fair. He said that BPF 
had amended Mr Bs credit file and while noting the upset Mr B had been caused he felt the 
offer of £500 compensation was reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that if the calls with BPF were listened 
to it would be clear the stress these caused him. He said the issue affected his mental health 
resulting in him needing counselling. He said his life was put on hold for three months as he 
couldnt apply for any credit including a phone contract as his credit score had been reduced 
substantially. He didnt accept that £500 compensation was enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision addresses Mr Bs complaint about the payments taken at the end of his 
agreement and the information recorded on his credit file at that time. Having considered this 
complaint, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Mr B was sent details about the options available to him at the end of his agreement. 
Although he told BPF that he intended to return the car, BPF still attempted to take 
the final balloon payment. Adverse information about the balloon payment was then 
recorded on his credit file resulting in a fall in his credit score. I can understand the 
upset this will have caused.
Our role isnt to punish a business but where mistakes are made we would expect 
the consumer to be put back in the position they would have been had the mistakes 
not happened and, where appropriate, to award compensation. In this case, the 
balloon payments taken in November 2019 were reversed. BPF accepted that 
mistakes were made and in March 2020, it said that any adverse information would 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file. This happened and so Mr B was put back in the 
position he would have been had this information not been recorded. 
As Mr B has been put back in the position he would have been had the mistakes not 
been made, I then have to consider what, if any compensation is reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr B was caused distress and inconvenience due to the mistakes made by BPF and 
so I agree that compensation should be paid. BPF offered to pay Mr B £500. I 
understand Mr B doesnt think this is enough. I have looked through the timeline of 
events and listened to the calls that I have been provided with from December 2019. 
Some of the calls relate to another issue about a tracker on the car. However, Mr B 
makes more than one call regarding the issue with his credit file. He was put on hold 
while trying to be connected to the complaints department and while I can hear it is 
explained to him the timescales involved, Mr B is clearly distressed by the situation 
and notes he needs immediate action due to needing to collect another car. 
Mr B has said that as the issue took around three months to resolve he wasnt able to 
enter other credit agreements. I understand he was without a car over the Christmas 
period and I can understand why he wouldnt want to enter other new credit 
arrangements when his credit file had this adverse information recorded. I have 
factored this into my decision.
While I understand the upset Mr B was caused, I have nothing to suggest he was 
caused any financial loss. I note the comment about the reduction in the limit on his 
credit card, but I cannot say this caused him a loss and once his credit file was 
amended he could contact the card provider to inform it of this, Therefore I find that compensation is only required for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused.
I appreciate Mr Bs comment about the impact this issue had on his mental health, 
but I do not find I can require BPF to cover the costs of any counselling. I do think 
that a payment for the distress and inconvenience the issues have caused should be 
made. I appreciate that Mr B doesnt think that £500 is enough but in this case, 
having looked through all the information provided, I find this reasonable.
Overall, I accept that this issue has caused Mr B stress and inconvenience. However, having 
considered the actions already taken to put Mr B back into the position he would have been 
had the issues not arisen, and noting the other evidence in this complaint, I find the offer of 
£500 compensation is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should pay Mr B £500 compensation, as it has offered, in resolution of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman