DRN-2262315
The complaint
This complaint is about four regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in 1999, 2000, 2002 and 2004. Mrs G and Mr G said Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G complained to this Service. The PPI was taken out in connection with four 
further advances added to an original joint mortgage over a five year period.
Mrs G and Mr G said they did not know they had any PPI at all; they said Lloyds Bank did 
not tell them anything about PPI or that it was an optional product. They said they didnt 
need PPI, so they conclude all of the policies they bought over the five year period were all 
mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed with 
out adjudicators view, so they asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs and Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold. I say this because:
Although Mrs G and Mr G have specifically said they did not know they had any PPI at 
all and they didnt know PPI was optional, I think Lloyds Bank probably made it clear 
enough in each sale that Mrs G and Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and yet they 
chose to take out each policy. Due to the passage of time, I can understand why they 
cant remember this. The paperwork for the policies sold in 1999 and 2000 suggested 
they had a choice which they exercised  including amending the PPI policy in 2000 to 
suit their needs. And in respect of the policies sold in 2002 and 2004, they had to sign 
separately for the policy  so I think signing the separate forms indicated their knowledge 
and consent to add the PPI to their mortgage account.
Lloyds Bank recommended all the PPI policies to Mrs G and Mr G, so it had to check 
that the PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time, I think the policies were suitable. For example they were not affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, they seemed to have had a need for the 
cover and the policies appear to have been affordable.  
Its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mrs G and Mr G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But as they chose to take it out - it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. So I dont think better information about PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
Mrs G and Mr G worked with the same respective employers during the five year 
period Im looking at - 1999 to 2004. They told us their employers would have paid them 
a full salary for six months as sick pay. They also had some savings. However, the PPI 
could have lasted for longer than and in addition to their sick pay, leaving their savings 
for other expenses. So I dont think their employee benefits and savings made the 
policies unsuitable.
Mrs G and Mr G said they could rely on their families to make their mortgage 
repayments. I do understand the point they are making. However, there was no 
guarantee they could still rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I 
dont think this potential support made the policies unsuitable.   
Ive thought about everything Mrs G and Mr G have said - including what they have said 
about their employee benefits, savings and family support. But these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds Bank needs to give Mrs G and Mr G some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Gs and Mr 
Gs mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008, the Court ruling, rules and 
guidance dont apply. So Lloyds Bank doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs G 
and Mr G paid for the PPI policies they had with that mortgage and the further advances.
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman