DRN-2107513
complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought the policy at the end of 1998 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. The 
mortgage started at the beginning of 1999. She applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in 
branch. 
The policy provided cover for Mrs L for [accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £250 a month towards Mrs Ls mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £12.65 a month. 
At the time, Mrs L was employed as a nurse. She has told us she was entitled to six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work.   
Mrs L didnt have any other financial means, such as savings, of repaying her mortgage 
should she be unable to work. Mrs L was entitled to redundancy pay if she lost her job. Mrs L 
told us of a medical condition she suffered from some time before the policy was taken. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006.
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ls representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Halifax should have 
told Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs L and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2006. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the InternetThe Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ls case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Banking 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If Halifax gave advice, whether it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Halifax gave Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mrs L has said the policy was 
included as part of the mortgage package and that it was mis-sold to her. 
Halifax has been able to give us the documents from the time of the sale. These include the 
General Enquiry/Application for Mortgage form which has been completed by hand. It 
includes details of Mrs Ls circumstances such as her employment and mortgage 
requirements. I see there is a separate section entitled Accident, sickness and 
unemployment insurance followed by a brief description of the policy. There are two boxes  
one to take the policy and the other to reject it. I see that the box has been ticked to say 
Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance and Mrs L has 
signed this section, separate from the mortgage application itself. If Mrs L hadnt wanted to 
take the policy, she could have ticked the No box. 
Halifax has also given us a copy of the Mortgage repayments Insurance Application form. 
This again has been completed by hand and signed and dated by Mrs L. It gives details of 
the monthly benefit required and there are some yes/no boxes about Mrs Ls circumstances 
regarding her eligibility for the policy. 
Clearly, I cant know what was discussed at the meeting Mrs L had with Halifaxs 
representative but the documents Ive seen suggest that the policy was optional and there is 
nothing on them to say that Mrs L had to have the policy. If Mrs L hadnt wanted the PPI, I 
wouldnt have expected her to have completed this form. I know Mrs L feels strongly about 
this, but I have to rely upon the evidence I do have and what I consider more likely to have 
happened at the time of the sale. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs L knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs L hasnt given us her recollection of whether advice was given during the sale. But 
Halifax says it did give advice and as this was an in branch sale, I think this is most likely 
what happened. 
This means Halifax had to advise Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests 
that Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs L. The adviser had information about some of Mrs Ls financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage application. But although some questions were asked to try and establish 
whether Mrs L had a need for the policy  by asking questions about her wider 
circumstances such as any health issues and existing means  I dont think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. I cant see that any questions were asked about any other 
financial means she could have relied upon to make the mortgage repayments for example. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs L given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:- Mrs L met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mrs L had a need for the policy  Mrs L was the sole wage earner and it seems likely 
Mrs Ls finances would be put under strain if she were not working  even allowing 
for the sickness and redundancy benefits she was entitled to. The policy would have 
helped Mrs L manage the consequences were Mrs L unable to work.
-Although Mrs L says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs L. There was 
nothing about Mrs Ls employment or occupation which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim. Regarding the pre-existing medical condition Mrs L has told us about 
I note this was suffered in her childhood and for which she was given medication at 
the time. And Mrs L told us she hadnt had any ongoing problems for 40 years at the 
time of the sale. 
- While the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment  it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ls 
circumstances.
- While the policy included a requirement that Mrs L be disabled or unemployed for 30 
days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 
12 months for each claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mrs Ls 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her 
home (for which she was solely responsible) and the potential consequences should 
Mrs L be unable to make the repayments on loans secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, Halifax gave Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs L was 
unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs L would have taken out the 
policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mrs L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs L all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Ls representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent did Mrs L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs L. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mrs L would have 
still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Mrs L, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things properly, 
Mrs L would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs L says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what she thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mrs Ls circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs L knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told her the exact premium at the point Mrs L applied 
for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mrs L would have been told the cost before 
the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were 
significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its possible she might have 
raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs L would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Halifax made clear exactly what Mrs L would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ls expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her 
mortgage payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition or injury 
which Mrs L knew about or should have known about or for which she received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date and which recurred within 24 months of the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs L was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs L wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs L was in permanent employment. And as I have said above, the pre-existing medical condition Mrs L told us 
about hadnt recurred for 40 years. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mrs L might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs L 
from taking out the policy, Mrs L, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would have done. And I 
accept it may have given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs L was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in 
all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have told Mrs L that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs L would have received full sick pay for, and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences should Mrs L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Ls sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that 
would help her manage the consequences if Mrs L was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs L 
would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should pay Mrs L compensation, as that would put her in 
a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall information Halifax gave Mrs L, in the way it 
did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs L and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman