DRN-3364581
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has declined to change an account from his 
late wifes name to the name of a charity.
Mr F brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of his late wife, Mrs F.
What happened
Mrs F held an account with Lloyds that was for the benefit of a charity Ill call S. The account 
had originally been in the name of S, but had changed to Mrs Fs name in 2016. Mrs F 
previously brought a complaint to our service about the events in 2016 and our service has 
dealt with those matters at the time.
In 2021, when Mrs F sadly passed away, Mr F approached Lloyds to ask if it would transfer 
the account to Ss name. Lloyds said that wasnt possible, but that Mr F could complete the 
process to have the funds released from Mrs Fs account, then open a new account in the 
name of S.
Mr F didnt want to open a new account as many of the existing donors had standing orders 
setup to donate to Ss account, and he was concerned the charity would lose out on income 
if the account changed. Lloyds wasnt able to comply with Mr Fs request, so it issued its final 
response to his complaint on 4 January 2022 and said Mr F could bring his complaint to our 
service if he remained unhappy.
Our investigator looked at Mr Fs complaint, but couldnt uphold it. She said the account 
couldnt remain open as its owner, Mrs F, was sadly no longer with us. And she thought 
Lloyds had acted fairly in advising Mr F to complete the account closure process and open a 
new account in Ss name. She recognised Mr Fs disappointment but couldnt uphold his 
complaint because she didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr F felt our investigators outcome was unfair, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh. He said the bank had made an error in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because our service has already answered the complaint raised about the events in 2016, I 
cant look at those events again in this decision. So, I will only comment on Mr Fs complaint 
that Lloyds wont change the account in question from Mrs Fs name to Ss name.
Lloyds has explained that Mrs Fs account will have to be closed, with the funds being 
released to Mr F. And that Mr F can then apply for a new account in Ss name. I understand 
Mr Fs point that some of the donors may choose not to renew their standing orders if this 
happens, so I understand why Mr F is unhappy. The charity is a worthy cause and one Mr F 
clearly cares a great deal about.
However, I cant reasonably tell Lloyds to do something different if I dont think it has treated 
Mr F unfairly, or done anything wrong. And Im sorry to say that Im not satisfied Lloyds has 
done something wrong here. Lloyds process in dealing with accounts of deceased 
customers is to release funds to the authorised person, and close the account. Lloyds has 
said it isnt able to change the account to Ss name, but it has offered to help Mr F open a 
new charity account.
Because Lloyds is following the correct process, I cant reasonably force it to create a new 
process or deviate from its standard operating practices. Our service can make 
compensation awards or tell business to take actions to correct mistakes, but we cant 
reasonably tell banks how to run their business. And ultimately, if I were to tell Lloyds to 
change the name on the account, I would be interfering with its procedures and practices, 
which wouldnt be appropriate.
Im truly sorry for Mr Fs loss, and I hope he is able to continue his wifes admirable work with 
regard to S. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, and with some regret, Im sorry to say 
that I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Jessica Dawood
Ombudsman