DRN-4174496
The complaint
Ms B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank recorded a default 
against her credit card account when she thinks they shouldnt have.
What happened
In 2018 Ms B had some difficulties with her property, and she had to move out. As a result of 
this, she started incurring a lot of expenses, and used her credit card to pay for some of 
these. Ms B was struggling financially, so contacted a debt charity, who suggested she 
speak to Tesco to try and come to a payment arrangement. She got in touch with Tesco and 
agreed a repayment plan.
Ms B is now looking to get a mortgage, and discovered a default was registered by Tesco in 
September 2018. Ms B wants the default to be removed. 
Tesco said they received a letter from Ms B on 16 August 2018 proposing a reduced 
payment plan of £22.68 per month for the next six months. They said a letter was sent to 
Ms Bs address on 21 August 2018 explaining because of the long-term nature of the plan 
theyre required to terminate her account. This meant a default would be applied, but also 
meant no further interest, fees or charges would be applied. 
Ms Bs account was then managed by their recoveries team, but payments werent received 
every month, and some payments received were for less than the agreed amount. Tesco 
said after 5 January 2022 Ms B stopped making payments, so they sold her account to a 
debt purchaser in January 2023. Overall, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this Ms B asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
thought Tesco had acted fairly.
Ms B didnt agree, saying she only stopped making payments when the account was sold, 
the timeframe of the agreement wasnt specified so shes not sure how it can be classed as 
long term, and Tesco were very aware of the stress she was under. 
Our Investigator sent Ms B a copy of the letter dated 21 August 2018 which confirmed the 
plan was for six months. Ms B said it wasnt fair the default was applied only a few weeks 
after the plan was put in place, and ultimately didnt agree with our Investigator, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I can only require Tesco to remove the default if Im satisfied 
theyve made the error leading to the default being recorded. If I dont think they have, then I 
wont be telling them to remove it.
Ms B has explained her very difficult financial circumstances at the time in 2018. Im 
genuinely very sorry to hear about what was happening for her, as it sounds extremely 
challenging.
Ms B contacted Tesco asking to make reduced payments for six months. This was 
responded to by Tesco in a letter dated 21 August 2018. This letter confirms acceptance of 
the plan Ms B put forward, and also says theyd be issuing her with a Default Notice letter 
and Termination Notice letter. In a separate heading titled Default and Termination Tesco 
added As we will be defaulting and terminating your accountwe will report your account to 
the credit reference agencies as a default.
Our Investigator sent Ms B a copy of this letter, and she didnt say she didnt receive it  so 
Ive no reason to say Ms B wasnt made aware of the default being applied to her account.
A further three letters were then sent:
29 August 2018  a Default Notice letter explaining unless Ms B made payment of 
the arrears then theyd be reporting her account to the credit reference agencies. And 
they explained the default would remain for six years.
26 September 2018  a Notice of Sum in Arrears letter explaining Ms B was behind 
on her repayments.
27 September 2018  a Termination Notice saying theyve recently sent her a Default 
Notice but hadnt received the payment due.
All four letters included contact numbers for Tesco.
Overall then, I think Tesco did enough to make Ms B aware theyd be reporting a default, 
and she had an opportunity to query this with them if she didnt agree. Based on her 
testimony of not knowing theyd recorded a default, it seems she didnt contact them.
So, I cant legitimately say theyve done anything wrong in recording a default. 
Its possible Tesco have reported the default earlier than they needed to. But, at the same 
time, if I require them to change the date of the default itd only be to require Tesco to record 
the default later meaning itd be on Ms Bs credit file for longer. As things stand, the default is 
due to drop off in September 2024. As Tesco are satisfied with the date theyve recorded the 
default Ive seen no reason to require them to change it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman