DRN-3084437
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the fees being charged by Sanderson Drake Limited (Sanderson), 
after it represented him with regards to an irresponsible lending claim. 
What happened
Mr W wanted to raise claims about some loans he had been provided with. He felt the 
lenders who gave these loans shouldnt have offered them to him. And so, in December 
2019, he visited Sandersons website, and asked it to represent him in respect of these 
claims.
At this point, Mr W completed and signed Sandersons instruction form, and conditional fee 
agreement. Within this information, it was noted that Sanderson would operate on a no win, 
no fee basis. If no successful claim was made, no fee would be due. But, if a successful 
claim was made then Sandersons fee would be 30% of the successful claim amount, plus 
VAT.
Sanderson represented Mr W on this basis. And in January 2021 Mr W was informed that 
lender P had made an offer in respect of his claim. This offer was a total of £1,024.61   
made up of two parts. Mr W would be provided with £132.61 in cash. And £892.20 would be 
written off his lending with P.
Because a successful claim had been made, Sanderson sent Mr W an invoice for its fee. It 
noted the fee was £368.68  this being 30%, plus VAT, of the total redress offered to Mr W - 
£1,024.61. Sanderson noted its fee was due in seven days  with any cash element needing 
to have been paid within this timeframe, and any payment plan for the remainder owed to it, 
set up during this time too. 
The above fee (or part-payment plan) wasnt concluded within the first seven days. But Mr W 
did contact Sanderson shortly after. He explained that he couldnt afford the fee Sanderson 
was charging. He highlighted that the fee payable was more than the cash amount hed 
received from lender P. And he asked Sanderson whether it should get its free from lender 
P, instead of him.
In response to this, Sanderson explained that it was Mr W who had engaged its services, 
and the fee was due from him, as part of the agreement hed signed up to. Sanderson said 
Mr W should pay the £132.61 to it in a lump sum, and it could arrange a payment plan for 
the remaining £236.25. 
Mr W didnt feel this was fair. And in early February 2020 he said he would need a payment 
plan set up. Sanderson said it could do this  but would need the £132.61 Mr W had 
received first. It could then agree to a payment plan for the remaining £236.25 owed.
Mr W let Sanderson know he couldnt pay the initial amount. He said the £132.61 had been 
spent on other outstanding debts. And so, he would need a payment plan for the full fee 
owed. 
At this stage, Sanderson and Mr W couldnt agree on the next steps. Sanderson said it 
would need bank statements from Mr W to show what the £132.61 had been spent on, and 
to assess Mr Ws affordability. This being so it could put in place a reasonable payment plan. 
Mr W didnt agree to this. He said that his bank statements were personal in nature, and so 
whilst he was willing to provide information on his income and expenditure, he would not 
provide the bank statements requested.
Towards the end of February 2021, Mr W offered to pay Sanderson a one-off payment of 
£132.61 the following day, leaving a balance of £236.25. Mr W said he would then be able to 
pay the remainder of the balance off, over a five-month period. He didnt receive a response 
to this request. 
But Sanderson did remove some late payment charges from Mr Ws account based on Mr 
Ws offer. However, the above payment didnt come.
A few months later, in April 2021, Sanderson contacted Mr W again, and said it agreed to Mr 
Ws previous offer  of the £132.61 up front, and the rest over a five-month period. It said it 
would contact Mr W within 7 days to organise this. But then in May 2021, it sent Mr W further 
emails, asking for copies of bank statements before it can organise a repayment plan. And in 
June 2021, Sanderson noted it couldnt set up the payment plan, as it wasnt sure whether 
this would be affordable. 
Mr W raised a complaint about the matter. Sanderson maintained its position, and asked Mr 
W to provide 30 days worth of bank statements so it could set up a repayment plan, less the 
cash award being contributed towards the invoice.
Mr W remained unhappy with this position. And so, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld in part. She said that 
Sanderson were acting fairly for invoicing Mr W, and chasing for payment, as Sandersons 
fees had been made clear when Mr W engaged its services. She also said it was reasonable 
for Sanderson to ask for some bank statements before arranging a payment plan with Mr W, 
to make sure this was affordable for him.
However, our investigator thought that Sanderson had caused some confusion once Mr W 
made an offer for paying the fee owed. She said Mr W made an offer, but then didnt receive 
a response to this  rather just received a further standard invoice, with an arrears fee added 
to it. Mr W was then told his offer would be accepted. But then wasnt contacted towards 
this, and Sanderson asked for bank statements instead to decide a payment plan instead.
To recognise this confusion our investigator recommended that Mr W pay the original invoice 
Sandersons had noted was due. But that any additional charges added to Mr Ws account, 
such as arrears fees should be removed.
Sanderson agreed to our investigators view. It said it would remove the two arrears fees  
which equated to £40. As well as a court fee of £73.
Mr W didnt agree the above was fair. He felt some compensation should be provided to him 
for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused by Sanderson when chasing the 
invoice owed.
Because Mr W didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained why below. 
Fee charged 
Mr W has explained hes unhappy with the fee Sanderson Drake has invoiced him for. So, 
Ive considered whether the fee charged is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And, 
having done so, Im satisfied it is.
I say this because Ive looked at the documents Mr W was provided with, and he signed, 
when he appointed Sanderson to represent him. 
On the cover page for these documents, Sanderson notes that the fee for a successful claim 
is 30%, plus VAT of the total claim value. And, it highlights this again within the conditional 
fee agreement. 
The conditional fee agreement does explain the following;
6. Our Fees
6.1 If We deem Your claim unsuccessful You do not owe the Fee.
6.2 Our Fee for Payday Claims is 36% inclusive of VAT of the total Redress.
6.3 Our Fee must be paid to Us within the agreed timescales as shown:
(a) Cash Benefit within 7 days. (b) Full Reduction of debt which requires a payment plan 
must be set up within 7 days of offer.
Please refer to Payday Claim Fees Example for examples.
The examples provided do show what will happen if someone is provided with a cash award, 
and the rest of the award is reduced from the balance held with the lender, as is the case 
here. So, Im satisfied that when Mr W signed up for Sanderson to represent him, he was 
made aware of the fees he would be charged if a claim was successful. 
Sanderson has charged its fee in line with this  so the 30% + VAT on the £1,024.61. Given 
this, I do think Sanderson acted correctly in charging this fee, and invoicing Mr W for this.
Im also aware the terms and conditions of the agreement signed say that the fee is payable 
within seven days. And that if not paid, Sanderson is entitled to charge fees for debt 
collection, such as arrears fees and court fees. So, I also think Sanderson acted reasonable 
in requiring payment within seven days of the invoice, and in noting fees would be charged 
where payment hadnt been received.
Given the above, Im satisfied Sanderson acted reasonably in invoicing Mr W for £368.68.
Handling of fee collection
Our investigator did however note that when handling the collection of its fee, Sanderson 
could have provided a better service to Mr W. And I agree. I would expect Sanderson to respond to Mr W promptly when contacted, and for it to ensure 
a clear, consistent message was provided to Mr W on the next steps. Instead, when Mr W 
made a suggestion as to how we could pay the fee he owed, Sanderson took almost a 
month to respond. Mr W sent chaser emails during this time. And he would have 
understandably been concerned about any charges being added to his account at this point.
When Sanderson did respond to Mr Ws suggestion, almost a month later, it asked for bank 
statements to check Mr W could afford the payment plan. I think this is reasonable, given 
Sanderson would need to ensure any agreed payment plan would be sustainable for Mr W. 
However, I think Sanderson could have also considered other, pragmatic steps to move 
forward, such as the completion of an income and expenditure form instead  so it could 
move forward with arranging the payment plan.
Matters were confused further, at the end of March 2021, when Mr W was told that 
Sanderson accept the payment plan he suggested, and that someone would be in contact 
within seven days to arrange. There was no suggestion of bank statements being needed at 
this point. But Mr W wasnt contacted within seven days. And when Sanderson did contact 
him again, it went back to noting bank statements were needed to proceed. I can appreciate 
how this would have caused confusion to Mr W, given he had received a previous message, 
noting his proposal had been accepted.
Because of this confusion, I dont think it would be reasonable for Sanderson to apply 
arrears fee or court fees during this time. It wasnt clear what was happening with the 
amount owed. So, I can appreciate why Mr W hadnt taken any action at this point. And it 
doesnt feel fair for arrears fees to be charged when there was confusion as to what would 
happen next. Sanderson has agreed to this  and noted the two arrears fees (£40) and court 
fee (£73) charged during this time will be removed from the balance. As these were the fees 
charged during this time, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable.
Mr W has said he should also receive some compensation from Sanderson for the trouble 
and upset caused to him. Ive thought carefully about this. But Im satisfied the removal of 
the above debt collection fees are a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And I 
dont think it would be reasonable to require Sanderson to pay Mr W compensation in 
addition to this. 
I say this because the removal of these fees put right the errors made by Sanderson. Other 
than the above communication errors, Sanderson acted in line with the agreement made by 
charging its fees and chasing for this. And, I dont think it was acting unreasonably in asking 
for evidence  bank statements. So, I dont think Sanderson should reasonably compensate 
Mr W for these things. 
I do also think it would be reasonable for Sanderson to honour the offer it accepted. This 
being for Mr W to pay an upfront payment of £132.61, in line with the terms of the 
agreement. And then, for the remainder of the balance to be paid over five months. Mr W 
has noted it is possible for him to pay this way  and Sanderson will therefore receive the 
fees due to it.
My final decision
Based on the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require 
Sanderson Drake Limited to;Remove the two arrears payment charges added to the account, as well as the court 
fee. This equates to £113. 
Contact Mr W to arrange the payment plan it agreed to on 29 March 2021.  This 
being an upfront payment of £132.61, and then payment of the rest of the balance 
over a five-month period.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman