DRN-3983076
The complaint
Miss A complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In September 2022, Miss A received a phone call from someone who said they worked for a 
well-known online marketplace and asked her if she had tried to make a payment to 
purchase a mobile phone. Miss A said she hadnt, so the caller said it was likely attempted 
fraud and they would transfer the call to someone who could help her with it. The second 
person Miss A spoke to then asked her to download software onto her phone and make a 
payment of £1,249 out of her Revolut account, which she did. Unfortunately we now know 
the callers were scammers.
The scammers told Miss A the payment wouldnt go through and would just bounce back to 
her account, but it did go through so Miss A called Revolut to report the payment as a scam 
and ask it to refund the money she had lost.
Revolut investigated but said it had warned Miss A about the risk of scams before she made 
the payment and had followed her instructions to make the payment. It also said it had 
contacted the bank that received the payment to see if it could be recovered, but was told 
there were no funds left. So it didnt agree to refund the money Miss A had lost. Miss A 
wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they didnt think the payment 
was unusual enough that Revolut should have stopped it or asked any further questions 
before allowing it to go through. And they thought Revolut had done all wed expect to try to 
recover the funds. So they didnt think Revolut should have to refund the money Miss A had 
lost. Miss A disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Revolut to refund the money Miss A 
has lost. Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss A authorised the payments. She accepts she made them 
herself on her mobile phone, as instructed to by the scammers. So while I recognise that she 
didnt intend the money to go to scammers and was told the payment wouldnt go through or 
would be returned to her, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow her 
instructions and process the payment. So Miss A isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Miss As account safe.
But the payment wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount, or for an 
amount that was significantly larger than other payments made out of Miss As account in 
the previous months. And the payment didnt use up the full available balance in the account 
or leave the balance of the account at a particularly unusual level.
So I think its reasonable that Revolut didnt identify that Miss A could be at risk of financial 
harm as a result of this payment, and didnt intervene to ask any further questions before 
allowing it to go through.
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try to recover the money Miss A lost, 
once it had been told about the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to 
try to recover the money from the bank it was sent to. But Revoluts records show it 
contacted the bank the money was sent to. And the bank the money was sent to has told us 
the funds were removed again almost immediately. So I dont think anything we would 
reasonably expect Revolut to have done could have recovered the money Miss A lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss A has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Revolut has acted unreasonably or that anything I 
would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam. So I dont think it 
would be fair to require Revolut to refund the money Miss A has lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman