DRN-4071092
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension arrangement, in 2018. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr B originally dealt with a different firm during the advice process, but Tenet Connect 
Limited is now responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple Ill therefore 
refer mainly to Tenet. 
Ive noted that Mr B also had two, much smaller, defined contribution (DC) pensions. 
However, Mr B is represented by a company in bringing his complaint and I see it is 
specifically about his DB transfer.
What happened
Mr B was a deferred member of the OPS which was operated by his previous employer. 
Hed accrued around 13 years worth of benefits from the 1980s and 1990s. The information 
gathered about Mr B at the time of the advice was broadly as follows:
Mr B was 56 years old, single and had an adult daughter not financially dependent on 
him. Mr B had some health conditions and was unemployed. He earned around £500 
per month (net) in state benefits. 
He had savings described as being £5,000 on deposit. His representative says he 
also had and a further £10,000 in an individual savings account (ISA) and a small 
number of shares in one company, said to be worth less than £1,000. But theres no 
evidence supporting this on the documentation from the time.
Mr B rented his living accommodation and didnt own a property. Other than his 
pension(s), he had no significant assets. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs DB scheme was £282,702. 
His two DC schemes comprised values of around £8,000 and £12,000 respectively, 
although as Ive said, these arent the subject of this complaint.
Tenet set out its advice in a suitability report on 22 May 2018. It recommended Mr B should 
transfer to a type of personal pension plan and then enter a flexi-drawdown arrangement to 
draw an income commensurate with what he told the adviser he needed.
Mr B accepted this advice and so transferred from his DB scheme to a new personal 
pension arrangement. In 2022 Mr B complained to Tenet about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his DB scheme. In response, Tenet said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said she thought it should be upheld. Tenet still didnt agree, so as the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, it came to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this complaint in March 2022. I said in the PD that 
I didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld and I comprehensively explained why. 
However, I gave the parties a further few weeks to send me any new information or evidence 
they wanted me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my PD, when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Tenet should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the 
deferred DB scheme was in Mr Bs best interests. Ive read with great care the full reply from 
Mr Bs representative about my PD and all the points outlined therein. But essentially, these 
were mainly repetitions of points that had already been made or which I have already set out 
my position on. There was no new evidence or information. 
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, I still think the transfer away was in Mr Bs 
overall best interests. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I am not upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
Im not going to spend too much time on this because, like our investigator, I dont think a 
straightforward comparison between Mr Bs existing DB scheme  and the proposal to 
transfer out to a personal pension  showed that it was a worthwhile exercise to transfer out. 
Put another way, I think that transferring away, if only looked at through this lens, looked the 
poorer choice. 
Ill explain why.
As required by the regulator at the time, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between 
his current scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, Tenet referred in its transfer 
analysis to critical yield rates.
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. In Mr Bs case, Tenet said the critical yield required 
to match his benefits at the age of 65 (without taking a tax-free lump sum at the same time) 
was 9.32%. For retiring with a tax-free lump sum at 65, the critical yield was 5.38% Tenets advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 3.5% per year, for 8 years to retirement (aged 65). Ive also kept in mind that the 
regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower 
projection rate was 2%. Tenet assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) as low medium so I 
think a reasonable growth assumption in his case at the time would only have been between 
3.5% -and- 5%. This was below both the critical yield rates Ive described above. So to me, 
this shows that achieving the critical yields described in Mr Bs case was more unlikely than 
likely.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a solely financial comparison perspective, Tenets 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, failed to evidence 
how transferring to a personal pension plan was right for him. The analysis seemed to show 
that by transferring he might receive lower pension benefits in the longer term if he 
transferred away.
Nevertheless, in my view theres much more to this case. And Ive taken account that 
Tenets recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension was not based on 
the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, Tenet said Mr B had some 
other very important reasons to transfer away  and that these reasons were individual and 
specific to Mr B. So, Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant 
a transfer was suitable for him, despite probably providing the overall longer-term lower 
benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these issues below.
Other issues relating to transferring
Tenet says the recommendation to transfer his DB pension was predominantly based on two 
things. The first was that Mr Bs situation at the time was basically unsustainable, from a 
financial point of view. In short, Mr B needed to do something because he simply had 
insufficient income to live on for much longer and some form of action was required. The 
second issue was around his poor health, which Tenet says meant his longevity could be 
affected and so basing assumptions on him living a long life, to average male life expectancy 
for example, wasnt appropriate in his case. 
I broadly agree with Tenet on these points.
At the outset, Tenets suitability report referred to Mr Bs health. In particular, it referred to 
two medical conditions he had and that he was unable to find or commit to regular work due 
to his poor health. Evidence showed he suffered from mobility difficulties. His aerobic 
capacity was also affected and he was suffering from depression.
Mr B earned only £500 per month in state benefits, but his basic outgoings were consistently 
higher than this, at around £735 per month. So, Mr Bs income at the time met only around 
68% of the bare minimum he required  and this was without any discretionary spending or 
covering rises that might occur. Ive seen evidence in the documentation from the time that Mr B, unsurprisingly, was finding coping financially a struggle and he wanted to use his 
pension savings to get out of this cycle. Its not entirely clear how Mr B was managing to get 
by at the time, although theres a suggestion he was periodically doing very short-term 
casual work to support his state benefit income. 
Given his circumstances, I think Mr B was in a very difficult and vulnerable financial position. 
He appeared unable to sustainably work at the time; nor was he legally able to increase his 
monthly income because doing so would affect his state benefit entitlement  any additional 
income he earned could reduce his state benefits. Even if doing casual work, declaring this 
(as he ought to) would likely reduce his benefit entitlement or remove it completely. So, 
essentially Mr Bs options to earn more, to meet his monthly income needs, were to access 
his pension(s), but doing so would likely mean forgoing £500 per month in state benefits.
So, I think Mr B faced some difficult choices and in my view he had to do something. The 
evidence showed that, not unreasonably, Mr B was seeking to get to a position whereby he 
could stop worrying about being in a constant monthly deficit situation, and move to a life 
where he had enough to live on with a little left over for holidays and / or moderate family 
gifting. These aspirations were noted in the documents from the time of the advice. An 
annual income of £16,800 (£1,400 per month gross) was what Mr B said he needed to meet 
these objectives. 
Ive read what Mr Bs representative says about discretionary spending  it basically says he 
didnt need it and it rejects the need for expensive holidays or long-haul travel. However, I 
think the representative is exaggerating these issues. What I think Mr B said he was seeking 
was modest discretionary spending after struggling to get by financially for some time. And I 
dont think these aspirations were unreasonable.
The adviser listed all these challenges in the suitability report and considered nine different 
options for Mr B to move forward with. Examples included accessing his DB pension there 
and then, which would involve drawing a somewhat lower annual amount due to him 
accessing the pension early (aged 56), and potentially, for longer. Other options included 
buying an annuity with his CETV, accessing his DB pension later (somewhere in the years 
after 56), transferring to a stakeholder pension, or a combination of various options.
In the end we know the advice from Tenet was to transfer his DB scheme (and his other DC 
pensions) to a personal pension plan. Tenet said this solution would enable Mr B to:
have flexible control over his income.
be able to achieve the desired income level from the outset.
provide tax efficient income making use of his income tax personal allowance.
provide death benefits with more flexibility for him.
address Mr Bs concern on his future quality of life and longevity.
It said the recommendation would be right for him because:
it appeared to be the only way for him to achieve his income needs.
the current schemes couldnt meet his current income need.
the current schemes couldnt facilitate what was being recommended.he was prepared to give up the security of his current DB benefits.
he was prepared to accept exposure to investment risk.
he didnt need the tax-free cash up front and this should be left invested for future 
growth.
he could adjust the income when his state pension started thus reducing the burden 
on this fund in the future.
he was willing to give up the state benefits in favour of having a higher income to 
make ends meet and improve his quality of life.
Ive looked at Tenets reasoning with great care. Ive also considered what our investigator 
said about whether Tenets rationale for transferring contained no more than stock 
objectives, used basically to justify the transfer away from the DB scheme. 
But I think what the adviser was trying to achieve here was to put Mr B in a position where 
he could pay his way each month, with some modest amounts left over for other things. Mr B 
was in a difficult situation: he couldnt maintain the status quo because his low income 
wasnt meeting his monthly expenditure commitments and he was clearly struggling to get 
by. And all the evidence Ive seen suggests this was probably contributing to his health 
problems, most notably his mental health and wellbeing. 
Although Mr B needed to increase his income, doing so would immediately reduce his state 
benefits, but Ive seen there was most likely a discussion about this and from what I can see, 
I think Mr B understood what he was being told. The adviser recorded that Mr Bs income 
expectations were of £16,800 per year. I think this was well evidenced and based on a 
reasonable income to get by on, with holidays and family gifting as extras. Mr B told the 
adviser that he considered taking a regular holiday in a warmer climate to be beneficial to his 
health. And I think that giving the medical conditions he had, this is probably right. So, whilst 
in a certain context this level of income / spending could be categorised as discretionary 
spending, I do think that in this particular case there were justifiable reasons supporting it.
Even if I were to remove the holiday spending and discretionary element from Mr Bs 
aspirational spending plans, he would have still required an income of around £9,000 simply 
to get by on, with no room for any additional contingencies or inflation. So, I think £9,000 per 
year was no more than a sustenance level.
What else could Mr B have done?
Mr B could have accessed his DB pension immediately. But by accessing this early, at the 
age of 56, this would have meant it was reduced to £8,400 per year which still fell short of 
his income requirements. Hed have also lost his state benefits. Of course, he could have 
complemented this income in an ad-hoc way using his two much smaller DC pensions. But 
given their combined and moderate values, these wouldnt have lasted long and I think 
operating on this basis for several years would have added more financial stress to Mr Bs 
life. In any event, he would have barely met his most basic income requirements for only a 
few short years by using this method before his DC scheme monies ran out. 
Mr Bs representative implied he had other assets which could have been used to support 
drawing his DB pension in the way Ive described. It said, for instance, that he had £5,000 in 
deposit savings, a £10,000 ISA and shares worth under £1,000. Had there been evidence of 
these assets, I may have agreed that transferring his DB pension was indeed unsuitable. 
This is because Mr B could have used these assets to extend the period where he could complement his DB pension income of £8,400 per year. Essentially this would have got him 
much nearer to the state retirement age which in his case was 66. In such a case remaining 
in his DB scheme and accessing the benefits immediately might have worked for him.
However, on balance, I dont think these assets, as listed by Mr Bs representative are 
correct. The only savings duly recorded at the time were the £5,000 deposit savings and I 
think if Mr B had these other savings and shares in place, his state benefits would have been 
affected. I asked to see evidence of these other savings. But following my PD, Mr Bs 
representative wasnt able to explain why these apparent assets were only ever mentioned 
after he made his complaint or why hes unable to now provide evidence of them.
So, Im basing my decision here on the evidence recorded at the time of the advice and 
declared by Mr B himself. Mr B hasnt produced evidence of these other resources. Of 
course, if Mr B did have £10,000 in an ISA and under £1,000 in shares, they ought to have 
been declared.
Ive therefore only considered the £5,000 in savings which Mr B did declare. If this is all he 
had, I think that Mr B would have been allowed to keep these under the state benefit rules 
prevailing at the time. Whilst these would have helped Mr B to complement any income he 
had from elsewhere, Im conscious that these were likely his only means of protecting 
himself from unexpected events and they wouldnt have lasted that long anyway. So, Ive 
discounted using these on the basis that they were correctly being kept as a type of 
emergency fund.
I considered too, all the other available options open to the adviser when he was telling Mr B 
what he could do. But the issue here was that Mr B really needed to start generating a 
reliable income. And all the options for doing this at the comparatively young age of 56 didnt 
provide the income Mr B wanted or needed. I think the information Mr B was given at the 
time about what he was giving up by leaving his DB scheme was sufficient for him to 
understand the pros and cons of the options he was given. I also find the evidence that Mr B 
had a good degree of financial knowledge to be persuasive in this case.
Its simply the case that the other options just werent suitable for Mr B. Buying an annuity or 
entering a Section 32 agreement (a type of guarantee) took Mr B no further forward. And the 
various combinations of some of the options I mentioned above was, in my view, just 
moving money around. Other than the recommendation he was given, the next best option 
was to just stay in his DB scheme and start accessing it early  and Ive explained why this 
didnt meet Mr Bs needs.
Mr Bs health
Mr Bs health closely interacted with and affected all the above challenges he faced at the 
time. Thats because, in effect there was no realistic prospect of paid work for him because 
his health, both physical and mental, was a real cause for concern. That he was potentially 
able to access an enhanced annuity, due to his health conditions, supports this view. Such a 
scheme effectively offers to pay a retiree more because he or she is not expected to live a 
long life. Im respectful, of course, that this is not a pleasant topic of debate, but discussion 
from the time centred on Mr B considering his life expectancy to be around 20 years from 
that point, which would see him living until his mid-to-late 70s.
I accept its very hard to be precise in these cases about longevity, but Tenet recorded in 
considerable detail the health issues Mr B faced. I think if these had somehow been 
overblown, he would have raised this at the time. Clearly, Im not a medical professional but 
there were numerous references to Mr B not attaining average male life expectancy, 
including references from Mr B himself. Given the information available and the nature of the acute conditions Mr B had, I think what the adviser did was to help Mr B use his pensions  
his only real assets  in a way that improved his quality of life. He was able to enjoy his 
desired income until his late 70s which I think was commensurate with his own longevity 
expectations. I also think those expectations were fair and reasonable ones in the 
circumstances. 
All this allowed Mr B a degree of flexibility. His state pension was also due at age 66, a little 
over 9 years from the point of the advice whereupon he could expect a financial uplift. So, in 
the run up to this, Mr B might have chosen to periodically reduce his annual income for sake 
of preparing for the future should his health improve. I think this deals with the points made 
by the representative after I issued my PD which suggested that there was always a chance 
his health might not be as bad as previously billed.
Other issues  pension death benefits
Ive considered the death benefits offered by Mr Bs DB scheme. In his case, the spouse 
benefits, should he die, were not an apparent concern for him. He was unmarried and as far 
as I know, Mr B raised no objection when this was set out in the suitability report. Ive 
therefore worked on the basis that Mr B was currently single and had no intentions or plans 
to marry.
The advice remarked that if he transferred to a personal plan hed be able to more flexibly 
nominate a beneficiary in the event of his death. In this case it would be Mr Bs daughter. Of 
course, wed all hope that passing on such wealth would be unnecessary as it would mean 
Mr B was continuing to live a long life and enjoy his pension benefits. However, In his case I 
think the adviser was being pragmatic and basing his advice on the more likely outcome of 
events. So, whilst no doubt hoping to live a long life, the option here was for Mr B to 
nominate his daughter in the meantime, should his health expectations be borne out.
In short, in most pension scenarios Id probably say that transferring from a DB scheme 
wasnt worth the more flexible death benefits typically offered by personal pension plans. 
However, in this case, I think the death benefit flexibility somewhat complemented the other 
transfer rationale.
Summary
In my view, at the point of seeking advice Mr B was experiencing financial stress in that his 
income was significantly below his outgoings. He was a man of modest means, with savings 
which I think were rightly accepted by the Tenet adviser to be for emergencies only. Ive 
seen no evidence whatsoever of additional assets as claimed by Mr Bs representative, as 
these would have impacted on his benefits entitlement. 
It seems to me that Mr B had endured a period of very low income  an income which could 
only be increased by accessing his only real resource, which was his combined pension 
savings. So, after enduring financial constraints for some time, Mr B saw accessing his 
pension savings of around £300,000 as a potential solution to his problems. Not 
unreasonably, he wanted to meet his current expenditure needs but also have a little left 
over for holidays to sunnier climates and to support moderate discretionary spending.
Mr Bs expectations were therefore modest and in my view, completely reasonable. I also 
think the adviser acted reasonably. He appears to have explained the dangers involved in 
transferring away from a DB scheme, most notably that Mr B would be giving up a 
guaranteed and index-linked pension for life. But the adviser, in my view, also took a 
pragmatic view and noted that Mr Bs significant health issues would likely mean his life 
expectancy could be reduced. Mr B also needed an income straight away.In this context, the adviser considered a number of issues, all of which were set out for Mr B 
clearly in the suitability report. Im satisfied from the evidence that Mr B possessed a 
sufficient degree of financial knowledge to understand the choices he had and the warnings 
given. 
The adviser then produced a recommendation which I think was in Mr Bs best interests. In 
my view, what the adviser was doing was offering Mr B a reasonable, but still modest 
income, after a long period of him struggling financially and his health no doubt been 
affected as a result. And although Mr Bs hoped for income of £1,400 per month (gross) did 
incorporate some addition al and discretionary spending, I dont think this was either 
unreasonable or flamboyant. The advisers recommendation offered a practical income with 
some extras that would be supportive of Mr Bs financial situation, and indeed his physical 
and mental health.
So, what the adviser did was to help use Mr Bs pensions  his only real assets  in a way 
that improved his quality of life. Under the recommendation provided by Tenet, Mr B was 
able to enjoy this income until his late 70s which I think was commensurate with his 
longevity expectations. These had been discussed openly with Mr B at the time of the 
advice. Mr Bs state pension was also due at age 66, a little over 9 years from the point of 
the advice.
I do accept the risk here was that Mr B outlived his own and the advisers expectations of his 
late 70s. But on balance, this enabled Mr B to enjoy what he would have considered to be 
an agreeable income for over 20 years. Up to that point, Mr B had the flexibility to reduce his 
pension take should his very poor health improve. I also believe his state pension offered a 
safety net and would have largely catered for Mr Bs essential spending should he live 
longer.
My final decision
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B, but my final decision is that Im not upholding his 
complaint. Tenet Connect Limited doesnt need to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman