DRN-2141791
The complaint
Miss P complains Loans 2 Go Limited didnt make clear the interest charged and the term 
set on a fixed-sum loan she took out with it. She also complains the early settlement figure it 
quoted is too high.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss P entered into a fixed-sum loan agreement with Loans 2 Go. The amount 
borrowed was £728.14, to be repaid along with interest over a term of 18 months. The 
monthly repayment was £166.42, and the total amount payable was £2,995.56.
 
In September 2019, Miss P complained to Loans 2 Go that the interest rate was too high. 
She said she didnt realise how high the repayments would be and how long they would last. 
Miss P also raised concerns about the early settlement figure of £778.32 and said it didnt 
count any payments shed already made.
 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree the information it provided Miss P at the point of sale was unclear. It 
also said it had calculated the settlement figure in line with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
and the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regulations).
 
Our investigator thought Loans 2 Go had provided clear enough information about the cost 
and duration of the loan before Miss P agreed to take it out. He also thought Loans 2 Go had 
calculated the early settlement figure in line with the regulations.
 
Miss P disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
she felt shed already paid more than the amount borrowed and couldnt understand why she 
was still required to pay all that interest if she wanted to settle the loan early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss P feels strongly about her complaint. But its important I explain Im not deciding 
whether the interest rate on her loan was too high. The rate of interest charged by a lender is 
a matter for its commercial judgement, something this service doesnt interfere with. What 
Im considering here is whether Loans 2 Go provided Miss P with clear information about the 
interest rate before she agreed to take out the loan, and whether it calculated the early 
settlement figure correctly.
Miss P was provided with  and signed  the pre-contract credit information about the loan in 
April 2019. It sets out information about the loan including the amount borrowed, total 
amount repayable, rate of interest and the interest amount charged, term of the loan, the 
monthly repayment amount and number of repayments, as well as Miss Ps right to withdraw 
from the loan.
 
The loan agreement  which Miss P also signed  contains the same information about the 
loan. Just above the signature section, it states 
Read full agreement, including Terms of the Agreement, before signing. This is a 
Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms.
As both documents set out the relevant information, Im satisfied Loans 2 Go made Miss P 
sufficiently aware of what she needed to pay each month, and for how long, before she 
decided to proceed with the loan. So, I dont think it was mis-sold.
With loans of this kind, all the interest is added upfront and repayments are based on an 
amortisation schedule. This means the total amount repayable is spread over the term of the 
loan. Each monthly payment is made up of some of the capital borrowed and some of the 
interest. In the earlier stages, more of the monthly payment goes towards paying the 
interest. This is because interest is calculated on the outstanding balance which is higher at 
the start. As the balance reduces over time, more of the monthly payment goes towards 
paying the capital. 
What this means is that although monthly repayments were equal, the interest and capital 
payments werent evenly spread throughout the term of Miss Ps loan. When she asked for 
an early settlement figure, very little of the capital on Miss Ps loan had been repaid. 
Although the interest is added upfront, the regulations set out a complex formula that lenders 
should use to calculate any rebate of interest when a consumer decides to repay a loan 
early. So, Loans 2 Go was required to apply this formula when calculating the interest rebate 
on Miss Ps loan. I acknowledge Miss P was given a settlement figure in excess of the 
amount she borrowed, but Im satisfied it took into account the payments shed already 
made. I havent seen anything to suggest the interest rebate wasnt in accordance with the 
regulations. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded Loans 2 Gos calculation was unfair, unreasonable or 
contrary to the terms and conditions of the agreement or the regulations. I acknowledge 
Miss Ps frustrations, but for the reasons given, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to tell 
Loans 2 Go to do anything further. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman