DRN-4484316
The complaint
Mrs J complains that City Financial Planning Ltd (City), her financial adviser, failed to help 
her correct a mistake in a timely manner. She says this caused her a financial loss.
This service has already considered Mrs Js related complaint about her pension provider. 
So I wont consider her complaint against it in this decision. 
What happened
Mrs J had a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with a provider Ill refer to as provider A. 
On 31 March 2022, Mrs J accidentally changed her Selected Retirement Age (SRA) from 60 
to 65 on provider As online system. Later that day, provider A sent Mrs J an email 
confirming shed updated her SRA and that itd recorded this change. 
On 8 April 2022, provider A wrote to Mrs J to tell her that her instruction to switch 
investments in her SIPP had been carried out. It also sent a switch statement confirming the 
details of the transactions. The letter said that if Mrs J had any questions about the switch, 
she should call it. But also said that if an adviser had done the switch on her behalf, she 
should speak to them first. 
Mrs J called her City adviser on 21 April 2022 to tell him about the switch confirmation shed 
received from provider A. She said she hadnt requested a switch. Mrs Js adviser called 
provider A to ask them whatd happened. He called Mrs J back the same day. 
Mrs J told this service that shed made it clear during her 21 April 2022 call with her adviser 
that it hadnt been her intention or desire to change her SRA. And that it was clearly a 
mistake. She said shed asked her adviser for advice on what she should do. And said that 
hed suggested she should log a complaint with provider A. Citys notes from that call 
recorded that the adviser said the switch had occurred because Mrs J had changed her 
retirement age. He agreed to complain to provider A on Mrs Js behalf about the online 
process.
Provider A took some time to respond to Mrs Js complaint. It wrote on 14 June 2022 to say 
it expected to reply by 10 August. Mrs Js adviser asked for internal advice on whether he 
should progress the complaint with this service at this point. He was told that he should 
continue to pursue the complaint with provider A. He contacted Mrs J and she agreed to wait 
for a response from provider A. 
Provider A didnt respond to the complaint by 10 August 2022 either. So City chased it for a 
response by phone and email on 11 August 2022. During the phone conversation, City 
asked provider A to carry out a price comparison of the two funds. 
Provider A didnt respond to further chasers until 22 August 2022, when it emailed City about 
the 11 August 2022 call. It said:
I had requested a price comparison to be done as discussed on our call, however Ive been 
informed that as the customer/yourselves have not switched back into the original fund, we 
cannot do an analysis to calculate any compensation. If you do decide to switch back, we 
can request this comparison for you.
On 31 August 2022, Mrs Js adviser told her that despite chasing provider A, it hadnt yet 
responded to her complaint. But he said it had emailed him to tell him it would carry out a 
calculation to place Mrs J back into the same financial position she wouldve been in had the 
fund switch not occurred. He said: I am therefore concluding that they are in agreement 
regarding our complaint. Mrs Js adviser went on to tell her: 
However, as we have not switched back into the previous fund they are unable to do this 
calculation themselves or so they have suggested and I will therefore, next week on my 
return, do these calculations to work out if and by how much you have financially lost and go 
back to them. If, by chance, you happen to be financially at an advantage due to the fund 
switch, I will still pursue some form of monetary compensation for the hassle and time it has 
taken to resolve this.
Mrs Js adviser said that he continued to chase provider A for a complaint response. But that 
he didnt hear anything until he received another holding response on 27 September 2022. 
He said that provider A confirmed for the first time that its complaint response times were 
being affected due to high volumes. 
Mrs Js adviser said that as the complaint had still not been dealt with after having been 
escalated, he contacted Mrs J and they decided to switch the fund back so that when 
provider A did look at the case, it would provide a price comparison. This led to Mrs Js SRA 
being changed back from 60 to 65 on 27 September 2022, and a switch back of funds. 
Provider A issued a complaint response dated 1 October 2022. It felt itd administered Mrs 
Js SIPP correctly. And provided a screenshot of a warning it said she wouldve seen when 
shed updated her SRA. But it apologised for the length of time taken to issue the complaint 
response. 
Provider A acknowledged that City had asked it to complete a price comparison to assess 
Mrs Js position. It said that it would only complete a price comparison and a corrective 
adjustment where itd made a mistake which impacted a customer. But that it hadnt done 
that here. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with provider As response. She didnt think itd been fully investigated. 
And felt that itd taken too long to get a response.
Mrs J and her adviser drafted a written response to provider As final response letter which 
they sent to it on 17 October 2022. Amongst other things, this asked it why itd previously 
said it would carry out a comparison of funds.
City again chased provider A for a response. But it didnt provide one until 1 March 2023. It 
still didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said it would only carry out a price comparison 
and make corrections to an account if it was at fault. Provider A acknowledged that City had 
been told that it couldn't perform a price comparison because Mrs J hadn't switched back 
into the original fund. While this was correct, it said it couldve mentioned that the price 
comparison would only be completed in the event that itd made a mistake. It apologised for 
being somewhat misleading. 
Mrs J complained to City about the handling of her case on 2 April 2023. She felt Citys 
actions had caused her financial loss. And said shed lost trust and confidence in City as her 
adviser. She also made the following points:From the start, shed asked City what to do. She never made any changes to her 
pension without advice. She didnt know why the fund switch had been triggered. So 
shed contacted her adviser whod logged a complaint on her behalf with her pension 
provider.
She didnt think either City or her pension provider had been proactive about her 
complaint. And as she waited longer and longer for a response from her pension 
provider, she became more and more concerned about the potential loss. She had 
originally felt that if City ran the complaint with her pension provider for her, it would 
be dealt with swiftly.
When her pension provider wrote to her again about a further switch, she again 
asked City for help. She said her adviser had suggested that she move the funds 
back to where she wanted them to be. And to change her retirement age to prevent 
further changes. She said this was extremely concerning given she could see how 
volatile her pension values were at that time. But said her adviser had assured her it 
would be fine as her pension provider would carry out a price comparison to put her 
back to where she was before the switch occurred. Mrs J said City made the 
changes for her as she couldnt find where to do this.
City issued its final response to the complaint on 31 May 2023. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said Mrs Js adviser had been proactive in chasing up a response to her 
complaint with provider A. And that he had also discussed the case internally on several 
different occasions with other experienced people within the business to see what else could 
be done. 
City also said that provider A had told it that it would be looking to carry out a price 
comparison between the two funds. So it felt that the decision to change the SRA back had 
been sound, as it would allow provider A to complete the calculation. It felt provider A had 
backtracked on its offer to do this. And that there was no way it couldve known this would 
happen. 
One of our ombudsmen issued the final decision on Mrs Js complaint against provider A on 
17 July 2023. We didnt think that provider A had done anything wrong. 
Mrs J brought her complaint about City to this service on 29 August 2023. She said that she 
always made changes to her pension through her adviser. She said she hadnt known why 
provider A had carried out the switch. So shed contacted her adviser for help. She said 
shed always sought advice and trusted each person to do their job. Mrs J said that shed 
made it clear from the start that the change had been a mistake which shed simply wanted 
corrected. And that her adviser had failed to address the mistake, choosing instead to make 
a complaint. She felt that he shouldve known how to correct the error. 
Mrs J said shed been deeply upset and distressed about whatd happened. And that shed 
lost faith in City and found a new adviser. 
Our investigator felt that Mrs J had made it quite clear that she didn't want to reduce her 
retirement age to 60 and that it was only an accidental error. He didnt think City had acted 
appropriately when it appeared to have waited to see if the Mrs J might benefit from any 
price comparison he felt provider A had offered to carry out, rather than correcting the error 
in a timely fashion. He felt that rather than raising a complaint with provider A in the first 
instance, City shouldve thought about reversing the error.
City didnt agree with our investigator. But said it had no further evidence to provide. It said it 
didnt have to make the complaint on behalf of Mrs J. But it had. And a lot of time was spent over several months engaging with provider A, Mrs J and this service in relation to the 
original complaint about provider A. It also said that Mrs Js adviser had discussed and 
agreed with her what the next steps would be at each point of contact. So it had always been 
a joint decision made between both parties. It also said that Mrs J herself had made the 
original mistake. And that she couldve gone back online at any stage to reverse her error. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I consider that the issue in question here is whether Mrs Js adviser acted fairly and 
reasonably when she first informed him about what had happened on 21 April 2022. 
Did Mrs Js adviser do what he shouldve done on 21 April 2022?
I acknowledge that it was Mrs J who made the initial mistake on 31 March 2022 when she 
accidentally changed her SRA without knowing. Im persuaded that she didnt realise what 
this meant until she received provider As letter dated 8 April 2022 sometime later that 
month.
As I noted earlier, that letter told Mrs J to call her adviser in the first instance: if an adviser 
had done the switch on her behalf. 
I appreciate that Mrs Js adviser hadnt carried out the switch for her. But Im satisfied that 
Mrs J didnt know that at the time. Therefore, based on the wording of provider As letter, I 
think it was reasonable for her to have called her adviser first, rather than provider A.
Ive not been provided with any call recordings, so I cant know exactly what was said during 
the calls between Mrs J and her adviser on 21 April 2022. But Mrs J told this service that 
shed been clear that it hadnt been her intention or desire to change her SRA. 
Mrs Js adviser then called provider A who confirmed that Mrs J had changed her SRA 
online. The adviser called Mrs J to tell her what had happened. His call notes stated:
Switch occurred due to ret age change by [Mrs J]. Complaint opened on behalf.
Mrs J said that her adviser had suggested that she log a complaint with provider A about the 
online process.
The evidence shows that Mrs Js adviser knew from 21 April 2022, that Mrs J had made an 
error when shed accidentally changed her SRA. And that she hadnt wanted to make the 
change. 
If the adviser had simply helped Mrs J to change her SRA back at this point, I consider that 
the impact of the error wouldve been mitigated as far as possible. It still wouldve been 
possible to complain to provider A about its online process. But Mrs J wouldnt have been 
left worrying about having her funds invested against the wrong SRA for so long. 
The adviser did, in September 2022, help Mrs J to change her SRA. So he was clearly in a 
position to do so on 21 April 2022.I consider that the adviser had another reasonable option on 21 April 2022, after hed found 
out what had happened. He couldve asked Mrs J to call provider A, or agreed to call it 
himself, to explain the situation and arrange for the switch to be corrected.
I dont doubt that the adviser thought he was acting in Mrs Js best interests on 21 April 2022 
when he suggested she raised a complaint with provider A. Thered already been a short 
period since the switch she hadnt wanted had taken place. But Im persuaded that there 
were more reasonable options available to the adviser that wouldve immediately mitigated 
any potential further losses much more quickly and efficiently than the path he suggested 
she take. 
I understand why City feels that it tried to help Mrs J. I appreciate that it didnt have to make 
the complaint to provider A on her behalf. And that this took a lot of time and effort. I can 
also see that it involved Mrs J during the process. 
While Im persuaded that City did always agree every step with Mrs J before moving forward, 
and I acknowledge that she was the one who made the initial error, I take the view that her 
adviser shouldve advised her to take all mitigating steps before advising her to complain to 
provider A. 
I also acknowledge that Mrs J couldve gone back online at any stage to reverse her error. 
But Im satisfied that she didnt know how to do this. I say this because Mrs J told this 
service that she didnt know shed made the change in the first place. And she didnt know 
how to reverse the change. And when it was eventually reversed, Mrs J had to get her 
adviser to do it for her as she couldn't remember how to do it. 
Ive also seen no evidence that her adviser advised Mrs J that she should change her SRA 
back. Instead, the evidence shows that he told her to complain to provider A.
From what Ive seen, the adviser didnt do what he shouldve done on 21 April 2022. While I 
can see that he tried to help Mrs J, Im of the view that he shouldve helped her to correct her 
original error before he helped her to complain to provider A about its online service.
I also considered whether provider A ever told City it was committed to carry out a loss 
assessment for Mrs J.
Did provider A commit to carry out a loss assessment?
Mrs Js adviser spoke to provider A on 11 August 2022. While I dont have a recording of 
that call, its not disputed that during that conversation, he asked it to carry out a price 
comparison of the two funds for Mrs J.
Then on 22 August 2022, provider A emailed City about the 11 August 2022 call. The 
background section of my decision includes the relevant wording from this email. I consider 
that this does appear to show that provider A had requested a price comparison for Mrs J, 
but that this couldnt be done until shed reversed the switch. 
Im satisfied that Mrs Js adviser believed that provider A would carry out a price comparison 
for Mrs J and that it would put her back into the same financial position she wouldve been in 
had the fund switch not occurred. Mrs J also felt that the adviser was certain this would be 
the case. She told this service that her adviser: was in full belief this was going to happen. 
With his assurance I agreed the switch.
But Mrs Js adviser made a mistake when he assumed that provider A would inevitably carry 
out a price comparison for Mrs J. I consider he shouldve known, as a financial adviser, that provider A wouldnt commit to a loss assessment calculation until it had completed its review 
of the complaint and worked out whether or not it had done anything wrong. Mrs Js adviser 
knew that her complaint was still being considered. So he shouldnt have assumed that 
provider A would accept responsibility for the situation until it had completed that review. 
It wasnt until provider A issued its final response to the complaint on 1 October 2022 that 
Mrs J and her adviser became aware that provider A would only carry out a price 
comparison if it had made an error. And it didnt think that it had. 
I acknowledge that provider As final response letter took far longer than expected. Had it 
been sent earlier, Mrs J and her adviser wouldve realised sooner that provider A wouldnt 
carry out a loss calculation on her behalf. But this doesnt change the fact that it had always 
been possible for City to have helped Mrs J to mitigate any future losses from her original 
error on 21 April 2022, when I consider it shouldve corrected the error.
Mrs J didnt need to wait for provider As final response letter before switching funds. As our 
investigator noted, she and her financial adviser continued to be responsible for her 
investments while she was waiting for a complaint response. And this responsibility included 
taking steps to minimise any losses by switching back to her original fund as soon as 
possible. 
I next considered the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused Mrs J.
Distress and inconvenience
While I acknowledge that Mrs J made the original error here, Ive explained why I consider 
that if City had acted differently her potential future losses wouldve been mitigated much 
earlier. Therefore she wouldve been concerned for a much shorter period of time. 
Mrs J told this service shed been deeply upset and distressed about whatd happened. And 
that shed lost faith in City and therefore had to find a new adviser. 
Ive carefully considered the impact Citys mistakes have had on Mrs J. Our awards for 
distress and inconvenience take into account the impact a businesss mistakes have had on 
a customer. And our guidelines suggest that an award of around £500 is fair and reasonable 
where a business has caused considerable distress, upset and worry, and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. And with the impact 
typically lasting over many weeks or even months.
This has clearly been the case for Mrs J. And its also clear that shes lost trust in City. 
Therefore I agree with our investigator that City should be required to pay Mrs J £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs J back into the position she would likely 
have been in if City Financial Planning Ltd had corrected her error on 21 April 2022, rather 
than 27 September 2022. 
City Financial Planning Ltd should work with provider A to calculate what Mrs Js SIPP 
wouldve been worth at the date of my final decision if City Financial Planning Ltd had 
arranged for her error to be reversed on 21 April 2022. If this value is greater than the actual 
value of the SIPP at the date of my final decision, then there is a loss. 
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Js SIPP with provider A. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs J as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mrs J has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
I also require City Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mrs J £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience its errors have caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Js complaint. I require City Financial Planning 
Ltd to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman