DRN-1588436
The complaint
Mrs D complains that when U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered to renew motor insurance 
policies for her and her husband, it offered a lower loyalty discount to her due to her gender. 
She also says it didnt deal with her complaint properly.   
What happened
Mrs D says she called UKI to query why her husband had been offered a higher loyalty 
discount, but its advisor couldnt give her a satisfactory answer. And he said UKIs multi-car 
discount only applied to Mr Ds car, as hers was the donor policy. Mrs D accepted that there 
were differences between the two policies, but she wanted specific details about how these 
affected the loyalty discount. 
UKI said discounts were calculated (by computer) using algorithms, based on business-
sensitive information that its advisors couldnt see. It said it couldnt give Mrs D more specific 
details, for commercial reasons. Mrs D wasnt happy with that explanation.
One of our investigators considered her complaint. He noted that UKI said it based discounts 
on various factors (including the type of vehicle insured, its mileage and age). He thought it 
was fair for UKI to offer different discounts to Mrs D and Mr D, as some of the factors that 
applied to each of them were different. He said it was standard practice across the insurance 
industry not to release business-sensitive information. The investigator thought UKI had 
dealt with Mrs Ds complaint in a timely manner. He didnt think it was unreasonable for it not 
to listen to the calls between Mrs D and its advisors (as Mrs D thought) as it didnt dispute 
what was said in them.  
Mrs D said she still wanted to know what differences between her and Mr D were taken into 
account. She said the calls should have been listened to. She said they showed shed been 
given incorrect reasons for the discounts (such as her credit score being worse than her 
husbands, when in fact it was better). She said she hadnt been given any clear evidence to 
show that her gender played no part in UKIs calculations.
The investigator said UKI had considered a range of risk factors and had taken into account 
that the basic premium for Mr Ds policy was higher than that for Mrs Ds policy. Mrs D said it 
wasnt right for her not to know all the factors UKI had considered.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that UKI dealt with Mrs Ds complaint within a reasonable time. 
And although it could have listened to the calls between its advisors and Mrs D, I dont think 
it would have made any difference to the outcome had it done so. 
Mrs D wasnt happy that during those calls she wasnt given specific details to explain why 
UKI had offered different discounts to her and Mr D. But UKI says its advisors dont have 
access to any business-sensitive data. So theyre limited to providing examples of the 
factors that might have applied. We think its reasonable for insurers to safeguard sensitive 
commercial data. Based on what Mrs D has said about the calls, I dont think their content 
can be regarded as inadequate or indicative of poor service on the advisors part. 
We asked UKI if it could be more specific with us about the basis on which Mrs Ds discount 
was calculated. It said it couldnt elaborate on all the factors that go into the models used to 
predict the likelihood and size of claims. It said there were hundreds of them, all of which 
interacted with each other. But it confirmed that two of the major factors related to the 
insured car (to which it said tens of rating points applied) and the main driver. As examples 
of general factors applying to the latter, UKI listed occupation and claims history, but not 
gender. It said that had no impact on the rating process.  
UKI said the primary factor affecting the discount offered was the expected claims cost of a 
policy - relative to the premium. It repeated that Mrs Ds policy was rated as a lower risk than 
Mr Ds policy - and it quoted the figures produced by the system as evidence of that. But 
despite Mrs D being considered lower risk, Mr D paid a higher premium. That meant the ratio 
of likely claims from him - set against the premium he paid for his car - was lower. UKI said 
that entitled him to a better discount. 
We dont determine how an insurer should rate risks and award discounts. We consider 
whether it appears that a consumer has been treated fairly. In my opinion, UKI has given a 
reasonable explanation about why the discount offered to Mrs D was less than that offered 
to Mr D. I understand why she assumed her gender may have been a factor, but theres no 
evidence of that. I havent seen anything to show shes been treated unfairly. 
As I dont think Mrs D has shown that UKI acted unreasonably, I cant uphold her complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman