DRN-4250878
The complaint
Mr M complained because Monzo Bank Limited refused to refund him for payments from his 
account, which he said he hadnt authorised.
What happened
On 1 June 2022, a payment of £1.04 debited Mr Ms Monzo account, followed immediately 
by another for £24.26. There were further payments in June and July, all to the same 
recipient organisation. The total came to £165.65.
On 1 August, Mr M completed a Monzo online dispute form to report that he hadnt made the 
transactions. Monzo investigated. The payments had been made using a mobile payment 
service, using ecommerce online. Monzo replaced Mr Ms card, after which there were no 
more disputed payments. But Monzo didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint that the payments had 
been fraudulent, and it refused to refund him. In its final response letter, Monzo said that the 
decision was based on the data it had available, and the timeline of events. These 
suggested it wasnt possible for the transactions to have been authorised by anyone else.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed been out cycling at the time of some of the transactions, 
which he said he could prove by an app. He also said hed asked several times to speak to 
Monzo, rather than use email. Monzo reopened the complaint, but still didnt uphold it. It told 
Mr M that a phone call would serve no purpose as hed been through Monzos complaint 
process. It gave him referral rights to this service. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He set out what had happened, and said 
hed lost £165.65 as a result of the fraudulent claims. He also asked for a formal apology 
from Monzo and acceptance it had handled his case badly. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said that it was likely that Mr M had been 
scammed into signing up to a Continuous Payment Authority, but there was no evidence that 
Mr M had authorised this. So he said Monzo should refund Mr M with the £165.65, plus 
interest at 8% simple from 1 June 2022 to the date of payment.
Monzo didnt agree. It said that the payments had been made using a mobile payment 
service token, which Mr M had approved from his device. And this was the only device on 
the account at the time, and Mr M had confirmed no-one else had access to this. The same 
mobile payment service token had been used for genuine transactions, so Monzo believed 
that Mr M had authorised the first transaction himself. The subsequent payments had been 
authenticated using the credentials already on file which Mr M had authorised with the first 
transaction.
Monzo said there was no evidence of a scam having taken place as the investigator had 
said. It explained that the recipient was a billing processor used for discretion by merchants 
providing adult services or content. If Mr M had said hed made the first payment but didnt 
believe he should be charged further, Monzo would have raised a chargeback with the 
merchant for the later payments. But instead, Mr M had denied making any of the payments. 
As no-one else could have authorised the payments, Monzo said it was right to refuse to 
refund Mr M. And even if it had been a Continuous Payment Authority, there was no 
evidence that the merchant hadnt been clear about the payment terms, nor that Mr M hadnt 
fully understood and consented. Monzo asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, because Id come to a different conclusion 
to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity to 
comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulations and who authorised the payments
In my provisional decision, I explained that in these circumstances there are regulations 
which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
Monzo provided evidence which showed that the payments were made using a mobile 
payment service. This uses a type of virtual card that can be used either in store or online. 
The technical evidence here shows that the payments from Mr Ms account were made 
online. The payments were then approved using the device PIN or biometric security such 
as touch or face ID, according to what had been set up on the users device. Monzo 
provided technical evidence to show that the device used for the payments was the only 
device which was active on Mr Ms account at the time, and Mr M had confirmed that no-one 
else had access. The first payment was authorised in this way, and subsequent ones on the 
basis that the credentials were already on file. So it was hard to see how anyone other than 
Mr M could have authorised the transactions.
Mr M sent us app evidence to suggest he was on a bike ride at the time of one of the  
transactions. But there was still some doubt about whether this demonstrated that he was 
cycling at the time of the disputed transaction, so I wasnt persuaded by this. 
So I thought it was more likely than not that Mr M authorised the transactions himself. 
Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) 
I went on to consider whether or not it was most likely that the subsequent payments were 
part of a subscription which Mr M had signed up for, ie a Continuous Payment Authority 
(CPA). A CPA is an agreement for a business to take regular payments from a bank 
account, usually for a service such as a membership, ongoing service, subscription etc. In 
2012, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) issued principles for using CPAs. The OFT doesn't 
exist anymore, but the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has said that these principles still 
apply.
The principles are designed to make sure customers are aware of the financial commitment, 
and they include requirements that when a business is setting up a CPA, it should:
- be transparent about the terms before the customer agrees;
- ensure a customer has given informed consent to the use of a CPA. This includes 
giving positive agreement to the amounts and frequency of the payments. Putting 
these in the terms and conditions, or 'Opt-out' clauses, dont meet this requirement;
- give adequate notice of any changes to the amount or timing of payments;- provide clear information about how to cancel a CPA.
If these requirements arent met, the contract is unenforceable and the customer is entitled 
to a refund. 
I considered these principles in relation to the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. But here, I 
saw no persuasive evidence that there was a CPA at all. The payments were irregular, in 
both amount and date. So it didnt look like, for example, a free trial where regular monthly 
payments are charged in line with terms and conditions. It looked far more like a site which 
the customer uses regularly, not a subscription. And Mr M himself didnt say, for example, 
that hed made one payment but hadnt been properly informed about the ongoing nature of 
the payments. Instead he said he hadnt authorised any of the payments. Ive dealt with that 
above, and have found that the technical evidence indicates its likely that he did authorise 
them. But when Mr M denied making any of the payments, and they dont look like a CPA 
anyway, I could see no reason why Monzo should have considered that the payments were 
a CPA. So Monzo had no reason to take action appropriate for a CPA, such as raising a 
chargeback to find out whether what the merchant had provided to Mr M met the CPA 
principles or not. 
So I found that nothing in the evidence indicated there was a CPA here. It followed that 
Monzo acted fairly in not treating the payments as such.
Monzo pointed out that the merchant name on the debit was a billing processor name, used 
for discretion on adult-content websites. It was possible that Mr M didnt recognise genuine 
transactions because he was expecting the adult-content website name, not the billing 
processor. But if so, Id have expected him to have realised this when Monzo explained.
Finally, when Monzo sent its submissions to this service, it said that it noted that Mr M had 
requested a call back on multiple occasions, but hadnt had one. It said that it couldnt have 
discussed details about the rejection of his claim, but should still have followed up his 
request. So Monzo offered Mr M £25 as a gesture of goodwill for its failure to call him back. I 
found this was fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Monzo accepted the provisional decision.
Mr M didnt reply by the date set for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, I consider my original 
decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that:
- I do not uphold Mr Ms claim for a refund for the disputed transactions;
- Monzo offered Mr M £25 for not having phoned him back. I find this was fair and 
reasonable and I order Monzo Bank Limited to pay Mr M this sum.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman