DRN-2514271
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) havent managed the
collection of his account arrears well.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ss complaint to Creation was that there had been a delay in their response to him and
that they hadnt assisted him to make arrangements to pay his arrears. Ive considered those
issues, but I can see that Mr S has raised some further concerns. Hell need to tell Creation
about those concerns and allow them to consider their response. But if hes subsequently
dissatisfied he can then raise them with this service.
When the payment plan failed in in September 2019 Mr S told Creation he only wanted to
communicate with them in writing. Whilst I understand his desire to have a record of his
complaint progress I dont think Creation were wrong to insist on speaking to him on the
phone. Mr S could speak on the phone, but he simply preferred not to.
Creation have explained that as the previous direct debit had been cancelled they wanted to
speak to Mr S to understand his situation and to see how they could help. I can understand
that it may not have been possible to set up a new direct debit on-line and I dont think it
would be fair for me to interfere in Creations operational procedures that required them to
discuss such issues over the phone. Its for Creation to decide how they communicate with
their customers. Although Id expect them to make provision for those who were unable to
speak on the phone, I dont think they need to make provision for those who are unwilling to.
Creation didnt respond to Mr S for three weeks and they apologised for that. In the
circumstances, I dont think the delay was excessive and Im persuaded that an apology was
sufficient.
Im therefore not asking Creation to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman