DRN-2175484
The complaint
Miss S says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that Satsuma didnt make sure she could afford the loan repayments. This has 
negatively affected her financial situation and her physical and mental health. 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss S between July 
and November 2018.
Loan Date Taken Instalments AmountDate 
Repaid
1 22/07/2018 12 £800 08/10/2018
2 06/09/2018 12 £500 08/10/2018
3 28/11/2018 12 £2,000 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that if Satsuma had looked at her 
credit history it wouldve see that she couldnt sustainably afford the loan repayments. 
Because no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss S complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Miss S 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss S provided when she completed her loan 
application. This showed that Miss S had a monthly income of £1,800 and she had regular 
monthly outgoings of £700. After looking at her credit file Satsuma added around £350 of 
further credit expenditure.  But even with this further expenditure I think its reasonable to 
say that the loan repayments wouldve seemed affordable to Satsuma. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss S mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did at the start of the 
lending relationship were proportionate. 
Miss S took loan 2 a relatively short time after loan 1. And loan 1 was still running when she 
did this. Again, a short time later, she repaid loans 1 and 2 and took loan 3. But loan 3 was 
for a much higher amount. 
These increases in indebtedness makes me think Satsuma couldve realised at that time that 
Miss S may have some longer term financial problems rather than just using the loans to 
help with a temporary cash flow problem. Satsuma shouldve also become concerned about 
whether it knew enough about Miss S true financial situation.
Looking at the checks it did I dont think Satsuma did enough to find out whether Miss S 
could sustainably afford the repayments to the later loans. Particularly the much larger loan 
3, which was a commitment to make significantly increased repayments for 12 months. 
But Miss S hasnt been able to provide any further information that would allow me to say 
with any degree of certainty what Satsuma wouldve seen if it had made further checks. 
Because of this I cant say that the loans wouldve seemed unaffordable to Satsuma if it had 
looked further into Miss S circumstances. So I cant say that it was unreasonable to approve 
loans 2 and 3. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman