DRN-3333583
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr A renewed his motor insurance policy with Advantage. When he had an accident, he tried 
to claim on his policy. Advantage declined his claim, avoided his policy but returned the 
premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr A complained, Advantage said hed answered the question hed been asked about 
driving convictions in the past twelve months incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his 
claim. And as Advantage had to deal with the other drivers claim under The Road Traffic 
Act, it required Mr A to repay its outlay.
But Mr A said Advantage had told him that all he would have to do is pay a higher premium 
and it would deal with the claim. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation as Mr A hadnt disclosed a TS10 fixed 
penalty notice as he was asked to do before renewal. And he believed this was careless. He 
said Advantage didnt need to consider Mr As claim and it could ask Mr A to repay its outlay. 
And, he didnt see any evidence that Advantage had told Mr A that all he would need to do 
was to pay a higher premium and it would deal with the claim.
Mr A doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said that if Advantage had told him it was settling the other drivers claim hed have used his 
own solicitors to defend himself. He said the other driver had driven into the back of his car. 
He said Advantage had led him to believe that it was dealing with the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said hed send in further evidence for me to consider. Im satisfied that hes had ample 
time to do this, but I havent received any further submissions. So I have relied on the 
evidence and arguments available.
Ive firstly considered whether Advantage fairly avoided Mr As policy and declined his claim. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Advantage thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he didnt tell it at renewal of his policy that he had been given a TS10 conviction some 
months earlier. And Ive looked at the question he was asked at renewal and agree he failed 
to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked: 
Please read this pack and tell us before the renewal date if your circumstances have 
changed, or if you or any insured drivers have had an accident, claim, loss, conviction or 
fixed penalty notice in the past 12 months.
And I think this was a clear question asked by Advantage in its renewal pack. Mr A was 
further warned in his policy documents that he needed to tell Advantage of any changes, 
including motoring convictions.
Mr A didnt disclose the TS10 and hes explained that this was because he didnt think he 
needed to. But I think Advantage had clearly asked him to disclose any fixed penalty notices 
accrued within the past twelve months. And I think this means Mr A failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when he didnt disclose the TS10. 
Advantage has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Mr A had 
not made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered him cover at all. This means I am 
satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. 
Mr A said Advantage had told him that it would deal with the claim and all he needed to do 
was to pay an additional premium. But I havent seen any evidence to support this. And I 
think Advantage has shown that it wouldnt offer any cover at all if the conviction had been 
disclosed. 
I also think Mr As misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because I 
think Mr A must have realised that he had the TS10 and I think he didnt take sufficient care 
to disclose it.  
Therefore, Im satisfied Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Advantage does not 
have to deal with his claim following the accident. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Advantage to rely on it to avoid Mr As policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. 
The other driver made a claim against Mr A and I think Advantage was obliged to deal with it 
under the provisions of The Road Traffic Act. It asked Mr A for information about the 
accident, which he provided. And then Advantage decided to settle the other drivers claim in 
full on a without prejudice basis. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr A the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr A to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr A has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that Advantage asked for Mr As version of events. But it thought that it would have 
to disclose the voidance if the matter went to court. And it thought this would affect Mr As 
credibility in court and lead to an unsuccessful outcome. So it settled the other drivers claim 
in full to avoid further costs. 
I think Advantage is entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions. And I think it did 
this fairly and reasonably after considering the evidence it had. Advantage is then entitled by 
CIDRA and the policys terms and conditions to recover from Mr A its outlay made after the 
misrepresentation. I can see that its prepared to arrange a repayment plan to clear this debt. 
So I cant say it did anything wrong in this.
Advantage settled the other drivers claim on a without prejudice basis. So Mr A is free to 
pursue matters further at his own cost if he so wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman