DRN-4025262
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed his accounts. He would 
like an explanation as to why this was done and is concerned about how this might impact 
him in the future.
What happened
Mr F had three accounts with RBS for a number of years. In March 2022 RBS wrote to him 
to say that it had decided to no longer offer him banking services. It gave him 60 days to 
move his accounts to another bank - outside its banking group. It didnt block the accounts.
Mr F wasnt happy about this and complained to RBS. He also wasnt happy about its 
service and said he experienced long wait times when calling and also got disconnected 
during one of the calls and didnt receive a call back.
RBS apologised for the service it provided particularly regarding the calls and paid Mr F £75 
compensation. But it didnt take back its decision to close the accounts. It said this was in 
line with its terms and conditions and due to its legal and regulatory obligations. It said it 
would not be able to give Mr F the precise reasons behind its decision. 
Mr F responded to say that he was disappointed at RBSs refusal to provide reasons for the 
account closures. He asked it to confirm if this was to do with the fact that the accounts 
werent used frequently or if it was to do with the fact that he was no longer a UK resident. 
He said he did not want to take the risk of the closures being due to an error on RBSs part. 
He said he would keep only around £8 out of the £75 for the cost of the calls.
 
RBS didnt provide a further explanation and said it hadnt made an error. It asked Mr F to 
keep the full £75. 
Mr F then complained to us. He said he was concerned the account closures might prejudice 
his financial reputation or creditworthiness. He said if RBS wasnt able to tell him why it 
closed his accounts, hed be happy for it to provide this information to us for us to verify that 
no errors had been made. But if an error was made, hed like it rectified. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. RBS did 
not provide its full file to show why the accounts were closed and in the absence of this 
information our investigator couldnt conclude it had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. He said it should pay an additional £75 compensation to Mr F. 
RBS agreed with our investigator but Mr F didnt. He said his goal was to find out the reason 
for his account closures and to ensure this wasnt down to an error by RBS including an 
unfounded suspicion of fraud. He said he would rather a confirmation that his accounts were 
closed correctly rather than any compensation. He added that he was disappointed that we 
werent able to compel RBS to provide the relevant information. He referred to a case in the 
media where our organisation determined that a bank didnt have sufficient evidence to 
place a black mark against a customers credit file and awarded compensation. 
Mr F also said he isnt able to check his credit score as he is not a UK resident but is 
concerned about the impact on it as he frequently interacts with UK companies. He was also 
concerned that accepting the ombudsmans decision would preclude him from taking further 
action against RBS in court and wants us to confirm whether the reason behind his account 
closures could have negative consequences on him. 
Mr F asked for an ombudsmans decision and the matter was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. These obligations are ongoing. To comply with its obligations RBS may need to 
review an account and/or restrict its customers access. The terms and conditions of Mr Fs 
accounts also permit RBS to review an account. This means RBS is entitled to review an 
account at any time. 
A bank is also generally entitled to close an account providing its in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. In this instance the terms of Mr Fs accounts say that in certain 
instances RBS can close accounts with immediate effect or by providing 60 days notice. 
And it doesnt have to provide a reason for doing so.
 
I understand Mr F wants RBS to explain the reason it decided to close his accounts. But 
RBS doesnt have to disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts.  Its 
under no obligation to tell Mr F the reasons behind the account closure as much as hed like 
to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr F this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Turning to the banks decision to close Mr Fs accounts, RBS needs to provide information to 
this service so we can fairly decide a complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, 
RBS has failed to provide information about why it closed Mr Fs accounts and the reasons 
why it no longer wanted to offer him banking services. Ive considered what RBS has said 
about why it wont provide further information to our service about the reasons it closed 
Mr Fs accounts. This service has the power to request evidence of this nature under the 
dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im not persuaded the reasons given by RBS exclude it 
from complying with these rules. So, in this particular case, because of the lack of 
information I cant be satisfied that RBS has treated Mr F fairly when it blocked his accounts. 
Taking this into account, I agree with the investigator that RBS should pay Mr F 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the bank closing his accounts.
Mr F doesnt think it is fair that RBS has not provided its full file to us so that we can check 
whether the closure was the result of an error. I appreciate the frustration this must be 
causing Mr F. But as I said above, I am upholding the complaint due to the lack of 
information provided by RBS. 
Mr F is concerned about the potential impact the closures may have on him. I appreciate this 
must be distressing for him but I should clarify that I can only award compensation for 
something that has already happened (and its future impact) and not something that may or 
may not happen in the future. Mr F said he hasnt tried to open any other accounts and as he 
is not a not a UK resident he isnt able to check his credit score. As Mr F hasnt tried to open 
another UK account it isnt possible to say that the account closures have or will impact his 
ability to open other accounts in the future. And I havent seen any evidence that RBS has added any fraud markers to his credit file. So Im not minded to award further compensation 
for this.
Having considered the impact on Mr F and taking into consideration the available evidence, 
Im satisfied that the closure of his accounts has caused Mr F some distress and 
inconvenience. Therefore, I think he should receive compensation for this. Im satisfied that 
the additional £75 (£150 in total) compensation is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr F is concerned that if he accepts this decision he may not be able to complain again if he 
does discover that the closures have impacted him. As I said above there is no evidence at 
the moment that these have impacted Mr F in terms of his ability to open other UK accounts. 
But if in the future Mr F discovers that he has been impacted and has information that wasnt 
available to him at the time he made this complaint, he may be able to bring a further 
complaint against RBS. Mr F has also asked about whether accepting this decision will 
preclude him from bringing legal proceedings against RBS at some point in the future. This 
isnt something I can advise him on- he will have to obtain his own independent legal advice. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay Mr F £75 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. This is in 
addition to the £75 it credited to his account before it was closed. So £150 in total. If Mr F 
didnt withdraw the full £75 at the time it must now pay him the balance in addition to the £75 
I have awarded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman