DRN-1936725
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) caused avoidable delays in 
paying his pension to him; and that the customer service he received in general was very 
poor. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr B contacted Aviva and explained that hed like to cash in his pension. 
During this call, he was given incorrect information. He was told that hed need to transfer to 
another policy that allowed him to drawdown his pension, as the current policy didnt allow 
this. Aviva then sent the relevant forms to him. 
Over the course of the following month, Mr B had a number of telephone conversation with 
Aviva. During these calls, Mr B explained that his name had changed, and he was now living 
in America. He was therefore seeking clarity on the process to get everything updated so 
that he could cash in his pension. 
The relevant forms hed need to complete and identification documents hed need to provide 
were explained, in addition to them needing to see documentation detailing Mr Bs bank 
account  as the funds would be paid by bank transfer. 
It eventually became apparent that Mr B had been given the wrong information in the 
previous month, with regards to how he could access his pension. He was told that he could 
take a lump sum (without the need to transfer to another policy) once his details had been 
updated.  
Mr B also explained that he was in poor health and this was why he was able to access his 
pension early. Aviva explained that theyd need a letter from his doctor confirming his 
medical condition. And Mr B clearly stated that he didnt want Aviva to call him  unless this 
was agreed beforehand.
He explained that this was due in part to the time difference, but also because he gets 
charged for incoming international calls. Aviva confirmed that theyd make a note of his 
request.
Aviva provided Mr B the PO Box address that he was to send his documents to. And he was 
told that he could send everything together (regarding the change of his details and cashing 
in his pension). They explained that once they receive the documentation needed, it should 
take a few weeks for them to then send his quote to him. 
And once the documents were completed and returned to them, it would take 10 to 17 days 
for the money to be processed and paid into his account. Aviva then ran through the tax hed 
need to pay after the tax free cash element had been taken into consideration.   
Over the course of the next few days (towards the end of July), there were more calls 
between Mr B and Aviva. In these calls, Mr B sought clarification about how to complete the 
forms and what to include in his covering letter. He also checked the postal address hed 
been given. As the documents needed to be signed for, the American postal service wanted 
a non PO Box address. He explained that although hed now sent everything, he had to 
search online for an alternative address that he could use instead. Aviva confirmed that the 
alternative address hed found, was a valid address, but also explained that the PO Box 
address was also valid, and post received there could be signed for. 
Aviva explained how they would send the fund to Mr B (once theyd received his 
documentation and made the relevant changes to his personal details). 
At the end of July, Aviva received the relevant documentation and eight working days later 
they issued Mr Bs retirement quote, which Mr B needed to sign and return to them. 
However, Aviva attempted to call Mr B even though theyd agreed not to and it hadnt 
amended his details correctly on their system. By way of an apology Aviva offered Mr B £75. 
In August, Mr B spoke to Aviva and explained that the forms hed received had the incorrect 
details on them and that it wasnt clear what he needed to do with them. He explained that 
Aviva were asking for information hed already provided to them. This was eventually 
resolved and by the end of August, Aviva received Mr Bs completed forms and nine working 
days later, they attempted to make the payment to Mr Bs bank account, but it was rejected/ 
returned. 
A week later, Mr B still hadnt received payment, so he emailed Aviva with amended swift 
code and bank details.
After looking into the complaint raised, Aviva apologised for the service they had given to 
Mr B and explained that his feedback had been passed to the relevant team managers so 
that improvements could be made. Arrangements were also made for a payment of £150 to 
be paid to Mr B by cheque and they explained that an amount would be added to cover the 
currency conversion charges for this payment.
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred this complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the matter 
and concluded that Aviva had reached the right outcome. Acknowledging that errors were 
made by Aviva and explaining how Mr B had contributed to the delays in him receiving the 
payment. Our investigators view was that the £150 offered by way of an apology was 
reasonable. In considering Mr Bs point that he felt hed lost out financially due to:
the cost of postage; 
the cost of his phone calls; and 
having been paid in pound sterling. 
They concluded that there was no financial loss suffered by Mr B due to Avivas actions.  
Mr B disagreed with this outcome, maintaining he had lost out financially and that the £150 
offered was not sufficient. This has therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a detailed account of what happened from his perspective, and this has 
been helpful. Although I wont be responding to each specific point hes made, I can assure 
him Ive considered everything that has been shared with this Service. 
Potential delaysIn Mr Bs initial call to Aviva in June, he was given incorrect information, in that he was told 
hed need to transfer to another policy in order to receive his lumpsum payment. However, 
this didnt impact the timeline. Upon receipt of the forms, Mr B called Aviva in early 
July 2019. In this call Aviva explained that he was given incorrect information and that he 
wouldnt need to transfer to another policy. The overall process and next steps were also 
discussed in detail. 
I can see that there were a number of calls between Mr B and Aviva in July. But in each call 
Aviva were either explaining the process again to Mr B (at his request) or providing him their 
address. I understand Mr B has said he had some difficulty with the address provided, but 
having checked the address, I can confirm Aviva provided it correctly. If Mr B had difficulty, I 
dont think Aviva can be held responsible for that. 
Upon receipt of the documents needed, Aviva sent the retirement quote to Mr B eight 
working days later, well within the ten working days theyd quoted to him. 
The evidence shows Aviva provided the correct information to Mr B about how to get his 
funds. I cannot therefore agree that Avivas actions caused any delays to the process.
I can see that Aviva received all the information needed by the end of August 2019. And they 
first attempted to make this payment on 10 September, nine working days later. As the 
wrong information had been provided to Aviva, this payment was unsuccessful.
On 17 September, Mr B sent a different swift code and bank details to Aviva. Using these 
alternative bank details, the payment was successfully made by the end of the month, within 
nine working days of the new instruction.  Both attempts were made well within the 10 to 17 
days Aviva had quoted Mr B. I cannot therefore say Aviva were slow in processing this 
payment. 
Financial loss
Mr B has explained that Aviva making the payment in pounds sterling has resulted in a 
financial loss, once the lump sum was converted into American dollars. I have looked at a 
copy of the Aviva policy. It clearly states under section 7 that all payments shall be made in 
sterling in the United Kingdom. And Aviva has confirmed that it is their policy that all 
payments made are made in pound sterling. 
Mr B has said that he thinks this is a stupid policy and hed like Aviva to pay the shortfall he 
feels he has suffered due to the exchange rate in America.
With reference to the cheque Aviva sent to Mr B for £150, Mr B has explained that he 
doesnt feel this is a high enough offer. Further he has explained that depositing this cheque 
with his bank would incur charges and the exchange rate isnt very good.
With reference to both of these points, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Aviva 
responsible for the rules and practices of the banks in America. Nor can they be held 
responsible for the exchange rate in America, when converting from pound sterling to 
American dollars. It is for these reasons, that I do not think Aviva need to take any further 
action with regards to this.
Mr B has provided this Service with copies of his phone bill to illustrate the cost incurred to 
him throughout this process. He has explained that when receiving calls from Aviva, he 
incurred charges and has had to make several calls to Aviva also. In considering the calls he made to Aviva, I cannot see that calls were made due to Aviva having done something 
wrong. 
As I have explained, Mr B sometimes called Aviva back to cover off points he had already 
discussed with them. It wouldnt therefore be fair to ask Aviva to meet these costs. In 
addition, the other calls he made, he would have needed to make in order to get his 
instructions (to make the payment) actioned. Having looked at the copies of his phone bills, it 
doesnt show charges he received as a result of Aviva calling him. I cannot therefore direct 
Aviva to reimburse Mr B for the charges he has described.  
Stress and inconvenience caused
It has been acknowledged by Aviva that they didnt provide the best service to Mr B. They 
called him, even though hed made it clear that they should engage with him by email or 
post. And the retirement quote form Aviva sent to Mr B unfortunately had his name and 
address incorrectly displayed. And Mr B was asked for information he had already provided, 
which he had to point out to Aviva. 
Having listened to the call recordings and read Mr Bs complaint points, he has clearly been 
frustrated by this, and I do understand why this would be the case. But I can also see that 
none of this caused any delays to the process. At every stage, Aviva issued documents on 
time. And upon receipt of information, they processed it well within the timeframes quoted to 
Mr B. 
Aviva has already offered £150 to Mr B by cheque, in acknowledgement of their service not 
meeting the standard expected. And Im aware that Mr B doesnt believe this is adequate. 
He has explained that he feels he should receive a financial award for the stress he went 
through, with full consideration to him being in serious ill health. 
Ive listened to the call recordings between Aviva and Mr B. He often asked the same 
questions to different call handlers. On a few occasions he spoke over them when they were 
explaining next steps. It is likely that he missed important information that was shared; 
resulting in him calling multiple times. 
Mr B was also on occasion, rude to Aviva staff. This understandably wouldnt have helped 
the situation. So, I must take this into account in addition to the other points raised. 
Mr B has also explained that he would like the time he has spent dealing with this to be 
taken into consideration. We dont typically make compensatory awards for the 
complainants time spent, based on an hourly employment rate. Also, I have not been able to 
identify any delays caused by Aviva. They carried out all of their actions well within their 
timeframe, which they communicated to Mr B more than once.
In considering how to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused, I must 
consider the severity of the errors made by Aviva and take the above points into account. On 
balance, Avivas offer of £150 for any distress or inconvenience caused, was fair and 
reasonable.  
In summary, I understand Mr B is likely to be disappointed by my decision, but for the 
reasons Ive explained, I will not be asking Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have provided, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman