DRN-2903472
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited only paid part of the claim he made under his 
home contents insurance policy and didnt renew the policy for another year.
What happened
Mr P had home contents insurance with Ageas. Mr P renewed this policy each year through 
the broker he purchased it from originally. In July 2019 Mr Ps home was burgled, with 
jewellery, watches, coins, a mobile phone and sunglasses being stolen. Mr P made a claim 
with Ageas, through his broker, and Ageas appointed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster 
initially estimated the value of the stolen jewellery, watches and coins as £80,000. 
Ageas agreed to pay for the phone and sunglasses, but wouldnt pay for the jewellery, 
watches or coins. This was because Mr P hadnt told Ageas that in April 2018 hed begun 
keeping most of these at home, after previously storing them in a bank safety deposit box. In 
other words, Ageas said Mr P made a careless misrepresentation when he didnt tell it about 
this change of circumstances when he renewed his policy in late 2018. 
Ageas said if Mr P had told it about this and sought additional cover as he should have, it 
would have adjusted the overall sum insured and required Mr P to install a home safe. And if 
Mr P hadnt installed a safe, it would have excluded cover for theft and attempted theft of 
jewellery from his policy. Ageas also said the stolen coins werent covered because the 
policy terms said the most Ageas would pay for fine art, antiques and collectables (FAA, 
which the policy defined as including coins) was the amount declared by Mr P as shown on 
the policy schedule, and it showed £0 for FAA. 
Through his broker, Mr P complained to Ageas about its claim decision and claim handling. 
Ageas said its claim decision was correct, as it was entitled to retrospectively apply the 
jewellery theft exclusion. And that it hadnt made errors in handling Mr Ps claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint about Ageass claim decision to our service. 
Mr P said Ageas had unfairly decided not to renew his policy, leaving it difficult for him to get 
insurance elsewhere. 
In later communication with our service, Mr P said hed told the loss adjuster hed get a 
jeweller to value the jewellery, watches and coins based on photographs. Mr P passed this 
valuation to Ageas in September 2019, and it showed the jewellery and watches were 
valued at £42,640 and the coins at £16,550. Mr P said the policy schedule limited jewellery 
claims to £75,000 and his claim was below this so should be paid in full. Mr P accepted he 
didnt tell Ageas about bringing the jewellery, watches and coins home from the bank, 
because he didnt know how valuable they were, but said it didnt matter as he was insured 
up to £75,000. And Mr P reiterated he was unhappy Ageas hadnt renewed his policy. 
Ageas told our service a safe was required based on the total value of jewellery and watches 
at risk, including any not originally kept in the bank. And if had Mr P made full disclosure 
when he renewed his policy in September 2018, it would have rated the risk based on that 
total value and applied the safe requirement. And if a safe wasnt installed, it would have 
removed Mr Ps cover for jewellery and watches. 
Ageas went on to say the policy schedule showed Mr Ps total home contents value as 
£100,000, excluding the jewellery, watches and coins previously kept in the bank. So the 
overall value at risk was misrepresented and Ageas didnt have the opportunity to correctly 
rate the risk and apply the appropriate premium, or to be aware of the theft risk presented by 
Mr P. And the safe threshold of £75,000 didnt give Mr P free cover up to that amount 
without correct disclosure.
Based on all the evidence from both Ageas and Mr P, our investigator ultimately said Ageas 
should pay Mr P £2,000 for the stolen jewellery and watches, but could reduce this 
proportionately if Ageas would have charged Mr P higher premiums had he not made a 
misrepresentation. 
Both Ageas and Mr P asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for consideration. 
I thought Ageas had unfairly applied the safe exclusion, and Ageas agreed. I asked Ageas 
to provide copies of the 2018 renewal documents and to confirm under what terms it would 
have offered the policy to Mr P had he told it about the jewellery, watches and coins he 
began keeping at home in 2018. 
Ageas provided the renewal documents. And said it would have charged Mr P £1,211.53 in 
premiums instead of the £769.32 it actually did charge him. And that it would have set a 
higher overall sum insured of £107,620 made up of higher cover limits for general contents 
(£46,000), FAA (£16,530) and jewellery and watches (£45,090), subject to a single article 
limit of £5,000 for unspecified items. 
On 8 June 2021 I issued my provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy) and when 
renewing one. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt tell it about the items hed brought home from the bank in April 2018. 
I should make it clear that when Mr Ps policy renewed each year, a new consumer contract 
started and he had to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation each time this 
happened. About a month before Mr Ps policy was due for renewal in September 2018, Ageas sent the renewal documents to Mr Ps broker - who was acting on his behalf  and 
asked the broker to forward the documents to Mr P. 
Ive looked at the renewal documents Ageas asked the broker to give Mr P. And they dont 
say anywhere that the sums insured needed to represent the full replacement cost of Mr Ps 
contents, FAA, jewellery and watches. But I think Ageas took reasonable steps to make Mr P 
aware, through the broker who was acting on Mr Ps behalf, that Mr P should check to make 
sure the renewal documents accurately reflected his current circumstances and 
requirements, otherwise his cover and any claim might be affected. 
I say that because the covering letter Ageas sent the broker dated 20 August 2018 said 
Please find attached the renewal documents to forward to your client. And went on to say 
Check the renewal policy schedule and statement of facts carefully to ensure all the details 
are correct and fully reflect your clients current circumstances/requirements Please also 
check the sums insured shown are still adequate for your clients current requirements 
Contact me as soon as possible if any changes are required or if there is any information we 
should be made aware of, such as planned building works or periods of unoccupancy. That 
way we can issue revised renewal documentation if necessary.
Ageas included a policy schedule as part of the renewal documents it asked Mr Ps broker to 
forward to Mr P. The policy schedule said Mr P had a total of £100,026 unspecified contents 
cover. And the statement of facts that formed part of the same policy schedule document 
said:
Please read and check the information in this Statement of Facts carefully. This information 
is based on answers to questions we have asked (or previously asked) and information 
given to us by you when applying for or renewing your policy, along with assumptions we 
have made. It is very important that you check that all of this information is complete and 
accurate. If any of the information is not complete and/or accurate:
we may cancel your policy and refuse to pay any claim, and/or
we may not pay any claim in full, and/or
we may revise the premium and/or change any excess, or
the extent of the cover may be affected.
If any information is incomplete or incorrect you should contact your insurance intermediary. 
If you do not, in the event of a claim, you may find that your rights under the policy are 
affected. We reserve the right to refuse the insurance contract if any amended or additional 
information disclosed makes the risk unacceptable to us.
The statement of facts explained that Based on the information you have provided to us the 
unspecified contents sum insured as shown on the schedule, under Section 2  Contents, 
includes:
Contents (general) £98,026
Fine Art, Antiques & Collectables £0
Jewellery & Watches £2,000 (subject to a single article limit £5,000).
And it went on to say To ensure that your cover will continue to accurately reflect the value 
of your possessions it is important that you make us aware of any changes to the above 
amounts.
The renewal documents Ageas sent Mr Ps broker also included a Policyholder Notice, 
which said at the top Please read this information carefully and keep it safe with your policy documents. And in the Before renewing your policy section, went on to say Please check 
your Renewal Schedule and Statement of Facts documents very carefully to ensure they are 
complete, correct and fully reflect your current circumstances/requirements The insurers 
need to be informed about any changes to the information shown or if the information is 
incorrect or incomplete. If they are not informed this may affect your ability to claim under the 
policy.
Mr P doesnt dispute that in April 2018 he brought home a significant number of valuables 
from his bank. This was a significant change in Mr Ps circumstances which meant the sums 
insured set out in his September 2018 renewal documentation no longer reflected his current 
circumstances.  Mr P says he didnt tell Ageas about this change because he didnt know 
how valuable the items hed brought home were. As I say, the standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. And I think a reasonable consumer ought to have realised the need to 
tell Ageas about his change in circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Ageas to conclude Mr P didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he renewed his insurance in 2018.
Ive thought about whether Mr Ps misrepresentation made a difference to the terms Ageas 
offered him at renewal in 2018. This is important, as it can only be a qualifying 
misrepresentation if Ageas wouldnt have offered the policy at all or if it would have offered it 
on different terms. Ageas says that had Mr P told it the full replacement cost of his jewellery, 
watches and coins at this time, it would have charged more for the policy and set higher 
cover limits. I accept this and think this means Mr P made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
And I think it is appropriate for it to be categorised as a careless misrepresentation, because 
it was an oversight on Mr Ps part, as opposed to a deliberate attempt to mislead Ageas. 
In these circumstances, CIDRA says the remedy available to Ageas is to pay a claim 
settlement in proportion to the premiums the policyholder actually paid. This means Ageas is 
entitled to apply a proportionate settlement to Mr Ps whole claim amount.  As a result of not 
telling Ageas about his change in circumstances, Mr P paid 63.5% of the premiums he 
should have. This means Ageas is only obliged to pay 63.5% of Mr Ps claim.
However, I think CIDRA gives Ageas the option to decide whether to apply revised terms to 
the policy as well as settling the claim proportionately. And it is clear from what Ageas has 
done that it has decided not to do this, as it has used the existing policy limits for jewellery 
and watches and FAA. However, I dont think it produces a fair and reasonable outcome for 
Ageas to do this and then only pay a proportion of these limits. This is because it is Ageass 
choice not to change the policy terms and apply revised limits. And I think if it wants to apply 
a proportionate settlement to the limit, it would need to apply it to the revised limit it would 
have set had it chosen to apply the revised terms. Otherwise, I think Ageas is benefiting from 
a proportionate settlement based on the fact Mr P should have paid a higher premium, 
without recognising the fact he would also have had higher limits. 
So I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint Ageas should apply a 
proportionate settlement to Mr Ps claim and then apply the cover limits that existed for 
jewellery and watches (£2,000) and FAA (£0) when Mr P renewed his policy in 2018. This 
produces a settlement amount of £2,000.
However, this means Ageas has paid more than it needed to for the stolen mobile phone 
and sunglasses Mr P claimed for. I say this because I think it was entitled to pay only a 
proportion of these because of Mr Ps qualifying misrepresentation. But Ageas has already 
paid Mr P £330 for the stolen mobile phone and sunglasses, which represented their full 
replacement costs. Therefore, I think Ageas is only obliged to pay 63.5% of these amounts. 
This means it was entitled to pay £209.55, whereas it has paid £330. So Ageas has paid 
£120.45 more than it needed to for these items. Therefore, I think Ageas is entitled to deduct this amount from the £2,000 due to Mr P for the jewellery and watches. That means Ageas 
should pay Mr P £1,879.55. 
Its not clear whether Mr P would have used this money to replace the stolen items, but 
nonetheless I think Ageas should have paid it to Mr P. And so I think Ageas should add 8% 
simple interest to the £1,879.55 to compensate Mr P for not having use of it. The evidence 
Ive seen suggests Ageas declined Mr Ps claim for jewellery and watches on 18 October 
2019. Therefore Ageas should add 8% simple interest from 18 October 2019 to the date of 
settlement.
Though not the crux of his complaint, Mr P is also unhappy Ageas didnt offer to renew his 
policy in September 2019. Whether it offered Mr P a renewal was a commercial decision 
Ageas was entitled to make. But it still needed to treat him fairly. So, Ive thought about this. 
I can see Ageas told Mr Ps broker it wasnt offering Mr P a renewal because of the overall 
sums insured and the ongoing claim. Given this, I think it was fair for Ageas to decide not to 
offer a renewal. The renewal was due on 18 September 2019 and on 6 September 2019 
Ageas told Mr P, through his broker, that it wouldnt offer renewal terms. That means Ageas 
gave Mr P twelve days notice, and I think thats a reasonable amount of notice for an annual 
insurance policy.
In Mr Ps response to my provisional decision, he reiterated that his claim should be paid in 
full because it was less than £75,000, that the loss adjustor said the claim value was 
£80,000 but that was incorrect, and that a safe wasnt required if the value of jewellery was 
less than £75,000. 
Ageas confirmed it didnt have any further comments or evidence to provide, other than to 
highlight that the policy terms and conditions set out what the sums insured selected by 
Mr P should represent, as they said:
Contents 
The amount you insure contents for must be sufficient to pay for the cost of replacing them 
as new.
Fine art, antiques and collectables
The amount you insure fine art, antiques and collectibles for should be the current market 
value.
To protect you against the additional costs of inflation which may make your sums insured 
inadequate, where you have chosen cover under Section 1, Buildings and/or Section 2, 
Contents we will adjust the sum insured for buildings and the sum insured for contents, but 
not fine art, antiques and collectibles or jewellery and watches each month in accordance 
with the movement in the following indices
Im now in a position to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.  
In response to my provisional decision, Mr P says his claim should be paid in full since it was 
less than £75,000. But Mr P was never entitled to receive a claim settlement of £42,640 for the stolen jewellery and watches and £16,550 for the stolen coins, as hes suggested. Thats 
because the policy limits that existed when Mr P renewed his policy in 2018 were £2,000 for 
jewellery and watches and £0 for FAA (which the policy defines as including coins). Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Mr P asked for these limits to be increased when he renewed the policy 
or that he paid the additional premium for it. And in my provisional decision, I set out what I 
thought Ageas should fairly pay Mr P in settlement of his claim, given the particular 
circumstances.
In his response, Mr P also said the loss adjustor incorrectly valued the claim at £80,000 and 
that a safe wasnt required if the jewellerys value was less than £75,000. I acknowledged 
and addressed these points in my provisional decision. I said the loss adjuster initially 
estimated the value of the stolen jewellery, watches and coins as £80,000, but that Mr P 
went on to have them valued by a jeweller, which showed the jewellery and watches were 
valued at £42,640 and the coins at £16,550. And I said Id told Ageas it had unfairly applied 
the safe exclusion, and it agreed with this. So the safe exclusion isnt being applied here. 
For these reasons, Mr Ps further comments havent changed the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision.
 
In its response to my provisional decision, Ageas highlighted that the policy terms and 
conditions set out what the sums insured selected by Mr P should represent. I explained in 
my provisional decision that Mr P bringing home a significant number of valuables from his 
bank in April 2018 was a significant change in his circumstances. This meant the sums 
insured set out in his September 2018 renewal documentation no longer reflected his current 
circumstances.  And I went on to explain why I thought it was reasonable for Ageas to 
conclude Mr P didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
renewed his insurance in 2018. I dont think what Ageas highlighted in its response to my 
provisional decision is at odds with this, or that it changes the outcome here.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Ageas should pay Mr P £1,879.55 in settlement 
of his claim, and that it should add to this amount 8% simple interest from 18 October 2019 
to the date of settlement.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr P £1,879.55.
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 18 October 2019 to the date of actual 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman