DRN-2691133
The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr M between July 
2011 and September 2011. Mr Ms loan details were as following:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 15/07/2011 22/09/2011 6 £265.00 £132.50
2 18/09/2011 27/09/2011 6 £515.00 £358.20
When loan two was taken out, loan one was still running, and the two loans would have 
overlapped for three months. Mr M repaid both loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Mr M said that he had further 
loans from Lending Stream that it hadnt disclosed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M thought he had over 20 loans with Lending Stream in 2016 and 2017. He has provided 
us and Lending Stream with his bank statements where I can see that there are deposits 
and repayments marked Lending Stream. But Lending Stream said it approved just two 
loans for Mr M. It said his other borrowing was with its sister company. 
Mr M disagrees with this and thinks that Lending Stream is trying to avoid his complaint. But 
I think if Mr M did have other loans from Lending Stream he would have copies of the loan 
agreements or other evidence of them. He hasnt provided us with any evidence to show that 
the loans were from Lending Stream rather than its sister company. 
And weve asked Lending Stream repeatedly to check its records that just the two loans 
were approved. It has checked and has told us that the references on Mr Ms bank 
statements are for loans with its sister company. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of 
Lending Streams searches. So I can only look at the two loans it approved for Mr M in 2011. 
I can see that the loans from Lending Streams sister company are the subject of a separate 
complaint and I cant consider that here. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Lending Stream asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. Mr M said his monthly income was between £2,800 and £2,900. He said 
his monthly outgoings totalled about £2,050. This left Mr M with a monthly disposable 
income of between about £780 and £860.  
Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his 
history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided or the information Lending Stream 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
Mr M was saying. 
So I think Lending Streams affordability checks were proportionate and sufficient. The loans 
looked affordable from these checks. So I cant say it was wrong for Lending Stream to have 
provided them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman