DRN-3690256
The complaint
Mr M and Miss S complain that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) have unfairly 
handled a claim under their car insurance policy.
Mr M has led the complaint with this Service so to keep things simple Ill largely just refer to 
him throughout. Any reference to Skyfire includes any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In February 2022 Miss S was involved in a car accident. Mr M made a claim under 
the policy which Skyfire accepted. 
Mr M says Skyfire booked in several appointments with garages that would be 
unable to complete necessary works for an unroadworthy vehicle.
Skyfire said the vehicle was repaired and returned to Mr M in late May 2022. It was 
then returned to Skyfire around a month later in June 2022 for further investigation. 
Eventually being passed back to Mr M several weeks later.
Mr M made a complaint to Skyfire for unnecessary delays and for poor 
communication. And he said the vehicle was deteriorating in the elements as a result. 
Mr M said both he and Miss S have been inconvenienced by Skyfires actions, 
missing work opportunities and spending increased fuel costs with their courtesy car. 
Alongside this, he has described the anxiety and distress it has caused.
Mr M since raised concerns that the courtesy car would be taken away. And that the 
repairs werent finished, listing various issues including paintwork and chips, issues 
with an airbag light and trip meter, and the vehicle pulled to one side.
Skyfire considered these complaints and acknowledged delays in booking a visit with 
a garage, but said this was unavoidable due to demand in the industry. It said the 
outstanding issues related to brakes and tyres were pre-incident, as noted on the 
vehicles last MOT. An issue with an airbag light was not related to the accident, and 
a concern about MPG readings would resolve itself. 
Skyfire said it had offered to write the vehicle off as Mr M had said he felt unsafe 
driving it, but as this offer was declined the responsibility to repair the outstanding 
issues sat with Mr M. And that returning the courtesy car was in line with its policy 
terms as their own car had been repaired and returned. But it said its service had 
been lacking in places, so it awarded £250 in compensation to recognise this. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and said Skyfires offer was fair. 
She said an independent report and comments from an engineer suggested the 
remaining damage was pre-existing and therefore not the responsibility of Skyfire. 
She agreed there were issues with claims handling, and as a result the £250 
compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr M disagreed, providing a detailed response reiterating his concerns about Skyfires 
actions and the impact on him and Miss S. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Skyfires offer of compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms submissions to this Service are very detailed. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of this Service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Mr M has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by all parties.
Vehicle repairs  outstanding issues
When considering an insurance claim, wed typically expect an insurer to just repair 
the damage related to the insured peril in question, unless the unconnected damage 
prevents an effective and lasting repair elsewhere. 
Mr M says that there are various issues that Skyfire still needs to repair and that the 
vehicle doesnt feel safe. These have been listed previously so I wont repeat them.
Skyfire has provided independent engineer evidence that states these issues werent 
claim related or to the workmanship carried out during the repair. Mr M has seen 
these reports and refutes their findings. But hes provided no expert opinion or 
evidence to support this belief. The report is detailed and well-reasoned. 
Taking this into account alongside the other evidence including the previous MOT, 
Im more persuaded by the experts opinion that the outstanding damage was not 
related to the accident or Skyfires agents.
So, Im satisfied Skyfire met its obligations in repairing the vehicle in line with the 
policy, and Im not directing it to complete any further repairs.
Claims handling
Skyfire has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Skyfire has acknowledged that it hasnt handled this claim as it shouldve  
apologising for this and awarding compensation. So, I see no reason to go over each 
issue in detail again here. And instead I have to determine if its offer of compensation 
is fair in the circumstances.
Mr M has described Miss S having trauma from the incident itself. And while I have 
no doubt such an experience would have a lasting impact on an individual, I cannot 
reasonably hold Skyfire responsible for such an impact, nor the frustration of having 
to make an insurance claim.
It is only the delays, lack of communication and poor customer service that I will look 
to compensate them for. Im satisfied Mr M and Miss S have felt the impact of delays 
and communication issues to their claim in places  including alleged comments from 
garage staff. But, for the reasons given above Im not persuaded Skyfire is responsible for the 
outstanding issues. So, I dont hold Skyfire responsible for all of the back and forth 
between parties.
So, taking the life of the claim into account, while I think Skyfire didnt meet its 
obligations overall, Im satisfied the compensatory sum of £250 is a fair and 
reasonable one.
Mr M has said the experience has caused them great financial difficulty due the 
increased petrol costs of the courtesy car and missed work opportunities. Increased 
petrol costs arent covered by the policy, nor are time for appointments or dealing 
with claims. And for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Skyfires offer already 
reasonably compensates them for its mistakes in handling this claim. 
My final decision
Im satisfied the offer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has made is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, and direct it to pay Mr M and Miss S £250 in compensation (if it has not 
already done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman