DRN-2507920
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
I understand Mr M and Mrs M applied for a mortgage with Halifax in 1990 and bought a PPI 
policy at around the same time. The policy covered Mr M for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Mr M and Mrs M say they didnt want PPI on the mortgage because interest rates were high 
at the time and they couldnt afford it. They say Mr B told the mortgage adviser: It is a 
categoric no.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Mr M and Mrs M 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this decision.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr M and Mrs M they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Halifax hasnt been able to give us much paperwork from the time. But this 
isnt unusual for a sale that took place around 30 years ago, and businesses arent required 
to keep records indefinitely. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms recollections of the sale arent detailed. And those recollections are now 
also around 30 years old. But they say Mr M emphatically said no to the PPI.  
Mr M and Mrs M also say Mr M developed a number of health issues from around the mid-
1990s and, if theyd known they had PPI, they wouldve used it then. They say this to back-
up their argument that the cover was added without their knowledge or consent. But 
information Halifax has sent us shows the policy was cancelled in January 1992. That 
means I dont think there was any cover in place for Mr M to use when his health problems 
started. 
To uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint that the PPI was added to their account by Halifax 
without their knowledge or consent, Id have to have information to make me think this is 
more likely than not what happened. Mr M and Mrs Ms recollections on their own  without 
other information to back up what they say  isnt strong or clear enough to make me think 
that would be a fair and reasonable conclusion. So I cant uphold their complaint for this 
reason.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint, but I dont think there are. Halifax has treated the sale of Mr M and Mrs Ms PPI 
on the basis that it recommended it to them. This means it needed to make sure it was right 
for them in their circumstances. From what Mr M and Mrs M say of their circumstances at 
the time and the policy document Ive seen, I think that it was. I say this because, based on 
these things:
I think Mr M was eligible for the PPI and he wasnt affected by any of the policys 
main limitations and exclusions. So there was nothing to stop him from claiming the 
full policy benefit if hed needed to. I understand Mr M was self-employed at the time. 
But this particular policy didnt make it difficult for someone who was self-employed to 
make an unemployment claim.
Being self-employed, Mr M wouldnt have got any sick pay if he was unable to work 
because of sickness or an accident. And I think Mrs M may have only been working 
part-time. From the mortgage application Ive seen, they had some savings but these 
werent significant. And I havent seen anything to show they had any other insurance 
policies to fall back on if things got difficult. A mortgage is a significant and long-term 
financial commitment, and your home is at risk if you fall behind on your repayments. 
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each successful 
accident, sickness or unemployment claim Mr M made. So I think it gave                  
Mr M and Mrs M useful protection they didnt otherwise have.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr M and Mrs M, Halifax also had to give them 
information about the PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading. With so little information 
available from the time, Im not sure what steps Halifax took to do this. But, as Ive said, I 
havent seen enough information to make me think Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree to it or 
know they had a choice about it. And I think it wouldve been useful for them if something 
went wrong. Although Mrs M says they couldnt afford the cover, its monthly cost (which I 
believe was around £15 a month) doesnt look like it was unaffordable. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Mrs M.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Mrs M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr M and Mrs M about that. Because Halifax didnt tell  
Mr M and Mrs M that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
I understand Halifax has offered Mr M and Mrs M £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused them for two mistakes it says it made when investigating their 
complaint. If Mr M and Mrs M would like to accept this offer, they should let our adjudicator 
know.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Mrs M.But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax does have to pay back to Mr M and Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman