DRN-2873915
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D was out with friends when he reported his car stolen to the police. The police told him 
the next day theyd found the car, which had been damaged in an accident. With his dads 
help Mr D recovered the car himself and claimed on his policy. Advantage refused to pay the 
claim. It didn't believe Mr Ds version of events. It told him he would need to reimburse the 
costs of £816 that it had incurred in dealing with the claim.
Mr D didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 11 May 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D told us that the stolen car had previously belonged to his dad. And that, when his dad 
bought it, the car only had one key. So Mr D said hed only ever had one key for the car.
Following the claim Advantage appointed independent engineers to examine the car. They 
interrogated the cars ECU. They said there was no sign of force used in the theft and 
concluded that the car must have been stolen with one of its two original keys. So, as Mr D 
confirmed he still had the only remaining key, Advantage concluded that the car hadn't been 
stolen but had been crashed while Mr D was driving it, perhaps under the influence of 
alcohol.
Mr D disputes that. He said that evidence from the police is that many cars are stolen 
without forced entry and without the original key, using various electronic devices or cloned 
keys. Further, he provided us with statements from his dad and his boss, who were with him 
on the night of the theft. They both corroborated Mr Ds account that they were with him all 
night and that the car had gone when Mr D went to retrieve it. They said Mr D wasn't 
drinking alcohol that evening. Mr D said that, while he doesn't know exactly how the car was 
taken, it wasn't him that was driving it when it was damaged.
I have some sympathy with Mr Ds position. I've noted that the independent engineers have 
concluded that the car must have been driven with one of its original keys. But if an 
electronic device had cloned a key its possible the ECU would recognise it as an original 
key. And there is certainly evidence from other sources that many cars are stolen without 
using force and without the original keys. So I asked Advantage to consider interrogating the 
key fob itself. Thats because often theyll record the time and date the specific key was 
used. And that could conclusively show whether or not Mr Ds key was used on the night in 
question. But Advantage didn't agree to that and simply sent me another copy of the 
engineers report, which Id already seen.
Further, Advantage has implied that Mr D has made a fraudulent claim. That is it believes he 
told a deliberate lie in order for Advantage to pay his claim for the damage to his car. I need 
to make clear that it's not my role to determine if someones acted fraudulently, as ultimately 
that's a matter for law enforcement agencies and the courts. But fraud is a serious 
allegation, it goes to someone's integrity, it alleges a criminal act (and might expose them to 
the risk of criminal investigation and prosecution) and it may have serious repercussions for 
an individual's ability to obtain insurance for years to come. So, before deciding a 
policyholder has most likely committed fraud, I think its reasonable that an insurer like 
Advantage has enough evidence on which to base such an allegation. And I'm not 
convinced that it has.
Indeed, as far as I can see, the only evidence Advantage has that Mr Ds version of events 
isn't reliable is the comments of the independent engineers that the car was taken with an 
original key. Advantage has told me that it carried out a theft interview with Mr D, but 
despite requests, it hasn't sent me its interview records or other investigation materials. And 
I note that it hasn't taken some fairly basic steps. For example its usual in cases such as 
this for insurers to request a police report. Thats because such a report will often show 
whether or not the police had concerns over the circumstances of the reported theft. And it 
might have provided details such as the time the car was crashed, which could have 
supported Mr Ds version of events. But Advantage didn't get the police report. I think that 
was a significant oversight.
Similarly, Advantage could have interviewed Mr Ds companions on the night of the theft. 
Advantage has suggested that, as Mr Ds companions are relatives and colleagues of his, 
their statements aren't evidentially valuable. But I disagree. Investigators can often glean 
information about whether or not individuals accounts should be relied upon from the 
witnesses demeanour or perhaps because of inconsistencies within and between those 
accounts. But Advantage didn't ever follow this line of enquiry and simply dismissed Mr Ds 
companions statements, without any tangible reason to do so. I don't think that was fair.
It follows that I don't think Advantage has investigated the matter fully. And as a result I'm 
not persuaded that its decision to refuse Mr Ds claim was fair. So, to put things right, I think 
it should settle Mr Ds claim for the loss of his car subject to the remaining terms and excess 
of his policy. It should add simple interest to its settlement as set out below. And, if it has 
recorded on internal or external databases that Mr D has made a fraudulent claim it should 
take action to remove those records. And, as Advantages decision to unfairly decline Mr Ds 
claim has been the source of distress and inconvenience for him, it should pay him £500 
compensation to address that.
Developments
Mr D accepted my provisional decision, Advantage didn't. In reply Advantage largely 
repeated points it had made earlier and which Id already considered before arriving at my 
provisional decision. Amongst other things it: said it had done a sufficient investigation to 
decide the theft couldn't have happened as Mr D had described; repeated the findings of the 
independent engineers concerning the original keys; said the theft didn't conform to the 
usual motivations for car thefts; said the use of a cloned key was unlikely; added that Mr Ds 
witnesses wouldn't have elaborated on the theft circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. As I've said above, most of Advantage's response to my provisional decision simply repeats 
points it had made earlier and which Id already considered before arriving at my provisional 
decision. It hasn't provide any new evidence or information which causes me to change my 
provisional  conclusions. Ill address its key points below.
Advantage said there are four main reasons for stealing a car and Ive quoted below its 
explanation for why it doesnt think those apply in Mr Ds case.
Vehicle stolen to order  This can be ruled out as the vehicle was abandoned and 
recovered by the customer.
Vehicle stolen for parts  This can be ruled out as the vehicle does not have any 
parts missing.
Vehicle stolen and used in a crime  This can be ruled out as there is no report of the 
vehicle being used in a crime.
Vehicle stolen by an opportunist thief  This can be ruled out as the vehicle was 
reported as locked and secure which does not make it a target for an opportunist 
thief.
But Advantages first three points seem to overlook the fact that the car was crashed, 
presumably shortly after it was stolen. And in those circumstances its likely the thief would 
want to make a quick getaway before the police arrived. I don't think a thief would take the 
trouble to arrange the damaged cars recovery or to strip parts from it. Similarly, if the car 
had been taken for use in a crime, it could have been crashed before the planned crime was 
committed. So I don't find Advantage's arguments about the motivation for the theft are in 
any way convincing to support its theory that the car wasnt actually stolen but crashed by 
Mr D. 
Further, Advantage said the use of a cloned key was unlikely, particularly as the car was 
stolen away from Mr Ds home and so the thief would have had to follow him there. But, if a 
cloned key was used, then there could have been other reasons, beyond the thief following 
Mr D to explain that. For example, the thief could have had prior knowledge of Mr Ds plans 
for the evening, as he was on a night out with colleagues and a number of people would 
have known of those plans. Another explanation was that the key was cloned on the evening 
of the theft, and there are other possible explanations that I don't need to go into here. And  
while I don't know if a cloned key was used, Advantage had the opportunity to interrogate 
Mr Ds key fob, which might have shown one way or the other whether it was used or not. 
But it chose not to do that.
Advantage also said that interviewing Mr Ds witnesses wouldn't elaborate on the 
circumstances of the theft. But I don't know how it can fairly arrive at that conclusion without 
actually interviewing them. As Advantage will know, insurance loss adjusters and 
investigators often comment on witnesses credibility  and the strength of their evidence. And 
insurers can reasonably use that information to support their decisions. But Advantage 
chose not to pursue that line of enquiry either. Instead, it largely relied on a single piece of 
evidence - the independent engineers report - as a basis for declining Mr Ds claim and 
implying Mr D acted fraudulently. It did so without  basic  evidence including a police report. 
So I'm simply not persuaded it carried out a full investigation which then gave it reasonable 
and fair grounds to refuse Mr Ds claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:Settle Mr Ds claim for the loss of his car. It should add simple interest to its claim 
settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ds claim to the date it pays him 
the settlement.1
Remove any record of a fraudulent claim from internal and external databases.
Pay Mr D £500 compensation to reflect his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.