DRN-4266408
The complaint
Mr C complains that Quilter Life and Pensions Limited (Quilter) delayed the transfer of the 
cash part of his pension funds to his new pension provider (provider V), causing him 
financial detriment. He feels that Quilters practice of not transferring cash until all other 
funds have transferred is unfair.
Quilter upheld Mr Cs complaint and carried out a loss calculation which it said showed hed 
suffered no loss as a result of the delays it caused. Mr C feels that Quilters loss calculation 
was unfair. He says it didnt cover the actual loss to his funds, and that it wasnt the 
calculation that Quilter had promised to use. 
What happened
Mr C held a pension fund with Quilter. It was invested in five separate funds, with a further 
£936 held in cash. 
Mr C said that he asked Quilter to transfer his pension fund to provider V on 2 September 
2022. He said the receiving fund asked Quilter to transfer four of his five holdings in-specie 
and to liquidate the fifth holding into cash and transfer that as cash. The timeline shows that 
this request took place on 12 September 2022. 
Mr C said that Quilter completed the request to transfer four of the holdings in-specie. He 
said that three of the four holdings were transferred in a timely manner. But the transfer of 
the fourth holding was delayed until late November 2022. As this delay was the result of an 
administrative problem with a third-party intermediary, Mr C doesnt hold Quilter responsible. 
Mr C said that Quilter converted the fifth holding to cash in a timely manner. He said it was 
realised as cash with Quilter on 16 September 2022. And that the total amount of cash he 
then held with Quilter was £106,422.55. But that instead of transferring the cash to the 
provider V within a few days, Quilter held on to it for more than two months. 
On 23 November 2022, Quilter transferred £101,101.42 to provider V but retained £5,321.13 
for a further six days, at which point it was transferred. 
Mr C said that between September and November 2022, he asked Quilter on several 
occasions to transfer the cash as soon as possible. But that it told him that it was its normal 
practice to transfer the cash last, once all the in-specie transfers had been made. 
Mr C felt that hed made a financial loss because of the delayed transfer. He said that he 
wouldve been able to purchase additional units if the cash transfer had taken place in a 
timely manner. He calculated that hed lost more than £6,000. Mr C complained to Quilter on 
22 September 2022. 
Quilter issued its first final response to the complaint on 27 October 2022. It said that while it 
had received confirmation that three of the four in-specie funds had been moved to provider 
V on 12 September 2022, it was still waiting for the fourth in-specie fund to transfer. It said it 
had chased the fund manager to action the fourth transfer, but that it couldnt speed up the 
process.  
Quilter said it wasnt delaying the cash transfer, as it was waiting for the fund manager. And 
that when funds were re-registered, it always moved the funds first. And that cash would 
only be transferred once the re-registrations had completed. But it acknowledged that it did 
cause a slight delay as itd authorised the outstanding stock transfer form later than the other 
three. Quilter said it would carry out a loss calculation once the funds had all been 
transferred to see if Mr C had been disadvantaged by the switch to cash. 
Quilter said that as Mr C had requested the switch to cash, it wouldnt be able to complete 
the calculations from 2 September 2022. But that it would calculate any loss based on the 
date the transfer request was received and the date it wouldve switched if its normal 
process had been followed. It also offered Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused 
him. 
Mr C still had concerns after receiving Quilters response. He felt that his cash shouldve 
been transferred in September 2022. And that the fact that it hadnt been transferred until 
November 2022 had led to a loss.
Quilter replied to Mr Cs points in its 2 December 2022 response letter. It said that 
£101,101.42 of the cash holding had been released to provider V on 29 November 2022 and 
the remaining £5,321.13 transferred on 6 December 2022. It said that the only asset that it 
had sold had been done so on the instruction of provider V. And that it had processed the 
sale in line with the instructions received. But it said it shouldve released the cash within its 
normal timescale of three working days, so by 23 November 2022. 
To put things right, Quilter said it would ask provider V to assess Mr Cs account position if 
provider V had received the cash by 30 November 2022  five working days from when it felt 
it shouldve released the cash on 23 November 2022. And if that assessment showed that 
Mr C had incurred a loss due to the delay in issuing the cash payment, Quilter would put Mr 
Cs pension fund with provider V back to the position it wouldve been in but for the delay. 
Quilter also apologised to Mr C for having previously given him incorrect information. And 
said that it was its standard practice to act on an encashment request when received. And to 
transfer any cash holdings last, after all re-registrations had been completed. It also offered 
to increase its compensation for trouble and upset to £200. 
Mr C was still unhappy with Quilters response. So he wrote to it again on 12 December 
2022. He still felt that Quilter should carry out the loss calculation he had suggested, rather 
than the one it had offered to do. He felt that he wouldve been able to buy additional units 
worth around £6,000 if his cash transfer had taken place in September 2022. 
Mr C also felt that Quilters previous explanation that it didnt release cash to a receiving 
scheme until all assets had been confirmed as re-registered because it needed to deduct 
accrued fees and charges up until the point of closure before releasing the cash was unfair. 
He said that his cash was more than £100,000. And that it was unnecessary for Quilter to 
keep that amount of money out of the marked from mid-September to late-November 2022 
on account of potential fees and charges. He also said that there had in fact been no fees or 
charges.
Quilter replied to Mr C on 16 December 2022. It said it hadnt instructed the sale to cash  
provider V had. And that when it received such an instruction, it completed the sale as soon 
as possible. It said this meant that the price comparison it had offered in its previous 
response was invalid, because it had sold the fund at the correct time based on the 
instructions it had received.Quilter also said that it couldnt know how long a re-registration transfer would take. So it 
couldnt know what fees and charges would be due by the time the transfer was finalised. It 
said this was why its procedure was to release the cash last. It said that the only delay it was 
responsible for was the delay between 23 and 29 November 2022, which it would address 
through the loss calculation. 
Still unhappy, Mr C wrote to Quilter with further aspects of his complaint. He still felt that 
Quilter shouldve transferred the cash as soon as it had been realised. And that if it had 
been, he wouldve been around £6,000 better off.
Quilter issued its last final response letter on 5 January 2023. It said that it had carried out a 
loss calculation based on the units remaining invested until ten working days before the 
transfer was finalised on 29 November 2022. And that this showed that if the encashed 
funds had remained invested up to 16 November 2022 the fund value wouldve been lower 
than the actual value. So it felt Mr C hadnt lost out financially. But Quilter increased its 
compensation offer for the trouble and upset caused to £400.
Quilter acknowledged that it hadnt handled Mr Cs complaint to the standard it aimed to 
provide. And offered to increase the compensation to £400. It said this was in recognition of 
the incorrect information contained in its 27 October 2022 response. And the delay in 
completing the correct price comparison to address what had happened. 
Unhappy with Quilters final response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He didnt 
agree with Quilters rationale for transferring the cash at the end of the process. And felt it 
was absurd to withhold over £100,000 for more than two months in case there might be 
costs. He felt this also breached the Terms and Conditions of his policy, as he felt they 
required payments of cash to be made within ten working days of the instruction from the 
policyholder. 
Mr C also provided this service with his own loss calculation. He said hed adopted this 
calculation because Quilter had told him in its 2 December 2022 response that this was how 
the calculation should be carried out. He didnt agree with the loss calculation Quilter had 
actually carried out. He said this was the wrong calculation because it wasnt the calculation 
that Quilter itself had said should be made. And because Quilters calculation was based on 
the hypothesis that it shouldve delayed liquidating the fund, despite its position that it must 
liquidate funds immediately on being asked to do so and that it would be a breach of the 
Terms and Conditions of the policy to do anything else. 
Mr C felt that Quilter should make a compensatory payment into his pension account with 
provider V to put him back into the position he wouldve been in if the cash had been 
transferred in September 2022.
Quilter initially objected to this service investigating the complaint on the basis that it 
shouldve been referred to The Pensions Ombudsman (TPO) instead. 
Our investigator didnt consider that this was a complaint that would be more suitable for 
determination by TPO. He noted that as there was an overlap between our jurisdiction and 
the TPOs, ultimately it was down to the consumer which one he brought his complaint to. 
And as Mr C had brought his complaint to this service, we would look into it. 
Our investigator felt that Quilter had offered a reasonable amount of compensation for the 
trouble and upset it had caused. But considered that Quilter should carry out a different loss 
calculation from the one it had proposed. He felt that once Quilter had received notification 
from provider V that the final re-registration had completed on 18 November 2022, it 
shouldve transferred the entire remaining cash amount in ten working days, in line with the Terms and Conditions. 
Quilter agreed with our investigator.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He still felt that the Terms and Conditions of the 
policy required payments of cash to be made within ten working days of the instruction from 
the policyholder. And that our investigator had misinterpreted the second sentence of Clause 
20.9 of the Terms and Conditions in support of his conclusion. He felt our investigator had 
taken this to mean that all the in-specie transfers had to be completed before the cash could 
be paid. But in his view the sentence didnt say that. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Quilter should carry out a loss calculation 
based on all of Mr Cs cash being transferred to provider V in ten working days. I know my 
decision will be disappointing to Mr C. Ill explain the reasons for it.
Before I start, I want to acknowledge that, in trying to resolve Mr Cs complaint, Quilter has 
made two different and conflicting loss calculation offers. One of these isnt Quilters 
standard approach in cases like these. This has understandably caused Mr C some concern. 
In my decision, Ive considered when the cash shouldve been transferred, if thered been no 
unnecessary delays.
I need to consider whether Quilter acted fairly and reasonably when it encashed over 
£100,000 of Mr Cs funds and then retained them for two months. Mr C considers that Quilter 
shouldve followed Clause 20.9 of the Terms and Conditions, which he takes to mean 
require Quilter to transfer the encashed proceeds within ten days. He felt that the second 
sentence in Clause 20.9 clearly refers only to ETIs that are to be encashed, not those that 
are to be transferred in-specie.
Our investigator had a different interpretation of the Terms and Conditions. He felt that 
Clause 20.9 stated that Quilter would only transfer the cash after all funds had been 
transferred. 
Meaning of the Terms and Conditions
Clause 20.9 states the following:
Payment of a cash transfer will be made to the receiving pension scheme within ten working 
days of when we accept your instruction. We will pay the transfer proceeds as one amount 
once we receive them from the fund managers for all of the funds and ETI proceeds being 
transferred.
I acknowledge that Mr C feels strongly that Clause 20.9 of the Terms and Conditions doesnt 
mean what our investigator felt it meant. Hes provided this service with a detailed 
explanation of why he feels the Terms and Conditions require Quilter to transfer the 
encashed proceeds within ten days. But I dont agree.
I say this because Clause 20.9 is clear that the entire transfer proceeds will be paid as one 
amount. Other clauses within section 20 of the Terms and Conditions cover other aspects of transferring away from Quilter. Clause 20.3 states:
You can transfer funds and ETIs in your account by re-registration or as a cash transfer to 
another pension scheme.
Although the wording in this clause could be taken to mean there are only two options  
transferring all funds by re-registration, or transferring everything as cash  all parties know 
that the option to transfer some funds by re-registration and others as cash is available. 
So Im satisfied that when clause 20.9 states that a cash transfer will be paid within ten 
working days of an instruction, the fact that it also goes onto state that the transfer proceeds 
will be paid as one amount can only be the case if the entire transfer is for cash. As this 
wasnt the case here, the second part of clause 20.9 becomes relevant. And the one-off 
transfer would only become payable once all funds and ETIs had been transferred.
I acknowledge that Mr C considers that the second sentence in Clause 20.9 only referred to 
ETI proceeds, rather than funds and ETI proceeds, but I cant reasonably agree. 
I understand why Mr C considers it was unreasonable for Quilter to hold on to so much cash 
until the end of the process, especially in this situation where no charges were actually 
levied at the end of the transfer process. But I also agree with our investigator that 
transferring the cash at the end of the process is standard industry practice, which allows 
any final charges that may be incurred as part of the transfer process to be deducted. As 
these charges cant be known until the end of the process, and as the Terms and Conditions 
allow for any outstanding charges to be deducted, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Quilter to transfer the cash last. 
Mr C has told this service that when he took out his policy with Quilter in 2018, Clause 19.6 
of the Terms and Conditions clearly stated that in the event of a transfer:
Payment will be made to the receiving pension scheme within ten working days of when we 
accept your instruction.
He said that after the regulator introduced a requirement that platforms should make 
transfers in-specie where possible, Quilter changed its Terms and Conditions. And as part of 
the change, the former Clause 19.6 became Clause 20.9. 
Mr C said that although he accepted Quilter was permitted to change the Terms and 
Conditions, they also required it to notify policyholders if any changes would be to the 
policyholders disadvantage. He felt that our investigators interpretation of the revised 
clause 20.9 plainly showed that policyholders had been disadvantaged by the change. And 
that as Quilter hadnt notified him of such a change, if our investigators view was correct, it 
had breached the Terms and Conditions. 
From what Ive seen, Mr C hasnt raised this complaint point with Quilter. So it hasnt had the 
chance to consider this part of his complaint. And I havent been provided with sufficient 
evidence to look into this point. So I cant consider this point any further here. 
As Im satisfied that the Terms and Conditions allow Quilter to defer any cash transfer until 
after all other funds have been transferred, I next considered whether Quilter shouldve 
encashed Mr Cs fund when it did.
Should Quilter have encashed Mr Cs fund at the start of the process?
Mr C doesnt consider that Quilter acted fairly or reasonably when it waited until the in-specie transfers had taken place before sending the cash to provider V. Hes also questioned 
whether its standard industry practice to realise the cash right at the start of the transfer 
process, and then retain it while the in-specie transfers go ahead. 
The evidence shows that provider V asked Quilter to encash Mr Cs fund on 12 September 
2022. Quilter carried out this action on 16 September 2022.
Under the Terms and Conditions, Quilter is required to carry out instructions within specified 
time limits. The encashment instruction was a valid one, received from Mr Cs new provider. 
So Quilter was obliged to follow it. From what Ive seen, Quilter did what it was supposed to 
do within the required time limits. It wasnt within its power to decline or modify the 
instruction.
Given the evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that Quilter acted unfairly when it followed 
the instruction from provider V in a timely fashion, and in line with the Terms and Conditions. 
I acknowledge that Mr C feels that Quilter shouldnt have encashed over £100,000 of assets 
so early in the transfer process. He doesnt agree that it could possibly need to hold on to 
such a large amount of funds for so long. I understand why he feels this way, especially as 
no charges were levied in the end, but Ive found no evidence that Quilter did anything 
wrong. 
I next considered when the cash shouldve been transferred.
When should the cash have been transferred?
The fourth in-specie transfer completed on 4 November 2022, but Quilter were only informed 
about this by provider V on 18 November 2022. Provider V was responsible for confirming 
this to Quilter, so the earliest date it couldve started the process to transfer the cash 
wouldve been 18 November 2022. 
Once Quilter was aware that the final re-registration had been completed, it was required 
under the Terms and Conditions to transfer the cash within ten working days.
Quilter transferred most of the cash on 23 November 2022. As this is within the ten working 
days specified in the Terms and Conditions, I consider this was reasonable. But I agree with 
our investigator that the remaining cash shouldve also be transferred at this time. Instead, 
the remaining cash wasnt transferred until 6 December 2022, 12 working days later. And 
therefore outside of the time limits specified in the Terms and Conditions. 
I agree with our investigator that Quilter shouldve transferred all of the cash on 23 
November 2022.
I finally considered whether Quilters offer of £400 for the trouble and upset it had caused Mr 
C was fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Distress and Inconvenience
Quilters final offer of compensation for the trouble and upset it caused Mr C was £400, for 
the delay and poor customer service he received. Mr C has clearly been inconvenienced 
during the transfer process.
From what Ive seen, I consider this is a reasonable offer. Quilter did cause a short delay to 
the transfer of the final amount of cash. And I consider that it also provided Mr C with poor 
customer service and communication over the course of the transfer and his complaint. However, the £400 Quilter has offered is in line with what I wouldve otherwise 
recommended. So I cant reasonably ask it to increase its offer.
Putting things right
I require Quilter to undertake a calculation to compare what units Mr C couldve purchased 
had all of the funds been transferred on 23 November 2022. Mr C has provided evidence to 
show that he was able to invest into his chosen fund with the initial cash amount transferred, 
with a pricing date of 1 December 2022. So, the redress should be assessed using this date 
and fund. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what 
he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the actual value at the date of my final decision of Mr Cs pension plan with 
provider V with the fair value at the same date on the basis that all cash funds had been 
invested in the provider V Lifestrategy 100% Equity Fund A Acc fund using Friday 1 
December 2022 price. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should also add any interest to the compensation payable of 8% simple per year 
from the date of my final decision to settlement (if not settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the complainant's acceptance).
Quilter should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr C 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.Pay to Mr C £400 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay and the poor customer 
service.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because Mr C wanted Capital growth and was 
willing to accept some investment risk.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter Life & Pensions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Quilter Life & Pensions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman