DRN-3334376
The complaint
Miss S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around November 2017, Miss S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Miss S decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In October 2019, the CMC made a claim on Miss Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Miss S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself within 10 years then the remaining 15 years would be 
profit: and
electricity bills would reduce; and
extras provided would save money; and
the system would generate a net profit; and
savings and returns from the system would cover the monthly finance payments; and 
an average yearly return on investment of 18.67% would be received; and
there would be a reduction in the energy used.
the year one returns were guaranteed.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response, so the complaint was referred to this service to 
investigate. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator found that Miss S had already been 
compensated following an earlier complaint about the system. Our investigator found that 
Miss S said she was satisfied with Ps resolution so couldnt hold Shawbrook responsible.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Miss Ss acceptance of Ps resolution related to a previous complaint relating to a 
different matter.
Following Miss Ss previous complaint, she was still under the impression that the 
system would be self-funding.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
I reached the same outcome as our investigator, but for different reasons. Because of that, I 
issued a provisional decision on 10 February 2022  giving both Miss S and Shawbrook the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Our investigators view refers to a previous complaint made by Miss S to P. This related to a 
separate matter and both the CMC and Miss S have confirmed this didnt relate to the 
matters specifically referred to in this particular complaint. 
Miss S signed an agreement that Ps settlement, at the time, covered all complaints raised 
against P. But that agreement pre-dated this complaint by some time, and Im satisfied was 
for different reasons. The earlier complaint also occurred very shortly after the systems 
installation, and I dont think Miss S could reasonably have been aware of any potential 
issues then. I dont think P can rely upon the previous settlement to remove them from any 
ongoing contractual obligations.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss S could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss S 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss Ss recollection of the sale.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Miss S has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Miss S has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £184.50.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss S could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £330.71 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chose by Miss S the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£904.01. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Miss S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £113.37. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £113.37, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year.
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss S that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Miss S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 15, the overall benefits that Miss S 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 15, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,832 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss Ss FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,602.59 kWh. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, but still 
within accepted industry tolerances of 10%. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing as 
expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explains why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss S 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss S entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve been 
discussed with Miss S, which the original complaint supports, and so Ive not been 
persuaded that the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been 
contradicted by the quote. To support this, Im satisfied that the Miss S was sent the quote, 
had time to consider it and to raise any issues prior to installation.
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Shawbrook have confirmed that it has nothing further to add.
The CMC didnt agree with the findings in my provisional decision for the following reasons:
The investigator originally thought Miss Ss complaint should be upheld on the basis that P had previously accepted that the system installed wasnt performing. But this 
view changed on the basis that Miss S had accepted compensation from P already. 
The related complaint occurred only 7 days after installation and so Miss Ss 
complaint should be upheld
Miss S couldnt judge FIT payments and performance.
Miss S couldnt judge her energy savings.
Energy savings were significantly less than those claimed by P.
The energy saving assumptions used by P in relation to the system and the extras 
chosen by Miss S were inappropriate and inaccurate.
I have already acknowledged in my provisional decision that I believe the settlement of Miss 
Ss previous complaint to P wouldnt exempt her from any separate future claims or 
complaints. 
In my provisional decision, I also believe I clearly explained my findings in relation to the 
performance of the system installed at Miss Ss home. And Ive not been provided with 
anything that persuades me to change my mind here.
The CMC makes detailed reference to the validity of the assumptions used by P in relation to 
the extras that Miss S chose to be installed at her home. In doing so, they have referenced 
reports and information from a variety of sources. 
This service has established that Ps sales processes have been subjected to expert 
scrutiny. The question of the appropriateness of assumptions underpinning an individual 
quotation is a complex sector-specific matter. This service has been comforted that Ps 
assumptions are appropriately regulated by specialist trade bodies and Alternative Dispute 
Resolution (ADR) entities, specific to the sector. Based upon this, Ive not been provided 
with anything that leads me to doubt the validity of Ps assumptions in Miss Ss case.
So, having considered all of the information here, my final decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I so not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman