DRN-3373735
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 
connection with the transfer of benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr T to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ts.
What happened
Mr T contacted Portal around March 2014 in order to discuss the possibility of releasing 
funds from his pension. Portal then gathered information about the funds available in his DB 
scheme. Amongst other things the scheme administrators said that its normal retirement age 
was 65 but that members could access reduced benefits from age 60.
On 19 May 2014, after conducting a pension transfer value analysis, Portal wrote to Mr T. It 
said his DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £211,888 and a critical 
yield (the growth rate required to match the benefits from is DB scheme) of 9.3%. It gave 
Mr T three options:
Do nothing
Pension Release. This would allow Mr T to take tax free cash (TFC) of up to 
£52,972 and to reinvest the residual amount.
Take TFC of up to £52,972 and use the residual fund to produce an income. 
Portal asked Mr T to contact it to discuss his options. On 28 May 2014 Portal spoke with 
Mr T. It completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. It 
also carried out an assessment of his attitude to risk. It found that:
Mr T was 55 years old and recently separated.
He was living with his mum and had no housing costs.
He was self -employed with a net income of around £650 a month.
He received or anticipated receiving working tax credits of around £200 a month.
He was paying £158 a month for a loan to buy a car which had £5,900 owing.
He owed around £5,000 on two credit cards; he was paying £25 a month towards 
those and was currently in arrears.
He owed £200 in catalogue debts. 
He didnt have any savings or investments. 
He had a balanced attitude to risk.
Portal recorded that Mr T said he wanted to access TFC from his pension in order to pay off 
debts and to put a deposit on as well as furnish his own rental property. He added he 
couldnt afford to move away without taking funds from the DB scheme. He also said that 
having his own home would allow him to begin work again as a foster carer. He said without 
TFC he wouldnt be able to move out of his mums house. He also commented that hed 
been declined further loans. 
On 24 June 2019 Portal wrote to Mr T. It repeated that his DB scheme had a CETV of 
£211,888 from which he could release £52,972 TFC. It said that as the critical yield was 
9.3% it would be against its recommendation for Mr T to transfer out of the scheme. It said 
that by doing so, Mr T would be giving up a guaranteed pension of £13,506 a year together 
with TFC of £35,371 payable at age 65. It added that if Mr T still wished to proceed he could 
do so on an insistent client basis. 
On 17 July 2014, Portal sent Mr T its Income Drawdown Suitability Report. Under a 
heading of My Recommendation the report said that its recommendation was for Mr T to 
leave his funds where they are. But as it was treating Mr T as an insistent client and he had 
asked that I make a recommendation on how you may utilise your pension funds. It 
recommended that Mr T should transfer his DB pension scheme funds to a named PPP. It 
added that by following its recommendation Mr T could take TFC of £52,972 in order to 
achieve his objectives or repaying debt, move into his own home and make home 
improvements.
The suitability report said several times that Portals recommendation was that Mr T should 
leave his funds in his DB scheme. It also set out some of the potential risks of taking that 
action. It added that, as Mr T wished to proceed, it was treating him as an insistent client and 
said he knew what guaranteed benefits he would be giving up. It also said that by taking 
TFC:
 this will result in you receiving a higher pension value at retirement as it allows you to 
redirect your contributions that would have been focused on repaying your debt back into 
your pension whereby you will receive tax relief.
And, under a heading of Our Recommendations, after repeating that Portal was treating 
Mr T as an insistent client, it said its recommendation was to transfer Mr Ts funds to the 
named PPP because of:
the possibility that the benefits available at retirement with your recommended new 
pension will exceed the benefits that would have been available through your existing 
provider. 
On 16 September 2014 Mr T signed a form to say that he understood the benefits that he 
would be giving up by transferring out of the DB scheme and that he was proceeding on an 
insistent client basis. Portal then arranged the transfer of Mr Ts funds from his DB scheme 
to the PPP and he received TFC.
Mr T complained in May 2021 to Portal about the suitability of its transfer advice because, 
amongst other things:
Portal failed to exercise a duty of care.
Its advice was negligent. 
The PPP it recommended wasnt suitable for someone like Mr T who was an 
inexperienced investor and had a low capacity for loss.
Portal didnt discuss alternatives to transferring out of his DB scheme.
It didnt make Mr T aware that his DB scheme benefits would likely generate a better 
retirement income than the PPP.
Its warnings about the transfer and investment were insufficient to make Mr T fully 
aware of the risks involved.Transferring out of the DB scheme wasnt in his best interests.
Portal failed to follow the regulator's guidance.
Mr T would have to bear costs from the PPP he would not have had to pay in the DB 
scheme.
. 
Portal didnt respond to the merits of Mr Ts complaint. Instead it said that hed brought it 
outside of the time limits for doing so.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators spoke with him. Mr T told 
the investigator that he had moved out of his mums home after taking TFC and moved in 
with his  then  partner. But the relationship hadn't worked out and he moved back home. 
Our investigator asked him what he remembered about Portal treating him as an insistent 
client. Mr T said that he didnt have any memory of Portal advising him not to transfer out of 
the scheme.
Our investigator asked how Mr T would have replied at the time if Portal had told him not to 
transfer. Mr T said:
At the time I did need that money. So I probably wouldnt have accepted it [advice not to 
transfer out of the DB scheme] you know what I mean because I did need it.
Our investigator also asked Mr T what he would have done if he hadn't taken funds from the 
pension transfer. Mr T answered:
I'm not sure to be fair. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. 
It kind of got me out of a hole er, I'm not sure what I would have done apart from go to the 
doctors to say I was depressed.
Our investigator issued his assessment of the complaint. After explaining why Mr T was not 
out of time to bring his complaint the investigator said that he didnt think Portal needed to 
take any more action. In summary he said that Portal hadnt done everything that it should 
have done when deciding that Mr T was an insistent client. But he said that, even if that 
hadn't been the case, he thought that Mr T would have gone ahead with the transfer 
anyway.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
he said:
Although he had debts of around £11,000 at the time of the advice, those debts were 
manageable as he had a monthly disposable income of £179.
His living arrangements at the time were manageable.
By remaining in the DB scheme, at age 57 he would have been able to take TFC of 
£19,729 from his DB scheme and also draw an income of £7,718. But Portal didnt 
suitably bring this to his attention. 
Had Portal met its requirements and not misled him, he would have taken a different 
direction and not transferred out of the fund. 
If Portal had made his options clear at age 57, just two years away, he would have 
continued living with his mum until then.
It wasnt fair or reasonable to ask him what he would have done in hindsight, as 
Portal didnt provide full advice he can't now answer such queries accurately.
He doesn't think its fair to conclude that he would have gone ahead with the transfer 
anyway as his answers are hypothetical and a judgment should be made on the 
evidence available. So Portal shouldnt escape liability for his losses. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to our investigators assessment of it Mr T has 
made a number of points. Ive considered everything hes said and everything on file 
carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every issue or point raised. 
Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart of Mr Ts complaint and the reasons for 
my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons given 
by the investigator.
The regulator, the FCA, says in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. In this case 
Portal considered a transfer value analysis report which indicated that if Mr T transferred out 
of the DB scheme he was unlikely to be better off than if he remained in it. And it advised 
Mr T against making the transfer. But it noted that he wanted to go ahead anyway on an 
insistent client basis. It might help if I explain that where a consumer decides to proceed with 
an investment against a financial adviser's advice then the consumer is known as an 
insistent client.
In 2014 there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients.
But there were COBS rules which required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Portals recommendation was that Mr T should not transfer out of his DB scheme. While I 
think that was the right advice to give, I think there were flaws in Portals process and the 
manner in which it presented its recommendations. And as Ive indicated below, I think that 
confused matters. 
For example, when Portal wrote to Mr T on 19 May 2014, two of the three options it put to 
him involved him taking TFC of over £52,000. So it likely raised his expectations at that point 
that he could have entitlement to a significant lump sum. But that was before it gathered any 
real knowledge of Mr Ts situation and whether or not it might be in Mr Ts best interests to 
have such a large sum dangled in front of him. 
Similarly, after speaking with Mr T it wrote to him in June 2014. It said it thought the critical 
yield was too high to be matched and that hed be giving up guaranteed benefits from his DB 
scheme, at age 65, of £13,506 a year income and a lump sum of £35,371. But then in the 
next paragraph said that if he wanted to go ahead with the transfer anyway it could help him, 
while treating him as an insistent client.
Mr T wanted to go ahead with the process and it was only after that point that Portal 
provided its suitability report. So, at the point Mr T decided he wanted to be treated as an insistent client Portal hadnt yet produced its suitability report setting out its analysis of why a 
transfer out of the scheme wasnt in his best interests. So Mr T wasnt in a position to make 
an informed decision about going against its recommendation when it hadn't given him all 
the information he needed in order to make that decision. That is, it gave him some limited 
information relating to the critical yield and DB scheme benefits and expected him to make a 
determination that started him down the road of the insistent client process without giving 
him enough detail to reasonably make that decision.
A much clearer process would have been for Portal to provide its advice and 
recommendations as a whole, taking into account Mr Ts objectives and attitude to risk. That 
advice should have considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB 
scheme together with the choice of pension and Mr Ts desire to take TFC immediately. Only 
then should Portal have clearly set out in one document why transferring out of the DB 
scheme wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. 
Instead, it let him know what his CETV and lump sum entitlements were, and while it said its 
advice was not to transfer, it also told Mr T that it could arrange the transfer for him anyway. 
So, alongside its recommendation not to transfer, it also told Mr T that he could take a lump 
sum immediately. It was only later that it gave Mr T written information about the proposed 
alternatives in its suitability report, which was after Mr T had already said he wanted to 
transfer out of the DB scheme. And in that suitability report, while it did say on a number of 
occasions that its recommendation was that Mr T should not transfer out of the scheme, it 
also included recommendations to transfer and said that this could see Mr T better off in 
retirement. I think that sent mixed messages about what Portals genuine recommendation 
was. And I think this might explain why, when our investigator spoke with Mr T, he had no 
recollection of Portals advice being not to transfer out of the DB scheme or of its decision to 
treat him as an insistent client. It follows that, for the reasons given above, I dont think Portal 
went through the insistent client process fully and fairly or gave advice that was clear fair and 
not misleading.
That said, while I dont think Portals advice was fair and reasonable, I need to also think 
about whats more likely than not to have happened if its advice had been of the required 
standard. And whether or not Mr T suffered a loss as a direct result of Portals poor handling 
of the insistent client process or if thats something that is likely to have happened anyway. 
Mr Ts told us that at the time of the advice he wasnt in a good place mentally. He was 55 
years old, recently separated, going through a divorce and had just moved back in with his 
mum. He couldnt afford to move to his own place on the income he was earning. So he 
contacted Portal about the possibility of releasing TFC in order to clear his debts and move 
away from his mums. He said that having his own place would allow him to change career 
direction and to again work as a foster carer as he had in the past. He couldn't do that while 
living at his mums and couldnt move away on the income that he was earning at the time.
So, it seems likely that the possibility of a lump sum of over £52,000 in cash was an enticing 
prospect for Mr T at that time. While Portal's fact-find showed that Mr T had a monthly 
disposable income of £178, it also recorded that he wasnt paying rent or significantly 
contributing to household bills. So, it seems difficult to see how he could move out of his 
mums house and move into the realms of foster care, as he wanted, while in his present 
position. And I can understand that the TFC on offer may well have been sufficient 
motivation to go against Portals advice in order to move out of his mums home. In fact 
Mr Ts told us that, after receiving TFC he did move out of his mums and into a home he 
shared with his then partner, although that didnt work out. And Mr Ts told us that he didnt 
know what he would have done if he hadn't had the option of taking his TFC. As a result, I 
don't think any further clarity in Portals advice or it employing a fairer insistent client process 
would have resulted in Mr T acting differently.In contrast Mr Ts said that Portal didn't fully explore consolidation of his debts with him. 
Portal did consider some other ways of raising cash with him which weren't suitable for 
various reasons. But it didnt broach debt consolidation, which might have helped to make 
his payments more manageable; so I agree thats a further gap in Portals advice. But, 
there's no guarantee Mr T could have consolidated his debts, as hed told Portal hed been 
refused further lending. However, assuming he could, it seems extremely unlikely that would 
have boosted his disposable income to a point where he could have afforded to move to his 
own home and pay all the associated bills and charges.
Mr T also said that Portal hadnt set out what his options would have been if hed remained 
in the DB scheme and taken benefits from it early at age 57. But I don't think that option was 
actually available to Mr T. I've seen that when Portal produced its pension valuation analysis 
report, it did comparisons about what Mr T was likely to receive from his DB scheme both at 
the schemes normal retirement age of 65 and also at age 57. Its not clear why Portal ran a 
comparison at age 57. I've noted that theres evidence on file from the DB scheme 
administrators that the earliest Mr T could have taken reduced benefits from the DB scheme 
was at age 60 - some five years away from the date of advice. So I think any reference to 
potential benefits from the DB scheme at age 57 isnt relevant as those benefits simply 
weren't on the table. 
Further, while Mr T couldnt remember Portal advising him not to transfer out of the DB 
scheme, he said that if it had made that clear he wouldnt have followed its advice. He was 
quite plain when he spoke to our investigator that he had a pressing need for the money and 
that he didnt know what he would have done if the DB transfer hadn't been available. He 
said it got him out of a hole.
Mr Ts since said that its not fair to look back at what he might have done based on a 
hypothetical situation. And while it is  of course  possible that given clearer advice Mr T 
might have come to a different conclusion, I can't know for sure. We can't simply turn back 
the clock, so, as I've said above, I need to make a determination based on whats more likely 
than not to have happened. And, in arriving at that judgement I think its entirely reasonable 
to ask Mr T what he remembered of his situation at the time and what motivated him to make 
the decisions that he did, while applying appropriate caution about the time thats passed 
since then.
And having weighed all the evidence very carefully, it seems to me that Mr T was in great 
need of the money at the time; he saw it as a potential way to solve a number of his 
problems and set him on a more sturdy footing towards where he wanted to be. And he 
didnt have any other viable options that could set him on that course of action. So I'm not 
persuaded that had Portal provided full and clear advice Mr T would have done anything 
differently. I think hed have still gone against that advice and released the funds from his DB 
scheme. So I don't think hes lost out as a result of Portals poor advice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Portal to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman