DRN-2980158
The complaint
Mr S complains he was unable to set up online banking with TSB Bank plc (TSB). 
What happened
Mr S says in May 2020 with the help of his daughter, he attempted to set up an online 
banking facility with TSB so he could access his bank accounts, rather than visiting a 
branch, given his vulnerability at the time of the Covid pandemic. Mr S says TSBs systems 
didnt recognise his details and he was unable to access his bank accounts online as he 
wished. Mr S says his daughter complained to TSB on his behalf in June 2020, but TSB 
didnt know what was causing the problem and said they would refer the matter to its 
technical team. Mr S says he didnt hear anything further from TSB and chased them over 
this matter at the end of July 2020, and was told a letter had been sent to him in June 2020, 
but that hadnt been received by him so a copy of that letter was sent. 
Mr S says the letter didnt help to resolve the issue over the setting up of the online banking 
facility, so Mr Ss daughter on his behalf, emailed TSB again in August 2020 but hearing 
nothing more she telephoned TSB again in November 2020, to try and sort out the problem. 
Mr S says it became clear that nothing had been done over the issue, despite the emails and 
previous telephone calls made and it was causing severe inconvenience and stress to him. 
Mr S says he has health issues and simply wanted to access his bank accounts online, 
although he had been reluctant to do this previously. 
Mr S says although TSB more recently explained, there was an issue concerning his User ID 
and increased its offer of compensation to £75, he is still unable to use online banking. Mr S 
doesnt feel the offer goes far enough and is looking for TSB to pay him £500, for the trouble 
and stress this has caused him. 
TSB says it has apologised for the issues Mr S faced when he originally tried to set up his 
online banking and paid him compensation for that. Latterly TSB says it increased its 
compensation offer albeit the error with the USER ID/Password was not their fault. TSB says 
it asked Mr S to contact them if he had further issues setting up his online banking, but it 
hasnt heard anymore from him. 
Mr S wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ss complaint. The 
investigator felt TSB didnt provide enough information initially, to Mr S to help set up the 
online banking facility. The investigator says TSB should now increase its compensation to 
£150 to fairly reflect the time taken and inconvenience caused to Mr S. The investigator says 
TSB have now offered for one of its team members to contact Mr S to help with the online 
banking registration. 
Neither TSB nor Mr S agreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr S to have attempted to 
set up online banking with TSB, only to see his attempts to do so fail. 
I should mention that it is not the role of this service to scrutinise TSBs complaints process 
or to tell TSB how it should deal with complaints more widely. So here, while Mr S and his 
daughter are unhappy over the time it took TSB to do deal with the second complaint when 
Mr Ss initial complaint in June 2020 hadnt been resolved, I will not be commenting on that. 
That said, I will consider if TSB were at fault for the fact Mr S was unable to set up online 
banking, and if it did enough to help him resolve the issues he faced. 
Mr Ss daughter has told this service that her father wasnt in the best of health and that is 
why he finally agreed to set up online banking, given it was difficult for him to make branch 
visits as he had previously. Mr S s daughter has told this service despite emailing and 
telephoning TSB it hasnt been able to resolve her fathers issue of registering for online 
banking and this has caused a great deal of inconvenience and stress to him. 
While I understand the points Mr S and his daughter make here I should also say, when 
making a full and impartial decision, I have to take into account the fact this happened during 
the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike.
TSB have accepted initially there was a known technical error where customers using lower 
case format to input their postcode onto the online banking mandate, meant it wouldnt be 
accepted. From the response letter TSB sent Mr S in June 2020 it explained that and paid a 
£50 compensation payment - its fair to say at that point TSB believed it had explained this 
fully and resolved the issue. Mr S and his daughter says this final response letter wasnt 
received and it had to be resent in July 2020. I cant say TSB can be held responsible for its 
non-delivery as the address details are correct, although during this time of the Covid 
pandemic, its fair to say the postal service had experienced problems across the country, 
and that may have contributed to any problems Mr S may have faced here.  
What seems to have happened from the information I have seen, is Mr S continued to 
receive messages asking him for memorable information when trying to set up online 
banking, when he hadnt set this up yet. What is important here is it appears Mr S attempted 
to create his User I/D -Password using his name as part of that process, but that isnt 
permitted, and it is why the application failed. I have been provided details of the login 
process and it shows under tips for a good password that individuals names are not 
permitted for this.  
TSB says Mr S hasnt made further attempts to try to set up online banking or contact TSB 
after he was told to do so if he experienced further issues, and make the point it paid a 
further £25 as way of an apology, for not being clear about the login process.
While TSB have told this service that it has now updated its online banking screen when 
users attempt to create a password using their personal details - this only came into place 
from the final quarter of 2021. Its fair to say this suggests TSB recognised this was a 
problem and with that in mind, I am satisfied if that had been in place when Mr S 
experienced the issues he did, this would have been helpful at that time, but having that said, Mr S could have also perhaps contacted TSBs digital team, as he was asked to, in 
TSBs letter to him in February 2021.
While I understand Mr S has been inconvenienced here and he feels a more substantial 
compensation payment from TSB is warranted, its not my role to penalise business when 
mistakes are made. TSB have now offered to have its manager from its digital team to 
contact Mr S to talk him through the online banking set up process, in addition to the 
compensation payment it has already made. So, on balance while that seems a reasonable 
offer and although I have taken into account the staff constraints that Covid presented back 
in June 2020, Im of the view that solution was in all likelihood the way forward, earlier on in 
this process. So, with that in mind, I agree with the investigator that an additional £75 by way 
of apology would be more appropriate here.
I will leave it with Mr S to contact our investigator, who can give him the contact details at 
TSB who can talk him or his daughter through the process of setting up online banking, if 
that is what he still wishes to do. 
While I accept both parties will be disappointed with my decision here, I am satisfied this is a 
fair outcome. 
Putting things right
I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S a further £75 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S a further £75 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman