DRN-2537497
The complaint
In accordance with our normal approach, Im going to refer to the complainants in this case 
as Mr and Mrs A.
Mr and Mrs A took out a joint-mortgage in 1995 with Nationwide Building Society and were 
sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. 
Only Mr A was covered by the PPI. It protected him in the event of losing his job or being too 
ill to work. Mr and Mrs A say they were mis-sold this type of cover as the policy was not 
properly discussed and they were given no details about it. Mr A later added that no such 
policy could ever be shown to have existed.
What happened
I see Mr and Mrs A have already been offered some money back regarding part of the 
commission Nationwide got from the sale. One of our adjudicators then assessed the mis-
sale element of the complaint and told Mr and Mrs A this is unlikely to be upheld. They 
disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
To be clear, this final decision is about the mis-sale element of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
I can see Mr and Mrs A feel strongly about this matter and so Id like to assure them that 
Ive read everything they have sent through to us with great care. I include in this their 
recent reply to what our adjudicator had said.
Theres no dispute here from Nationwide that PPI was sold, and as Ive said, it has already 
offered some money back in respect of the commission. However, Mr and Mrs A are 
adamant that the PPI policy wasnt properly or fully discussed, and it was simply portrayed 
as being part of their mortgage transaction. They say there were no follow up discussions 
or paperwork issued. Of course, I accept what they say about this, but I do so in the context 
of their mortgage interview being well over 25 years ago. In my considerable experience as 
an ombudsman, I havent come across a case where a policy seems to have been agreed 
to, paid for and part-compensated for  but been proved never to have existed in the first 
place, which seems to form part of this allegation.
So, whilst Im sure Mr and Mrs A provide recollections now which are honest and genuine, 
there is obviously a possibility that these recollections are affected by the passage of time.
I say this because the mortgage application they completed and agreed to does suggest 
the opposite to Mr and Mrs As recollections. It shows, for example, that PPI was more than 
likely discussed, because theres a very strong indication of this on their application form. 
Mr and Mrs A make the point that the PPI selection box appears to have been pre-ticked 
on the application, the implication being that they therefore had no choice. But in my view, 
this procedure isnt unusual, and nor does it show that the PPI was something they needed 
to buy or was simply part of the mortgage. The fact the PPI box existed at all shows there 
was an obvious choice  wanting PPI would require a tick in the box; whereas declining PPI 
would require the box to be left empty. I think the optional nature of the cover was clear and 
straightforward.
In addition to this, computer generated forms such as the one used in this case were often 
part-printed like this in my experience. They contained details inputted on to the form by the 
mortgage adviser, during discussion with the applicant(s). I note certain other details were 
pre-printed on to the same form too which Mr and Mrs A later signed. The expectation is 
that applicant(s) would read and check the completed application before agreeing 
everything was correct. I dont think thats unreasonable.
Ive also seen quite a few similar complaints from that same time period. Whilst they are of 
course all different in nature, a common feature is that when PPI was sold with a 
Nationwide mortgage, insurance documents were generated as a consequence of that sale. 
Applicant(s) were then provided with a schedule saying who the PPI covered and what they 
were covered for. Mr and Mrs A say no such documents were received. However, Im afraid 
this doesnt mean their recollections are right after such a long time. 
The scenario whereby documents were generated is much more likely, and indeed 
strengthened in my view, because I also believe that Mr and Mrs A would have had to 
authorise the monthly PPI premium to leave their bank account each month. In this case, it 
was a fairly large monthly payment for the PPI, reflecting a somewhat large mortgage by 
the standards of the time. So, I find it very unlikely that Mr and Mrs A would not have been 
fully aware of this sum leaving their account each month and they would have probably 
signed a direct debit authorisation in this regard. The relevance of this is that there would 
have been a substantive discussion about this issue and having paid for such a policy, Mr 
and Mrs A would have reasonably expected to have paperwork associated with it. Given 
what Ive seen about the comprehensive way Mr and Mrs A seem to arrange their financial 
affairs, I find it very unlikely they wouldnt have raised issues they were unhappy about at 
the time. I think policy documents were more likely to have been duly issued to them.
All these things point to the PPI being something that Mr and Mrs A agreed to. And Im 
satisfied the correct consent was obtained to add the policy. The PPI box was ticked and 
the application went through with their agreement to pay for the cover.
I also note they cancelled the PPI policy, but not until a few years later. I think its 
reasonable to conclude that cancelling it would need an awareness that it had existed over 
several years. This too, corresponds with my experience that a yearly mortgage statement 
in the interim years would have been sent to Mr and Mrs A, reconfirming the existence of 
the PPI and how much it was costing them. I note we have good evidence of such 
statements being issued in the mid to late 90s in this case and the fact they cancelled it 
reinforces that they knew they could. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs A will probably disagree with my views on these matters, and Im 
very sorry to disappoint them. But there is good, solid evidence that PPI was indeed 
discussed and then selected as a result of that discussion. I think they would have known 
who and what was covered, and I think they agreed to have mortgage protection because it 
was something they found they had a use for at the time.This PPI sale was a non-advised one. This means the decision about having it was for Mr 
and Mrs A themselves to make. Nationwide needed only to provide information that was 
clear enough to fairly allow Mr and Mrs A to make that judgement. 
As Ive said, this was all a long time ago. Nationwide hasnt retained everything from the 
sale but thats not unreasonable. Businesses do not need to retain documents indefinitely 
so there being no record of a policy number now simply isnt unusual  its 23 years since 
the policy was cancelled. But as Ive said above, its much more likely, in my view, that Mr 
and Mrs A would have been told quite a lot about the policy. Im afraid I find it very unlikely 
that the insurers - having been asked on the application form for cover to be set up, and 
then being paid for the cover each month - would have failed to send out anything at all 
after the sale completion. I think Mr and Mrs A would have been provided with the relevant 
policy schedule and policy rules, relating to the cover. And if here were shortcomings in the 
sale process, as alleged, I think they would have been highly likely to raise the matter back 
then. I therefore think its much more likely that Mr and Mrs A had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice. 
On the other hand, its obviously quite possible that Nationwide could have done a better 
job at explaining things during the sale process. But even if I accept this, I still dont see any 
credible evidence that this would have changed what happened - I think Mr and Mrs A still 
would have bought the policy. This is because I think a discussion took place and they 
considered the cover to be of use in their situation; in short, they wanted the policy to cover 
a large mortgage in the event of something unexpected happening. 
Mr A appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. I dont know for sure why they opted for 
PPI, but their mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of them 
not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. I also note that in the event 
of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in 
addition to  and longer than - any other means Mr A already had in place at the time. I can 
therefore see why the policy would have been of use.
Overall, I think theres good evidence in this case that Mr and Mrs A engaged in the 
discussions about this PPI sale and they probably went through a number of steps to get 
the policy. I note they kept it going for several years and were kept up to date during that 
period as to the policys costs. 
Im very sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs A. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
I do not direct Nationwide Building Society to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman