DRN-3073887
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) incorrectly processed their 
mortgage application as a new mortgage, rather than a porting application, which meant 
they were charged a fee they shouldnt have been charged. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs H applied for a Barclays mortgage via a mortgage broker. Mr 
and Mrs H already held a Barclays mortgage at that time, so they say they intended to port 
their existing mortgage deal to the new mortgage, to avoid paying an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC). 
The new mortgage completed in December 2020 and around a week later Barclays 
contacted Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor to let them know that the previous mortgage couldnt be 
closed as there was an outstanding balance of around £2600  which was the ERC that Mr 
and Mrs H didnt think was payable. 
Barclays says that the mortgage application was entered incorrectly by Mr and Mrs Hs 
broker. It explains that the broker chose a new 2-year fixed rate product, as well as stating 
that the mortgage was to be ported from the previous product. But Barclays also accepted 
that it shouldve picked up this error during its underwriting process. 
Barclays offered to pay Mr and Mrs H half of the ERC, plus £200 in recognition of the 
inconvenience the issue had caused. Mrs and Mrs H didnt agree  as they thought Barclays 
shouldve prevented the situation occurring from the outset, so they believe Barclays should 
refund the full ERC. Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service for an impartial 
review.
Our investigator thought about everything but he thought Barclays had done enough to put 
things right. Whilst he acknowledged that Barclays had made errors, he also noted that the 
broker had also submitted the application incorrectly. So he thought Barclays offer of half of 
the ERC plus £200 was a fair and proportionate way to recognise Barclays part in the 
complaint, and to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im afraid Im not upholding the complaint, and I agree broadly with the 
investigators findings. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute as to whether Barclays made an error here. It has already accepted that 
and made an offer of compensation to recognise it. So my decision is focussed on whether 
that offer goes far enough to address the issue. 
Ive looked carefully at the application data submitted by Mr and Mrs Hs broker. It does very 
clearly state in the section Your existing mortgage with us that the mortgage is To be 
ported  so I do think Barclays shouldve recognised that. And theres another question 
which asks about whether the ERC would be added to the new mortgage being taken, which 
hasnt been answered  presumably because the broker, and Mr and Mrs H, didnt expect an 
ERC to be charged. 
But in the next section of the application, under Revised mortgage product, a new 
mortgage product has been selected; a fixed rate for two years. As this was a porting 
application, Mr and Mrs Hs broker shouldve known, and Im sure did know, that they 
wouldnt need to select a new mortgage product, as the existing product would be 
transferred  or ported  to the new mortgage. So I cant hold Barclays responsible for this 
as it didnt make this error or have any control over what was initially entered into the 
application. 
It could be argued that Barclays isnt responsible for this error at all. But as it has correctly 
noted, it could and should have picked up that an error had been made at underwriting 
stage. It also could have given Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor more information when they asked 
about the ERC. But as Barclays didnt make the initial error that saw this complaint come 
about, its not fair for me to hold it entirely responsible. 
Given that theres no clear one party at fault here, I think Barclays offer is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. Offering Mr and Mrs H a refund of half of the ERC 
seems a proportionate way to recognise Barclays contribution to what went wrong. And the 
additional offer of £200 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience the matter has 
caused is more than fair, so I dont require Barclays to offer anything else to put things right. 
Its also worth noting that although Mr and Mrs H have paid the ERC, the rate of their new 
mortgage product (1.59%) is lower than that of the rate they intended to port from their 
existing mortgage (1.97%). I understand this may not make up for all of the financial impact 
the error has had, but I hope the knowledge of it goes some way to helping them to move on 
from the problems theyve faced.
I realise that Mr and Mrs H may be disappointed with my decision, but I dont uphold their 
complaint. Barclays should, however, pay the offer of £1302.41 plus £200 it previously made 
to Mr and Mrs H, it if hasnt already done so. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman