DRN-3432106
The complaint
Ms K complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to terminate her income protection claim.
What happened
Ms K is covered by her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit in the event she cant work because of illness or injury.
In 2017, Ms K stopped work because of illness. She made a successful claim under the 
scheme. 
In 2020, L&G arranged for Ms K to have an independent medical examination (IME) with a 
specialist. After this, L&G concluded that Ms K no longer met the scheme definition of 
incapacity, and terminated her claim. Unhappy with this, Ms K brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought the evidence from Ms 
Ks treating specialist supported that she was still unable to work because of ill health. He 
recommended that L&G reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit, plus interest.
L&G didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme definition of incapacity is:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation
In terminating the claim, the onus is on L&G to show that Ms K no longer met the above 
definition of incapacity. L&Gs decision to terminate the claim was made after Ms K had an 
IME with Dr F (consultant psychiatrist) in May 2020. 
Ive considered Dr Fs report. He thought Ms K had work-related stress due to a number of 
unsatisfactory experiences in the workplace, and didnt think the evidence supported that 
she had a depressive disorder or adjustment disorder. Dr F explained that stress isnt an 
illness. 
I can understand why L&G had concerns about the claim after receiving Dr Fs report, 
though I agree with our investigator that L&G ought to have obtained Ms Ks treating 
specialists opinion before making the decision to terminate the claim.
Ms Ks treating consultant psychiatrist (Dr E) wrote a report in August 2020, a few weeks 
after L&G terminated the claim. Dr E confirmed that shed treated Ms K in 2012 for 
depression. She then kept in contact with Ms K over the following few years, and Ms K 
continued to be treated by way of antidepressant medication as well as psychological 
therapy. During that time, Ms K continued to work and cope with any work-related stress she 
experienced. 
Dr E then started treating Ms K again in January 2017 after she presented with a second 
episode of depression. Dr E acknowledged that Ms K was experiencing significant work-
related stress at that time (though continued to work), but she thought that by March 2017 
Ms K was presenting with a full house of biological symptoms of depression. She said that 
Ms Ks antidepressant medication was increased, and a new one added to her treatment 
regime.
Dr E agreed that Ms Ks illness episode since 2017 had run a protracted course, but she 
said the reason for that was due to some other stresses in Ms Ks personal life (other than 
just work-related stress) which meant her depressive episode had continued. Dr E said that 
being away from work had not helped improve Ms Ks mood, as might be expected if 
someone had work-related stress. In conclusion, Dr E confirmed that shed diagnosed Ms K 
with a recurrent major depressive disorder, and said that Ms Ks barrier for returning to work 
remained the symptoms of her depressive illness rather than an avoidance of work. She said 
Ms K wasnt capable at that time of performing the duties of her role due to her symptoms.
A letter was written by Dr L (consultant occupational physician) which commented on the two 
reports by Dr F and Dr E. I understand Dr L had treated Ms K, though I dont know for how 
long. He said he agreed with Dr Es opinion that Ms K had a long-term condition which, in his 
opinion, constituted an ongoing functional impairment leading to an incapacity to perform the 
essential duties of her occupation. 
Ive also read a further report written by Dr F in October 2020. He commented on Dr Es 
report of August 2020. Dr F remained of the view that Ms Ks presentation wasnt consistent 
with the presence of a depressive episode. 
Its clear that the two experts (Dr F and Dr E) have very different opinions over whether or 
not Ms K is experiencing a depressive illness. Theyve each pointed out issues with the 
others opinions and conclusions. However, I dont intend to comment on those points, as Im 
not medically qualified. Instead I need to decide which experts opinion holds the greatest 
weight. 
Dr F and Dr E are both equally qualified, however, Dr E has treated Ms K for many years. 
This is in contrast to Dr F who only met with Ms K for 90 minutes. That being the case, I 
think greater weight should be placed on Dr Es opinion. Given that Dr E thought Ms K 
couldnt work because of illness, it therefore follows that L&G should reinstate the claim.
 
L&G also says it thinks that Ms K is capable of engaging in normal work because shes been 
able to make jewellery, and promote some of her pieces at some exhibitions over the last 
few years. 
I see that Dr E had recommended that Ms K attend a weekly course to help with her illness. 
Also, Dr L confirmed that Ms K was encouraged to engage in weekly art therapy. I agree 
with our investigator that Ms Ks jewellery making (and participation in a small number of 
events) is not comparable to the essential duties of her role for her employer, so I dont 
agree with L&G that this supports that Ms K no longer met the definition of incapacity. L&G is of the view that Dr E may not be fully informed about the extent of Ms Ks self-
employed activities. However, I see that Dr E has read and commented upon Dr Fs 
addendum report of October 2020, and he detailed Ms Ks jewellery making activities in 
some detail within that report. Im therefore satisfied that Dr E is aware of Ms Ks activities in 
that respect.
Since terminating the claim, L&G has pointed out to this service that for a claim to be paid 
the member should not be engaging in any other occupation, other than one which causes 
payment of a partial benefit. L&G didnt terminate the claim because it thought Ms K was 
engaged in another occupation, and so it isnt appropriate for L&G to try and rely on a 
different reason to support its claims decision at such a late stage. 
Though in any event, the scheme allows a disabled member to take up another occupation 
and explains that if this results in a loss of earnings due to the illness, then the member will 
still be considered disabled and partial benefit will be payable. Ms K says she hasnt made 
any money out of making jewellery, and only does it as a hobby. If L&G thinks differently and 
wishes to pay partial benefit as a result, then it should make a claims decision on this in line 
with the scheme terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit due, in line with the scheme 
terms and conditions. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each benefit 
payment was due to the date of settlement.
If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms K how much its taken off. It should also give Ms K a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman