DRN-2849883
The complaint
Mr H complains about interest applied to his credit card account by Lloyds Bank PLC.
  
What happened
Mr H has a credit card account with Lloyds. In 2019, he transferred a balance to the account 
on an interest-free promotion which was due to expire on 13 May 2020. He wrote to Lloyds 
on 29 April 2020 asking to extend the interest-free period by six or 12 months. He explained 
the reasons for this request. He didnt hear anything, so he wrote again on 14 May 2020. Mr 
H explained that hed tried to get through to Lloyds on the phone but hadnt been able to 
speak to anyone who could help with his query. He asked for a response to his letter of 29 
April and said he would like to discuss his proposal. 
In mid-June, Mr H received a letter from Lloyds dated 4 March 2020. Given the date, Mr H 
wasnt sure whether this was a response to his letters of 29 April and 14 May. Lloyds letter 
said it wasnt possible to review the interest rate on the card as the terms and conditions 
arent individually negotiable.
Mr H wrote again on 26 June 2020. He didnt think his request for an extension had been 
considered and asked for his proposal to be passed to someone for consideration. Lloyds 
treated this as a complaint and responded on 5 August 2020. They looked at the interest 
which had been applied to the account and explained how it was calculated. But their letter 
didnt say anything about Mr Hs request to extend the interest-free period.
In the meantime, the interest-free period had come to an end on 13 May 2020. On that date, 
there was an outstanding balance on the account. Mr H made two payments in July 2020 to 
clear the balance. But interest and charges had been applied from 13 May 2020 and Mr Hs 
payments didnt cover these. 
Mr H doesnt think he should have to pay the interest. He says it arose because Lloyds didnt 
respond to his original request to extend the interest-free period. He asked this service to 
look into it. Our investigator thought that Lloyds could have handled Mr Hs request better. 
But, overall, he didnt think they had acted unfairly so he didnt ask them to do anything. 
Since then, Lloyds have confirmed that the date on their initial letter to Mr H was wrong. It 
was dated 4 March 2020 but should have been dated 2 June 2020, which is when it was 
sent. Lloyds have confirmed that this letter was a response to Mr Hs request to extend the 
interest-free period. They say that interest has been applied to Mr Hs account correctly and 
that the interest-free period couldnt have been extended as thats not something theyd do. 
But Lloyds acknowledged that the letter didnt specifically refer to Mr Hs request, nor did the 
Final Response Letter. Lloyds also accept that customers had issues when trying to 
communicate with them by phone during the pandemic.
 
In light of these issues, Lloyds offered £75 to Mr H as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. Mr H was willing to accept this sum and suggested it be 
credited to the outstanding balance on his account. But he also wanted Lloyds to remove the 
adverse entries about the account from his credit file. Lloyds didnt agree to this, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account confirm the interest rates that apply to any 
remaining balance after the end of a promotional period. The standard interest rates from 
time to time are also shown on Mr Hs monthly statements. His March 2020 statement 
contained a message confirming that the interest-free promotion would expire on 13 May 
2020. It also stated the rate of interest which would apply to any remaining balance from that 
date. There was an outstanding balance on the account when the interest-free period 
expired. So Im satisfied that, in the absence of any other agreement having been reached 
between Mr H and Lloyds, Lloyds were entitled to charge interest on the balance from 13 
May 2020.
Im satisfied that Mr H knew when the promotional period was due to end as he referred to it 
in his initial letter to Lloyds. But the crux of this complaint is that Mr H didnt think Lloyds had 
answered his request to extend the interest-free period. Lloyds have now clarified that they 
wrote to Mr H on 2 June 2020 to decline his request. But, given the incorrect date on the 
letter and the lack of direct reference within it (and subsequent letters) to the interest-free 
period or why Lloyds didnt agree to extend it, I can understand why Mr H didnt think his 
request had been answered.
That said, Mr H knew when the interest-free period was due to expire and what the rate of 
interest would be on any remaining balance. His request for the extension was sent to 
Lloyds around two weeks before the expiry date. This didnt give Lloyds long to respond. 
But, even if Lloyds had been able to respond more quickly, and even if their letters had been 
written more clearly without any errors, Lloyds werent under any obligation to agree to Mr 
Hs request. 
In the absence of any positive response to Mr Hs request, the default position was that 
interest would be charged on his outstanding balance from 13 May 2020 onwards. The fact 
that Mr H believed his request was outstanding didnt change that. And, even though the 
letter dated 4 March 2020 didnt directly refer to Mr Hs request, the overall message it 
conveyed was that the interest rate on the card couldnt be reviewed. I think this indicated 
that his request hadnt or wouldnt be agreed. And his statements made it clear that interest 
was being charged from 13 May 2020.
Mr H says that the interest arose while he was waiting for a response and that, from his point 
of view, it was possible that Lloyds would still agree to his request. He says he tried to 
contact Lloyds several times by phone but wasnt ever able to speak to someone who could 
deal with the request. I can understand his point of view. But without a positive response 
from Lloyds, I think its fair to say that Mr H should have realised that he would be charged 
interest from 13 May 2020 onwards. The statements confirmed that this was happening.
I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably or unfairly by applying interest to the account from 
13 May 2020. Their agreement with Mr H said they would do this. And they didnt have to 
agree to his request to extend the interest-free period. For the reasons above, I think that Mr 
H knew or ought reasonably to have known that interest was being applied from 13 May 
2020 and that this would affect his account balance, meaning that the payments he made in 
July 2020 didnt bring the balance down to zero. Mr H was responsible for keeping the account in order. He didnt make any payments to the 
account between July and November 2020, nor between November 2020 and February 
2021. Lloyds has a duty to report accurate information about Mr Hs account to the credit 
reference agencies. In the circumstances here, I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to 
remove the adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file.
But Lloyds made some mistakes in their communications with Mr H. They could have made 
it clearer that his request had been considered and declined. And, through no fault of Mr Hs, 
he wasnt able to discuss the situation over the phone with Lloyds in any meaningful way at 
the time. I think Lloyds should pay him some compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience these issued caused. Taking everything into account, I think compensation of 
£75 would be fair here. If Lloyds chooses to pay this by applying it as a credit to Mr Hs 
account, that would be acceptable.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC 
should pay compensation of £75 to Mr H.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman