DRN-3192443
The complaint
Mr O makes a number of complaints about the way The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (RL) has handled his pension policies. He says that RL has misled him on a 
number of issues causing him distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Over the years, Mr O has had four separate pension policies with RL. Mr O cashed in three 
of his policies in July 2020. He received around (net) £33,332. The fourth policy had lapsed 
and ceased to have any value. 
Mr O made several complaints to RL and referred the following to our service: 
RL owe him £2,000 in respect of the lapsed policy. Mr O disputes this saying it was 
lost by RL. He considers he is still owed £2,000 from this policy, which he says RL 
has promised to pay him (I will refer to this policy as the disputed policy).
In November 2019, an RL agent told him that he (Mr O) was entitled to £66,000 when 
in fact it was much lower than this.
Mr O has paid more tax than he should have done and this was RLs fault.
RL is refusing to speak to him. He thinks this is indicative of its poor customer service 
which has caused him a great deal of stress and has caused him to become ill. 
In summary, responses to Mr Os complaints are as follows:
The disputed policy
RL answered this complaint on 18 January 2017 in its final response letter of this 
date and followed this up with another response to the same complaint a year later. 
In its final response letter it told Mr O he had six months to refer the matter to our 
service and that if he did not do so, it would not consent to our service looking at the 
matter. RL confirmed on 29 July 2021 that it did not consent to our service looking at 
this matter and considered the matter was out of time.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service on 17 October 2020. Our investigator said 
this matter was out of time because Mr O referred the complaint more than six 
months after he received the final response letter from RL. She also didnt think 
exceptional circumstances were the reason for the delay. 
Incorrect quote given on 26 November 2019
Mr O complained that RL misled him about the amount he would receive from his 
pensions. During a call with one of its agents on 26 November 2019, he (Mr O) was 
told he would receive around £66,000 which was incorrect and he actually received 
just over £33,000.
In its final response letter dated 5 May 2020, RL accepted it made a mistake. It said 
its agent had told Mr O that he was due £61,000 (not £66,000) and this was 
incorrect. To put things right, RL offered Mr O £100 for the distress this had caused 
him. But Mr O wanted RL to honour the higher quotation which he said was £66,000. 
Our investigator didnt think RL needed to honour the quote because it was made in 
error and Mr O was never entitled to the higher sum. She was satisfied the £100 paid 
to Mr O by way of compensation was fair and reasonable particularly as the error 
was corrected within two days.
Taxation of Mr Os pensions
Another complaint made by Mr O was about the level of tax that applied to his 
pension policies when he made his claim in 2020. He wanted RL to refund him the 
tax he paid as he said it made a mistake. He says RL told him that he would receive 
a refund of £9,800 which he says had turned out not to be true. Mr O maintains he 
simply doesnt earn enough money to pay the tax RL deducted from his pensions 
and he thinks it owes him a substantial refund for this issue.
In a final response letter dated 19 March 2021, RL said it reviewed the matter and 
said that the tax deducted from Mr Os pension was correctly applied. It said it had 
already explained this to Mr O in an email dated 17 August 2020. Our investigator 
didnt think RL had done anything wrong in this regard and said that it wasnt 
responsible for the level of tax Mr O was required to pay. She noted this was a matter 
for HMRC.
Customer Service
In October 2020, RL indicated to Mr O that it would no longer be communicating 
about the issues it had already dealt with. Mr O says RL will no longer deal with his 
calls and it shouldnt treat a customer like this. He says RL has caused him a great 
deal of stress in the way it has dealt with him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding this element of Mr Os complaint. She 
noted that as Mr O was no longer a customer of RL, it was its choice about how and/ 
or whether it communicated with Mr O.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators view on the issues he raised. So, he asked for the 
matter to be escalated to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out her reasoning to Mr Os complaints in her views, which I broadly 
agree with. Ill explain why.
The disputed policy
The complaint about the disputed policy  that RL was responsible for Mr O losing out on 
around £2,000  was dealt with by RL on 18 January 2017. It subsequently changed its offer 
and sent Mr O another final response letter on 9 January 2018. Mr O referred his complaint 
to our service in October 2020. The final response letters sent to Mr O said: If you do remain unhappy, then I must tell you 
that you do have the right to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, free 
of charge  but you must do so within 6 months of the date of this letter. The final response 
letters went on to say: If you do not refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not 
have our permission to consider your complaint. As I noted above, RL has more recently 
confirmed it does not consent to our service looking at these matters.
The Financial Ombudsman Service does not have the power to consider a complaint that 
has been referred to it outside the six-month time limit. This is set out in the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP) rules under DISP 2.8.2. This section says, when 
a matter is out of time, our service can only look into the complaint if the business consents 
 RL hasnt  or if exceptional circumstances apply. 
From what I can see, Mr O was able to continue complaining about the same and other 
matters on several occasions with RL both by phone and in writing (by email). So, I cant see 
any exceptional circumstances which would have prevented Mr O from bringing his 
complaint to our service within the six month timescale of either the 2017 or 2018 final 
response letters. Therefore, I consider this matter is out of time and as a result, our service 
doesnt have the power to consider it. 
Mr O has said RL recently retracted on what it said in 2017 and 2018. He says it has since 
promised to pay him £2,000 for funds owed to him under the disputed policy. But from 
everything Ive seen, I think RL has consistently told Mr O that it dealt with this issue in 2017 
and again in 2018. So, Im satisfied this matter is out of time for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
Incorrect quote given on 26 November 2019
Theres no dispute that RL provided Mr O with incorrect information during a call on 
26 November 2019 with one of its agents. Mr O says he was told he would receive £66,000 
but from what I can see, the agent told Mr O that his pension funds totalled around £61,000. 
Either way, Mr O only received £33,000 net of tax when he claimed his pensions so the 
agent clearly overstated the amounts he (Mr O) could expect to receive. 
Clearly this was an unfortunate mistake. And I can understand why Mr O is upset with RL 
about this. But whilst I know Mr O says RL should honour the higher amount, he doesnt 
have any entitlement to this. So, I think to award the incorrect quote would amount to unjust 
enrichment as Mr O was never entitled to this sum. On balance, I think RLs offer of £100 
already paid to Mr O in recognition of this mistake is fair and reasonable, particularly as he 
received correct information within two days of the error.
Taxation of Mr Os pension policies
The letter sent to Mr O on 11 February 2020 about his upcoming planned retirement date in 
July 2020, included generic information about the tax implications on his pensions. Similarly, 
the Retirement Pack he was sent had more detailed information about the tax implications 
on his pension benefits. 
RL also sent Mr O letters for each policy dated 8 July 2020 explaining what tax would be 
deducted from each pension policy. Amongst other things, these letters gave detailed 
explanations of how Mr O could claim back any tax from HMRC if he thought hed overpaid 
any amounts. These letters attached Mr Os P45 to show the basic rate tax bracket RL had 
used to calculate the tax taken from his pension payments. As our investigator has said, RL is not responsible for the level of tax that Mr O needed to pay. And it is for Mr O to reclaim 
any overpaid amounts directly from HMRC.  
Whilst Mr O says that RL misled him about what he could claim back from HMRC  he says 
RL said he would be able to claim back £9,800 within a year of paying the tax on his 
pensions  Ive not seen any evidence of this. Overall, Im of the view the information Mr O 
was sent by RL about the tax implications on his pensions was clear, fair and not misleading 
such that he could make an informed choice about how to proceed. So, I think RL has acted 
fairly and reasonably in terms of this particular issue and Im not upholding this aspect of 
Mr Os complaint.
Customer service
Mr O says he is unhappy that RL will no longer deal with him over the phone and that it 
shouldnt treat customers this way. But as RL said in an email dated 2 October 2020: all 
the business [Mr O] held with Royal London has now ceased and you have no further 
policies with us. Any further requests for us to pay out policies will not be actioned and any 
inconvenience caused on the back of these will not be compensated as we have made it 
clear previously over the phone and by email that you have no further business with 
ourselves.
So, now that Mr O is no longer a customer of RL, I think its entitled in the reasonable 
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to decide if it wants to communicate with 
Mr O and/ or how it wishes to do this. I think RL has clearly told Mr O the reasons for this. 
Ive noted what Mr O has said about the impact of RLs actions on his health and time. Im 
sorry to hear this is the case. But I think RL has provided Mr O with answers to his concerns 
and as it has said, all the business it has had with him has now ceased. Overall, I think RL 
has dealt with Mr Os questions and concerns in a reasonable and fair way, and I dont think 
it needs to do anything further to resolve matters.
My final decision
The complaint about the disputed policy is outside of our jurisdiction because it has been 
referred too late. I dont uphold the other parts of Mr Os complaints for the above reasons.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman