DRN-3347446
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Is complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) relates to the 
redemption of their mortgage. They feel that the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) has been 
incorrectly calculated and that they should be given credit for a 10% annual overpayment 
allowance, prior to the ERC calculation being performed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took a mortgage with RBS in December 2016 over 23 years. In November 
2018 they agreed a variation to their mortgage. They agreed to an interest only five-year 
fixed rate due to end on 31 December 2023, which provided for an ERC that varied in 
amount depending on when the mortgage was redeemed. In June 2021 Mr and Mrs I 
redeemed their mortgage and RBS charged an ERC equivalent to 3% of the outstanding 
mortgage balance. 
Mr and Mrs I feel that before RBS calculated the ERC, it should have first deducted from the 
outstanding mortgage balance 10% of that balance, being the sum they were allowed to 
overpay annually. They argue that the ERC should then be applied to the balance left 
outstanding. 
RBS doesnt agree and says it hasnt done anything wrong. It says it has acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. It agrees that Mr and Mrs I were 
allowed to make overpayments of up to 10% per year, but states that in their case what they 
did was redeem the entire mortgage, not make an overpayment to reduce the balance. 
Mr and Mrs I were unhappy with RBSs final response and so approached this service to see 
if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that RBS hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr and Mrs I didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint lies within what Mr and Mrs I agreed to when they varied the 
mortgage in 2018.
At paragraph 7 of the mortgage illustration it sets out that Mr and Mrs I have the right to 
repay the loan early, either fully or partially. In particular it states
If you repay all or any part of your mortgage on or before the end of the fixed rate 
term, you will have to pay an Early Repayment Charge on the amount repaid. Unless 
permitted under the terms of any incentive set out in Section 8 of this Illustration
I think this clause makes clear that Mr and Mrs I knew that an ERC was potentially payable if 
they repaid part, or all of their mortgage before the end of the fixed term. Further on in that 
same paragraph there is a table indicating what the potential ERC could be, in percentage 
terms, depending on when repayment was made. I dont think there is any dispute in 
principle to a charge being made, or that the correct percentage rate is 3%.
There is also a caveat which tells Mr and Mrs I that should they decide to repay their loan 
early, they should contact RBS to ascertain the exact level of the ERC at that moment in 
time. I have not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs I did make contact with RBS, although 
the absence of such contact is not entirely determinative of the issue under complaint.
Paragraph 8 of the mortgage illustration contains a section dealing with overpayments. It 
says,
You can make overpayments on this mortgage.
 You can overpay a maximum of 10% of your outstanding mortgage balance in each 
12- month period commencing on completion of your mortgage and continuing from 
each anniversary of that date until the end date of this rate, without incurring an Early 
Repayment Charge. If your mortgage is made up of more than one part, you can 
overpay up to a maximum of 10% of the outstanding balance of each part.
As I understand Mr and Mrs Is argument, it is that in making a final redemption payment in 
June 2021, contained within that was a 10% annual overpayment. In other words, the 
redemption payment could be notionally split into two payments: a 10% of balance 
overpayment, and then a final balance redemption. Of course, the immediate problem with 
that argument is that as a fact, in Mr and Mrs Is case, only one payment was made, not two.
The other difficulty with Mr and Mrs Is argument is that the logical interpretation of the 
overpayment clause must be that having made the maximum 10% balance overpayment 
there would remain a mortgage in existence at the end of the year. In Mr and Mrs Is case 
that did not happen because the only payment they made redeemed the entire mortgage.
I know Mr and Mrs I have said that the mortgage offer and illustration doesnt state that they 
can only receive the annual allowance when a part payment is made, but Im afraid I 
disagree. My interpretation of the documentation is that it says precisely that. It provides for 
a repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance in any one year, necessarily meaning that 
there would be a balance subsisting thereafter. In Mr and Mrs Is case there was not since it 
was redeemed. And, I return to my earlier point that the payment they made, was in fact one 
payment. The natural interpretation of that is that it was a final balance redemption payment, 
not, a 10% overpayment followed by a redemption payment.
So, in conclusion, I do not think that RBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably here as it has 
applied the terms of the agreement Mr and Mrs I entered into correctly. Ando, although Mr 
and Mrs I will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say RBS has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman