DRN-2749220
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt refunded 
the premium they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 17 January 
2020.
They paid £1,019.84 for the standard level of cover which also covered them both for some 
medical conditions theyd declared. The premium included a discount of £25.96 and the 
policy covered their holiday from 14 September 2020 to 24 September 2020.
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their holiday on 21 May 2020. And on 30 May 2020, they contacted 
Great Lakes to cancel their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes cancelled the policy and explained to Mr and Mrs M that they could change 
their travel dates within 18 months of the purchase date of the policy, as long as this was 
done before their travel dates expired. Or, they could cancel the policy and provide a pro-
rata credit voucher for the amount of £492.79 and which would be valid for three years. The 
credit voucher was calculated from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Great Lakes response and referred their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Initially the refund was calculated from
23 May 2020 but since then, the investigator requested Great Lakes to calculate it from 21 
May 2020 which was when the holiday was cancelled. So Great Lakes amended the
refund voucher to be calculated from 21 May 2020  the amended amount was £501.09.
Our investigator said she was satisfied that Great Lakes had offered Mr and Mrs M a fair 
refund even though there was no requirement for them to be given one. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. They said they wanted 
a cash refund as they dont think theyll be able to use the voucher due to their age and 
medical conditions. They also said theyd been to see a solicitor and they agreed 
Mr and Mrs M should be allowed a cash refund and found law in support of this.
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs M held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if they had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled to a full
refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them cancelling
the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy with Great Lakes outline the 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund the premium you have
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to
make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy was purchased on 
17 January 2020 and cancelled on 30 May 2020. This was more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term
relating to discretion is intended to cover. This means I dont think Mr and Mrs M are entitled 
to any refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of her control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms contract because of the exceptional 
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ms 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 17 January 
2020. Mr and Mrs M werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes 
also covered Mr and Mrs M for cancellation cover from 17 January 2020. So, the premium 
they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a number of 
listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr and Mrs M falling ill with a 
declared pre-existing medical condition.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs M making a successful claim on the policy 
from 17 January 2020 and their holiday was cancelled on 21 May 2020. Its a fundamental
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what 
Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time.
However, after 21 May 2020 due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under
Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy. The holiday had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 
and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the
holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any
claim being made while Mr and Mrs M was travelling abroad.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from 21 May 2020.
How the refund should be paid
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Ms
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ms reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved 
to a future date. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to
Mr and Mrs M. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances.
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable,
so it can be used by either Mr and Mrs M or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy 
a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip.
I understand why Mr and Mrs M may not wish to use a voucher because they say they dont 
intend to travel due to their age and their medical conditions. Ive considered what theyve 
told us. However, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably 
restrictive, so I think the voucher of £501.09 offered is a fair offer in the circumstances. I 
appreciate they had no control over this cancellation, and they dont intend on travelling 
abroad but the terms of the voucher are that it is fully transferrable and valid for 36 months.
And I can see Mr and Mrs M have said theyve seen a solicitor who has agreed with them 
that a cash refund should be provided, and they have found law which shows this. Mr and 
Mrs M have sent us information referring to the The Law Reform (Frustrated Contracts) Act 
1943 and s.49 of The Consumer Rights Act 2015. They say that as the policy is no longer 
the service they had contracted to receive and it cannot be performed as originally agreed, 
they are entitled to receive a full refund. 
Our role is not to act as a consumer champion but instead to look at what both sides have 
presented along with all the relevant rules that apply. Ive considered the points that 
Mr and Mrs M have made in relation to the legislation. But Ive set out above what I consider 
to be the relevant industry rules and guidance and what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. Ive explained why I think the credit voucher is fair and 
reasonable taking into account that ordinarily Mr and Mrs M wouldnt be entitled to a refund 
whatsoever. Additionally, I understand that consumer protection groups have informed 
Mr and Mrs M they dont have to accept the credit voucher. But Im satisfied that its fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to offer them a voucher rather than a cash refund.  
The calculation of the voucher
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period
of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances.
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Ms unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs M paid for this policy was for a period of 
approximately 252 days from 17 January 2020 to 24 September 2020.The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs M equates to the 
premiums equivalent to 127 unused days of cover from the date the policy was cancelled 
until the planned end date of the trip on 24 September 2020.
But Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from the date the holiday
was cancelled. So, I think Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Ms voucher 
from 21 May 2020.
Overall, I think the value of the voucher offered by Great Lakes of £501.09 is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied 
the refund voucher offered by Great Lakes Insurance SE for the amount of £501.09 is fair 
and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman