DRN-3753021
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118 118 Money, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Madison approved one loan for Mr S on 10 July 2020 for £1,000 plus interest repayable over 
24 months at £78.11 each month. He paid it off early in October 2021 with a lump payment 
of around £608. 
After Madisons final response letter did not uphold his complaint, Mr S referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators thought that at the time the loan was approved the repayment for 
this loan, in addition to Mr S existing credit commitments represented a significant 
proportion of his income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that he wouldnt 
have been able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again.
Mr S agreed to this outcome and Madison did not respond. The unresolved complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr S  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation. 
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I have decided to uphold the complaint and for the same reasons as our adjudicator. 
Madison had Mr S details from his application which was that he earned £2,500 a month 
and was living at home with his parents and so his outgoings were relatively low for 
household expenditure - £200 each month. He also declared insurance costs of £110 plus 
£900 a month for cards and loans. And the credit file Madison obtained at the time, a copy 
of which has been sent to me, shows the following details which I have summarised:
- £8,000 debt balance on credit cards and going through the lists of his credit cards 
then some were at a zero balance and some were at their limits. Either way it was 
noticeable Mr S was repaying his cards at minimum payments only and that rate was 
around 3%. So, calculating what Mr S had to pay just to his credit cards was around 
£240 each month at that rate of 3% - which I think was a modest rate. Usually Id 
calculate that to be 3.5% or 5%. But I have used this lower figure of £240 a month 
(3%) for this decision
-  Hire purchase with a  £14,000 balance and costing £276 each month
- Other loans which all together came to around £25,000 and was costing Mr S about 
£621 each month
So, Mr S declaration of around £900 a month on cards and loans was about right. I add it up 
to be around £1,137 (cards and HP and loans). Add to this the £78 a month for the Madison 
loan and its clear that Mr S would have been repaying around £1,215 each month on all his 
credit commitments. 
This information was known to Madison at the time and represented about 48% of Mr S 
declared net income. This was too high a proportion of his income to be sustainable. I uphold Mr S complaint.  
Putting things right
Mr S has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Madison should refund all interest and charges 
as follows: 
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
treat any payments made by Mr S as payments towards the capital amount. 
if he has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% simple 
interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
him a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and I direct that Madison CF UK Limited, 
trading as 118 118 Money, puts things right for Mr S as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman