DRN-2342550
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside a further advance in 1995. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Halifax has given me a number of documents from the time of the 
sale. Mr and Mrs S already had a mortgage with Halifax and in 1995 they applied for a 
further advance. It was during this meeting that they also took out PPI. The further 
advance application form had a separate section for PPI and gave the option for Mr and 
Mrs S to apply for it by writing either a Y for yes or an N for no in the box. I can see 
they wrote Y indicating that they were interested in the insurance and wanted to apply 
for it. 
They then completed a separate PPI application form in which the monthly cost and 
benefit were clearly set out for them. In this form, they requested for Mr S only to be 
covered under the policy and he answered some basic questions about his 
circumstances. Having considered everything available to me, on balance, I think Mr and 
Mrs S were aware the PPI was an optional product and they chose to take it out.  
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for Mr S. And the evidence about Mr Ss circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr S was eligible for the 
cover and although he had relatively good sick pay with his employer, the policy would 
have covered him for up to 24 months per claim if he was unable to work due to accident 
or sickness and up to 12 months per claim if he was unemployed. And this would have 
been in addition to the benefits he had with his employer. 
There was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr S says he had an injury some time before the policy 
was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have recommended it. I say this 
because the injury occurred around 11 years before the policy was taken out and Mr S 
hasnt mentioned any ongoing or recurring issues in relation to it. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs S would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman