DRN-3772489
The complaint
Mr R has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurance (UKI) are 
refusing to cover the costs of issuing notices to tenants in a property he owns the freehold 
to.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to UKI I mean both the underwriter and any agents 
working on its behalf.
What happened
In 2016 UKI declined a claim brought to it by Mr R in relation to a tenant dispute. The claim 
was refused on the basis that UKI didnt think it had reasonable prospects of success. 
The history of the claim is not in dispute and well known to both parties, so I wont reproduce 
it in full. The relevant consideration for this element of Mr Rs complaint is that in May 2021 a 
barrister reviewed Mr Rs claim again and found that unless notices were served to his 
tenants, to allow Mr R to inspect the properties, he would be unable to establish whether or 
not his claim might be successful in court. Without this proof the claim would continue to be 
declined due to lack of prospects and so counsel advised Mr R, or representatives acting on 
his behalf, to serve the relevant notices on his tenants. 
Mr R believes UKI should cover the costs of hiring solicitors to arrange and serve the 
relevant notices. 
UKI believe that until the claim is accepted its not obliged to cover any of Mr Rs legal costs 
and that if he wants solicitors to serve notices on his tenants he needs to it himself. It has 
said the onus is on Mr R to prove hes got grounds to claim, not for UKI to do this for him.
Unhappy with UKIs response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and found that the claim had been reasonably 
declined by UKI and that if Mr R wanted to serve notices on his tenants he would need to 
cover the associated costs himself.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision and 
so his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint and for much the same reasons as the 
investigator.
I would like to clarify that this decision will only comment on those issues relating to UKIs 
refusal to cover the legal costs associated with serving notices to Mr Rs tenants. Mr R has 
sent in a lot of commentary around the barristers opinion and how he has interpreted it. 
However, its not appropriate for this service to comment on legal advice, or how it should be 
interpreted. Instead, my focus is on whether or not UKI has behaved reasonably in relation 
to the policy Mr R purchased and whether or not it should be responsible for any legal costs 
associated with the notices Mr R has been advised to issue. I will not be commenting on 
issues outside of this.
Mr R has already had a decision from this service explaining that UKI were entitled to refuse 
his claim on the grounds of prospects of success and so that element of the complaint 
doesnt need to be addressed here. Instead, I will only look at whether or not UKI is obliged 
to pay Mr Rs costs of getting the notices to inspect the properties.
Mr R has interpreted counsels opinion of May 2021 as saying that once notices have been 
issued he will be able to inspect the properties and get the evidence he needs to prove his 
claim does have prospects of success. So, on this basis he believes UKI should cover the 
costs of obtaining the notices. 
UKI have read the opinion as saying once notices have been served Mr R may be able to 
uncover evidence to support his claim. But thats not guaranteed, and the claim wouldnt be 
accepted unless such evidence did become available. Therefore, it doesnt believe its liable 
for any of Mr Rs legal costs because theres still no guarantee that the evidence the notices 
may provide would make a difference to the claims likely success in court.
I dont think UKI have been unreasonable in interpreting the barristers opinion in this way. 
And until such a time as Mr Rs claim is approved by UKI it is not liable for any of his legal 
costs. So, if Mr R wants to obtain the relevant notices to gain access to the properties in 
dispute he will need to cover the preliminary costs himself. If, once these notices have been 
served, they result in Mr R obtaining additional evidence that supports his claim, UKI should 
reconsider it at that time and confirm whether or not the new evidence increases the process 
of success. 
My final decision
Therefore, for the reasons set out above, I dont think UK Insurance Limited trading as NIG 
Insurance are obliged to cover the costs of getting solicitors to serve notices to Mr Rs 
tenants and I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman