DRN-3797347
The complaint
Mr L complains that Covea Insurance Plc avoided his car insurance policy (that is, treated it 
like it never existed) and turned down his claim.
What happened
Mr L took out a car insurance policy with Covea through an insurance broker. In 
December 2020 he called the broker to add his son as a named driver. In March 2022 Mr Ls 
car was involved in an accident while his son was driving and he tried to make a claim. 
Covea declined the claim and avoided his policy. It said Mr L had answered the question it 
asked about providing details of any motoring convictions, driving licence endorsements, 
fixed penalties or disqualifications in the last five year. And Mr L had disclosed none. But 
when it had checked his sons record, it found that his licence had been endorsed with 
several convictions, including two periods of disqualification. Covea considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy, 
decline his claim and keep the premium hed already paid. Mr L wasnt happy and 
complained.
Covea didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. But in its response, it said it believed the 
misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless, and it would return his 
premiums. Covea later clarified that this was a mistake. It believed the misrepresentation 
was reckless or deliberate but as it had said (in error) that it would return Mr Ls premium, it 
had decided to honour that commitment. 
Mr L brought his complaint to this service and our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless. They said it was fair for Covea not to 
take action on Mr Ls claim as his son was involved in that. But they thought it should 
remove the avoidance from internal and external databases, amend any records to show 
that the policy was cancelled by Mr L, provide a letter for him to give to his new insurer to 
explain the above, compensate him for any rise in premiums caused by the voidance, and 
pay him £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Covea doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer doesnt do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose that his sons licence had been endorsed with several previous motor 
convictions.
Ive thought about whether this was fair. And in doing so Ive listened to the call Mr L made 
to the broker in December 2020. Mr L contacted the broker to ask about adding his son to 
his policy. During the conversation he was asked if his son had any motoring convictions, 
fixed driving licence endorsements, any fixed penalties or been disqualified from driving in 
the last five years. Mr Ls answer to this was Not as far as I know. Mr L thinks the broker 
should have done more at this point as he believes his answer suggested uncertainty. He 
thinks the broker should have encouraged him to check the accuracy of his answer or 
requested further information. Mr Ls complaint about the broker has been considered 
separately and I wont comment on it here.
Having listened to the call, I think it was fair for Covea to say Mr L didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. Im satisfied the question put by the broker was clear. 
Mr L was required to answer the brokers questions to the best of his knowledge and belief. 
If he didnt know the answer, I think it was reasonable to expect him to have said this and 
checked the accuracy of his answer with his son. We know that Mr Ls son did have several 
motoring convictions at that time. So, I dont think Mr L took reasonable care. 
Because I dont think Mr L took reasonable care, I now need to look at what Covea would 
have done if hed answered its questions correctly and disclosed his sons motoring 
convictions. Covea has shown us its underwriting guidance on this. It says it wouldnt have 
offered insurance to Mr L had it known about the convictions his son had endorsed on his 
licence. And the underwriting criteria supports that. 
Since I dont think Mr L took reasonable care when he renewed the policy, and as Covea 
has shown it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr L had he disclosed details of his sons 
motoring convictions, I think Mr Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation for 
the purposes of CIDRA.
So, in line with CIDRA, I now need to look at whether Mr Ls misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, as Covea says it was (although it mistakenly said it was careless). 
CIDRA says a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew that it was 
untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue and misleading, and knew 
that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or did not 
care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. 
Mr L says he didnt know his son had motoring convictions when he added his son to the 
policy in December 2020. He says he didnt think about asking his son about any convictions 
as he hadnt told him of any. He said that was why he answered the question as not as far 
as I know. Mr L also said that when Covea had made him aware of his sons convictions, he 
asked his son to confirm that information. Mr L said his son confirmed he did have 
convictions but said his son hadnt said anything to him because he hadnt asked. 
Covea said it didnt believe Mr Ls misrepresentation was careless as he didnt just forget, he 
chose not to ask his son the relevant questions. And so, he didnt take reasonable care to make sure a misrepresentation didnt occur. I dont dispute that Mr L didnt take reasonable 
care. As Ive set out above, I think Covea has shown that Mr L didnt take reasonable care. 
But, on balance and in light of what Mr L has told us about the convictions, I dont think 
Covea has shown that Mr L deliberately misrepresented information. And I havent seen 
anything to think he didnt care whether the information Covea had was correct. So, I think 
Mr Ls misrepresentation should be treated as careless rather than deliberate or reckless.  
CIDRA says that if the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can only avoid the 
contract if it wouldnt have offered it on any terms. Covea has shown that it wouldnt have 
offered insurance to Mr L with his son as a named driver. But it hasnt shown that it wouldnt 
have continued Mr Ls policy had his son not been added to the policy. So, I dont think 
Covea has acted fairly and reasonably by treating Mr Ls policy as if it never existed. Instead, 
I think it would have been fairer had it amended the policy and removed cover for Mr Ls son.
Putting things right
As Mr Ls son was driving the car at the time of the accident, I think it was reasonable for 
Covea not to assess the claim Mr L made. But I think Covea should remove all references to 
Mr Ls policy being avoided from all internal and external databases. Instead, it should 
amend its records to show the policy was cancelled by Mr L. Covea should also confirm to 
Mr L in writing what it has done. He can then share that with any new insurers so any impact 
of the avoidance on his premiums can be taken into account. If Mr Ls new insurer is unable 
to adjust his premiums and can evidence that the avoidance affected them, Covea should 
compensate Mr L for any amount hes paid due to the avoidance.
Our investigator also suggested that Covea should pay Mr L £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. And as this matter has been going on for much longer than it 
should have done, causing unnecessary distress and inconvenience, I think that amount is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Covea Insurance Plc to:
remove all references to Mr Ls policy being avoided from all internal and external 
databases
amend all relevant records to show that the policy was cancelled by Mr L
confirm to Mr L in writing that it has done the above
compensate Mr L for any extra amount hes paid in premiums solely due to the 
avoidance  on receipt of evidence that the avoidance affected the premiums, and 
his new insurer cannot adjust them itself
pay Mr L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman