DRN-3060611
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Silver and 
Platinum packaged accounts in October 2008 and January 2018 respectively.
Mr F says the accounts were mis-sold as he says he was led to believe that his overdraft 
would be at risk if he did not agree to them. Mr F says that he trusted what the banking staff 
told him. Mr F has also said the accounts duplicated benefits he held elsewhere.
Prior to the sale of the Silver account, Mr F held a fee-paying Select account since prior to 
September 2001. However, he did not complain to Lloyds about that sale.
What happened
It has already been established that our service cannot look into Mr Fs complaint about the 
sale of the Silver account  as hed complained too late about it. 
One of our adjudicators then assessed Mr Fs complaint about the sale of the Platinum 
account, and she did not think that it had been mis-sold. Mr F disagreed with this, so the 
matter has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
In his response to the adjudicators assessment, I can see that Mr F had commented that he 
was led to believe in the early 2000s that he needed a packaged account to get an 
overdraft. 
But if its the case that Mr F now wants to complain about the sale of his Select account as 
well (which was sold some time prior to September 2001)  hell have to raise his concerns 
with Lloyds in the first instance, as I can see this did not form part of the original complaint. 
Therefore this decision will only address whether the Platinum account was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so I dont think the 
Platinum account was mis-sold.
Ive started by considering whether Mr F was given a fair choice. 
Mr F has said that he was led to believe his overdraft was at risk if he didnt agree to a PBA. 
However, looking at Mr Fs comments, it looks like this is what he was originally led to 
believe during the sale of the Silver account (and possibly in the early 2000s), rather than 
when the Platinum account was sold. But if it is the case that Mr F says he was led to 
believe this during the Platinum sale as well, I find it unlikely that he was given exactly the 
same incorrect information over ten years later (from when the Silver account had been sold 
to him). 
Looking at the point of sale documents, I can see that the option of taking out a fee-free 
account was discussed with Mr F. Furthermore, I can see that the Platinum account did offer 
a £300 interest free overdraft benefit. So I think there is a likelihood that Mr Fs recollections 
of discussing his overdraft during the sale could relate to a discussion about this account 
benefit in particular.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely the case that Mr F was aware that 
the Platinum account was optional. And I think its more likely that Mr F was aware he could 
have an overdraft on a fee-free account (or continue with the existing Silver account) 
instead, if he didnt want a Platinum account. 
Looking at the evidence that has been provided, I think the account was sold on a non-
advised basis. I say this because I cant see that the account was specifically recommended 
to Mr F. Instead, it seems that a number of accounts were discussed with Mr F and he chose 
to upgrade to the Platinum account.
This means that Lloyds did not have to check that it was right for him. But it did have to 
make sure it gave him enough information about the account and associated features so he 
could decide this for himself.
The point of sale documents suggest that Lloyds highlighted that the account included 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance and breakdown cover. And it looks like it was 
made clear to Mr F that hed pay £17 per month for the account. Therefore Im satisfied that 
Lloyds had given him at least some information about the account. 
I accept its possible that Lloyds might not have given Mr F all of the important information 
that it shouldve about the account, during the sale. But I dont think Mr F wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to it, had he been given even more information about it. I say this as I can 
see that Mr F called Lloyds shortly after upgrading - on 9 March 2018 - to discuss his 
account, as he said he had some of the account benefits elsewhere. Lloyds offered to raise 
a complaint for Mr F, but Mr F did not take up this offer, nor did he arrange to downgrade his 
account either. Instead, he chose to keep the Platinum account (and did so for another two 
years). And I can see in the sales documents, it does appear that the account benefits were 
explained to Mr F, and he was reminded that he would need to review any existing cover 
that he has, to avoid duplicating cover. So I cant say Lloyds has acted unfairly if its the case 
that Mr F did not go on to cancel his existing insurance policies.
So based on what I have seen, overall, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-sold. 
I therefore dont think itd be appropriate to ask Lloyds to refund Mr Fs account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman