DRN-3428482
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wouldnt allow it to 
access its account and money.
What happened
The director of S explains that he contacted PayPal when S was unable to access the 
account. He says that PayPal didnt help him and that the funds of S couldnt be accessed, 
and this affected its accounting.
PayPal sent a final response to S complaint on 14 July 2021. It said that it had been 
required as part of the Second Payment Services Directive to put in place new measures 
and one of these was two factor authentication for electronic payments. It said that 
sometimes on log in it would require a onetime passcode entered which it would send by text 
message or automated call to a registered landline. PayPal said it had made some 
adjustments to the account which would allow access to withdraw the balance for 72 hours. 
If S still wanted to use the account it would need either to add a mobile number to receive 
codes or you could try to register your home phone number. It offered to pay S £100 in 
compensation as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator noted that S hadnt received the final response letter and forwarded it on. 
He arranged for PayPal to provide S with a 48-hour period during which two factor 
authentication wouldnt be required. S was able to access the account and remove its funds 
on 7 December 2021. He said that PayPal had explained that issues had stemmed in part 
from the way the account had been set up. Only the director had authority to discuss it, not 
the employee who had been dealing with accounting on a day to day basis. He said that 
PayPal had emailed S with the documents required to close the account but said it hadnt 
had a response. And it had accepted that the service could have been better. He thought 
that the compensation was reasonable.
S didnt agree. The director said that hours had been wasted on this matter. Without the help 
of this service S wouldnt have received its money. The account was to all intents and 
purposes blocked. S wanted to close the account, but PayPal didnt deal with this. A letter to 
the Chief Executive of PayPal was ignored. There was no service provided. S didnt receive 
any documentation. It wanted higher compensation. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2022 explaining that I intended to uphold the 
complaint. I set out below what I said.
Id listened to recordings of three calls the director of S had with PayPal on 23 March 2021 
about accessing the account:
- In the first he explains he is locked out of the account and he doesnt normally 
access it. He is able to reset the password but is asked for authentication. He 
explains he doesnt use a mobile and is told instead he can receive a call to his 
landline phone number. As that is the one he is calling from he is told to wait for a 
code. 
- In the second call he says he didnt receive a call to the landline. The person he is 
speaking to says that this is because that number has been registered several times 
on the account as a home and service number. The director is told that this has been 
corrected. 
- In the final call that day he says that he hadnt received any code. The person he 
speaks to says that this is because whatever is said on the website landlines arent 
being accepted and that only a mobile will work. She says she has sent the director 
an email about how to close the account and receive the money by faxing documents 
to a central number. During the call the director confirms he has received a 
notification of a message to his email account. But to access this he needs to log on 
to the PayPal messaging centre. He is told that the only way for PayPal to contact 
him is by email and he wouldnt be called back. He is assured that someone will look 
into the issue of him being able to access the account and the balance.
PayPal has provided a copy of the email of 23 March 2021 which clearly S didnt get. And 
then follow up emails on 24 and 27 March 2021 asking whether its actions in dealing with the 
issue have been successful. It doesnt say what those are. I was satisfied that S wouldnt 
have received these emails for the same reason it didnt get the first one.
On 23 April 2021 S sent a complaint letter to the head office. It didnt provide the email 
address that it used to access the account but the name of the director and the name of S. It 
didnt get a response and on 2 June 2021 it made an online complaint. S also contacted this 
service and we passed on details of the complaint to PayPal. It issued a final response as 
stated above on 14 July 2021. Again, S said it didnt receive this and as it was sent by email 
I wasnt persuaded that it would have been accessible to S. Emails from PayPal to S 
seemed to be going to the messaging centre with a notification about this to S external 
email address.
my assessment
PayPal was reasonably required to provide strong customer authentication as it has 
explained. It was a matter for S as to how it had established the authorities on the account 
and who could deal with PayPal. The director didnt have a mobile phone that could receive 
codes. He was given inconsistent information about whether or not a code could be 
accessed through his landline. But he made efforts to use the landline for this purpose and 
on 23 March 2021 that didnt work.
He asked that the account for S be closed. The person dealing with that request knew that S 
wasnt receiving emails but was directed to a message centre it couldnt access without 
logging in. S reasonably thought that its issue was then being addressed. But there is no 
evidence PayPal then took any steps. Even if S could have read the emails of 24 and 27 
March 2021 there is nothing to show PayPal had done anything further in response to what it 
acknowledged was a complaint. 
But I also thought that the letter sent to PayPal in April 2021 wasnt dealt with as it didnt 
provide any of the details for S that PayPal could verify. I didnt know whether it was either 
the online contact from S in June 2021 or the details we sent on to PayPal that month that 
led to the complaint being addressed. S didnt receive that response and again that 
response told it that it could use the landline about which it had received inconsistent 
information before.We look into complaints in order of when they were referred to us. So, our investigator was 
in active contact with S from November 2021 and was able to arrange for it to have the 
access to its account in December 2021 and to check all the accounting.
I found that PayPal has provided inconsistent information to S, didnt deal with a clear issue 
with it receiving emails, and so didnt assist it in accessing and then closing its account in a 
timely way. I wouldnt have expected, as PayPal did, S to do more to try and access its 
account after 23 March 2021 as it reasonably believed PayPal was addressing this.
putting things right
S now has its money and the account is closed. I needed to think about the inconvenience 
caused to S. And I needed to say that as the complainant is S, a separate legal entity, I 
couldnt think about the personal impact on the director and a limited company cant suffer 
distress. The inconvenience comes from the time though the director spent in dealing with 
this and as he explained on the calls not with the other important things he needed to do for 
S, the period over which S wasnt able to access its account after March 2021 and the 
further steps needed through this service to access its money. 
We dont make punitive awards and I reflected what I thought is reasonable. I considered 
having regard to our published guidelines about compensation and everything that has 
happened that the appropriate amount is £350.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal didnt make any comments about my provisional decision.
S accepted it and said that it reflected the inconvenience involved and appreciated the 
assistance given in resolving matters.
That being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to 
pay S £350.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman