DRN-3958867
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service hes received from Vitality Health Limited in relation to a 
cashback benefit on his private health insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The 25% Waitrose cashback is a benefit on Mr Fs policy. While I appreciate the 
issues Mr F has experienced in being able to track his cashback amount on the 
application, I cant see that hes suffered a financial loss. For example, I can see that 
Vitality paid him £25 to compensate for any potential loss in cashback for May 2022 
purchases, which was credited in June 2022. And since then, hes received the 
cashback every month.
Mr F asked Vitality to phone him several times to resolve the issues since June 2022, 
and I know he says he only received a call in August 2022. But Im persuaded that 
Vitality has attempted to phone Mr F. And in any event, Vitality has paid him £50 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.
I appreciate it has been frustrating for Mr F when the issue hes experiencing still 
hasnt been resolved, and hes been inconvenienced in trying to get it sorted out. But 
its not within my power to tell Vitality how its systems should operate. Im satisfied 
Vitality has tried to resolve Mr Fs concerns, and its made sure he hasnt suffered a 
financial loss. Vitality has explained that the issue is a cosmetic issue in the 
cashback tracking system, and its raised this with the relevant team.
Overall, Im satisfied that what Vitality has done, and the compensation it has paid, is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman