DRN-3333747
The complaint
Mr W is complaining that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
AvantCredit carried out some checks but I dont think it reacted appropriately to the 
results of its checks.
The checks showed that Mr W was due to pay over half of his declared monthly 
income towards credit. This included other high cost loans, credit cards and mail 
order account.
I can see that AvantCredit in response to the view has retrospectively argued that 
Mr W would have consolidated some of his lending, but this wasnt something it fully 
considered at the time it decided to lend. So, it lent without being fully aware of which 
credit commitments Mr W was consolidating and how this may have impacted his 
financial circumstances overall.
Even if I was to accept AvantCredits retrospective consolidation, considering Mr Ws 
remaining credit commitments and the repayments for this loan, Mr W was due to 
pay more than 40% of his income towards unsecured credit.
On this basis, AvantCredit ought to have known there was a significant risk Mr W 
would struggle to repay the loan and likely suffer adverse financial impact so it 
shouldnt have lent and needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr W as payments towards the capital amount of 
£3,000.
If Mr W has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded 
to with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr W.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put things right as set out 
above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman