DRN-3024332
The complaint
Ms N complains that Charles Dean Limited, then acting as Appointed Representative of 
Quilter Financial Limited (Quilter), failed to provide appropriate financial advice, between 
2014 and 2018, in relation to her pensions and investments. She complains in particular that 
Quilter failed to advise her to maximise provision through her former employers 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). She feels that shes suffered significant financial 
detriment because of this. 
Ms N has also asked this service to consider a separate complaint against Charles Dean 
Limited for the period from February 2018 when they were no longer an appointed 
representative of Quilter. I wont consider that complaint here.
What happened
Ive included details of events that took place before Quilter became Ms Ns financial adviser 
here, where they are relevant to this decision. 
Ms N said she worked for her former employer between 1986 and 2020. And that she was a 
member of that employers OPS. She said she had the right to retire from the scheme at age 
55 with no reduction to her benefits. She said during this time, she had a couple of years 
where she wasnt working. And she said she went part-time after becoming a mother.
In 2007 Ms N said she accessed financial advice from another business. They advised her 
to open a Personal Pension (PP) with another provider. And to make regular contributions of 
£100 each month.
In 2010 Ms N said an endowment policy matured. And she received a monetary gift from her 
family. She said her financial adviser recommended she amalgamated some investments to 
invest £57,000 into an investment bond (the bond). And £18,750 into her PP. She said it was 
also recommended that she increased her regular contributions to the PP to £140 each 
month.
In 2011 Ms Ns financial advisers firm merged with another firm. Ms N remained a client of 
the same adviser. 
In 2013 Ms Ns financial adviser retired. And his son became her new adviser. He was 
employed by a different firm.
In 2014 Ms Ns new adviser moved to Charles Dean Limited, where he was an Appointed 
Representative of Quilter. Ms N moved across with him. But shortly after that she was 
allocated a new advisor at that firm. I understand that Quilter acted as Ms Ns financial 
adviser from 8 May 2014 to 31 January 2018. Although I note that the same adviser 
continued to advise Ms N until June 2020.
Ms N met with her financial adviser in April 2015. On 6 May 2015, she sent him some 
information about her OPS. As shed only been given pension figures for retirement at age 
55, she ask him to work out the corresponding figures for retirement at age 60. And also 
asked him to advise on whether it would be better to pay more into the OPS or her PP.
On 18 May 2015 Ms Ns adviser replied to her questions about her OPS. He provided 
estimates of her pension entitlement at age 60. And in reply to Ms Ns query about her 
ongoing pension contributions, he said that he would be inclined to pay into the OPS 
instead. He said he didnt think the PP would offer the same guarantees as the OPS. He 
also recommended that Ms N spoke to her HR department before making a decision, as he 
didnt know the terms for adding additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) into the scheme.
On 25 May 2015 Ms N asked her adviser further questions after shed got more information 
about her OPS. She asked if she should stop paying into her PP and instead pay into the 
OPS. She wanted to know what the comparative reward would be. She also asked if she 
should cash in her PP altogether and pay lump sums from it into her OPS.
On 28 May 2015 Ms Ns adviser replied. He said he needed more information about the 
OPSs AVC scheme before he could give her a proper analysis and a full answer to her 
questions. He said he needed to know the following:
If the AVC scheme allowed her to buy additional years in the OPS? And if so, what it 
would cost?
If it didnt, who ran the AVC scheme? And what were the costs and the performance 
of the plan?
He also gave an estimate of what one additional year or OPS benefits would provide for Ms 
N at retirement. And approximately how much she would need to be able to buy an 
equivalent annuity outside of the OPS. Ive seen no evidence that Ms N ever provided the 
required information. 
Ive seen evidence of annual reviews held between Ms N and her adviser on 22 September 
2016 and 10 August 2017. Theres no evidence that further discussions about making 
additional payments into her OPS took place during these meetings.
In 2018 Ms N said she found out she might be able to buy additional pension with her OPS. 
So she made the purchases which provided an additional £2,000 each year of pension. Ms 
N said that although she was entitled to buy up to £5,000 of additional pension, this was the 
most she could purchase in a tax-efficient manner.
Ms N told this service she took her retirement benefits from the OPS in 2020. She 
complained to Charles Dean Limited in June 2020  her adviser now worked for this firm. 
Her complaint was then referred to Quilter for whom Charles Dean Limited were an 
Appointed Representative between 2014 and 2018. Her complaint covered:
The failure to advise her to maximize her OPS pension provision, 
the mis-selling of the bond, and
general poor service.
In their December 2020 final response letter, Quilter didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint about 
the failure to advise her to maximise her OPS pension provision. They said that the May 
2015 email exchange between their adviser and Ms N about her OPS showed that the OPS 
had been discussed. But that their adviser had never received the information he required to 
carry out the requested analysis. They said that financial advisers can only provide advice 
based on the information theyve received from their clients. And therefore didnt think it was fair or reasonable to say that Ms N had received unsuitable advice from her adviser on her 
OPS pension provision. They said their adviser had asked Ms N on several occasions to 
complete an Attitude to Risk (ATR) questionnaire which wouldve enabled him to ensure that 
the underlying funds within the investment were aligned to Ms Ns ATR. But that Ms N had 
never completed the ATR questionnaire. They said that without this, their adviser couldnt 
provide any further advice on either cashing in the bond or purchasing additional years in the 
OPS. They didnt comment on the sale of the investment bond as this was carried out by a 
different adviser firm.
Quilter upheld Ms Ns complaint about general poor service. They said that as some of Ms 
Ns investments had been set up before the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), there was no 
obligation for their adviser to provide her with an ongoing service for those investments. But 
that, due to administrative error, commission payments that had been due to them hadnt 
been received. So in October 2016 theyd written to Ms N to tell her. They said shed signed 
a new adviser fee agreement in November 2016 in which she agreed to an annual payment 
of 0.75% of the value of that investment, paid monthly, in return for an ongoing service of the 
plan. And although they felt that Ms N had received the two annual reviews shed been due, 
they acknowledged that Ms N may not have received the service theyd agreed with her. 
They offered a return of the ongoing adviser charges shed paid on the bond between 10 
November 2016 and 31 January 2018, plus notional investment return. This totalled £877. 
They also offered £250 for the trouble and upset theyd caused. 
Ms N was unhappy with Quilters response. She wrote to them again on 30 December 2020. 
She wanted them to clarify that they were saying that their adviser had been unable to 
advise her simply because he hadnt received a reply to his 28 May 2015 email. Or that 
shed not completed an ATR. She said that on every occasion shed met her adviser for a 
face to face annual review, shed asked him for his help and advice in connection with her 
retirement planning. She said she had no expertise in pensions. Ms N also felt that in their 
client agreement Quilter had promised:
the continual review of your arrangements to ensure that they continue to match your goals 
and objectives, throughout your financial planning lifetime
But that at no point in time during any of her face to face meetings did her adviser say that 
he was unable to provide her with advice about her retirement planning. And at no point did 
he say that because he didnt have details of her ATR he couldnt give her investment 
advice. She said that if she had been made aware of this during the time her adviser was an 
Appointed Representative of Quilter, she wouldve done something about it. 
Quilter responded to Ms N on 11 January 2021. They maintained their decision detailed in 
their final response letter. They said the ATR questionnaire and OPS information had been 
requested on several occasions by Ms Ns financial adviser so that he could carry out his 
research and analysis. But that as Ms N hadnt provided the requested information, hed 
been unable to do this. They felt that it was reasonable under the circumstances for their 
adviser to have assumed that as the relevant forms hadnt been completed by Ms N, she no 
longer required assistance with this matter.
Ms N replied to Quilters response on 14 January 2021. She said she didnt remember any 
other occasions in the period from 28 May 2015 to 31 January 2018 where information was 
requested from her but she didnt respond. And that this was why shed asked if the email of 
28 May 2015 was the only information Quilter had relied on in order to reach their 
conclusions. She asked them to provide details of when the other requests were made. She 
also asked them to comment on her observations that shed understood that her adviser was 
providing ongoing advice to her as per the Client Service Proposition, and not just in respect 
of the bond.Quilter replied to Ms N on 3 February 2021. They maintained their original decision on the 
complaint. They said an adviser can only provide advice and make a recommendation once 
they are in full receipt of all necessary and required information. They said their adviser had 
confirmed that he requested the ATR several times. They said hed also confirmed that Ms N 
had never raised the issue of her OPS pension again in the period they were her financial 
advisers. 
Unhappy, Ms N brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. He didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that Quilter were 
responsible for failing to advise Ms N to redirect her personal pension contributions into 
funding additional pension with her employers OPS. He said Ms N was aware in 2015 of the 
availability of that option. And that Quilter had told her at the time that they would be inclined 
to recommend that she did so, instead of paying into the personal pension. He said Quilter 
had requested further information from Ms N before they could make a recommendation. But 
there was no evidence that Ms N had provided the required information. 
Ms N didnt agree with our investigator. She felt that Quilters adviser should have equal 
responsibility for her loss. She accepted she hadnt mentioned her OPS to Quilter again. But 
said that as it was such a massive part of her pension she wouldve expected Quilter to have 
discussed it again.
A different investigator was assigned to the complaint when the original investigator left this 
service. He reviewed the complaint in January 2022 and came to the same conclusion as 
the first investigator. He felt that Quilters offer was reasonable and fair to both parties.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
There are three aspects to Ms Ns complaint, although I can only consider two of them 
against Quilter. The first is that although Ms N did in the end buy an additional £2,000 each 
year of additional pension in her OPS, she couldve purchased a further £3,000 each year if 
shed been advised correctly. She said that the additional pension wouldve been cheaper if 
shed been advised to buy it earlier. 
The second part of the complaint is that Ms N was advised to invest approximately £50,000 
in the bond. But that the bond wasnt a suitable investment for her. Our investigator said he 
wouldnt consider any complaint in respect of events that occurred prior to Ms Ns 
relationship with Quilter. Therefore he couldnt look at the suitability of the advice to 
purchase the original PP or the bond. As these were set up before Quilter acted as financial 
adviser to Ms N, I agree that this service cant consider this part of Ms Ns complaint against 
them. 
The third part of Ms Ns complaint relates to the fees shes paid for the service shes 
received. She said that since Quilter had been her financial adviser, theyd made no 
changes to her portfolio, even though she said shed repeatedly asked if it was appropriate 
or if there was a more cost-effective way for her to achieve her investment objectives. She 
felt it unreasonable for Quilter to have been paid for such a poor service. 
Ms N said that her advisers failing had caused her to suffer significant financial detriment. So shed like to be compensated. 
Ill consider each part of Ms Ns complaint separately, starting with her complaint about 
buying additional pension from her OPS.
Should Quilter have advised Ms N to buy additional pension from her OPS?
Ive summarised above that Ms Ns position is that she wouldve liked to buy the maximum 
£5,000 of additional pension through her OPS. Shes also told this service that now shes 
retired shes no longer eligible to buy any further additional pension. She has also confirmed 
that when she did buy additional pension between 2018 and 2020, the amounts she bought 
were effectively limited by the amounts on which she could receive tax relief on the pension 
contribution. 
Ms Ns position is that she truly believed that Quilter were providing her with financial advice 
for her retirement planning. She said she tried to be responsive to any requests for 
information. She said that in 2015 she had provided details of her OPS pension. She 
acknowledged that her adviser had replied on 28 May 2015 to say he needed more 
information before he could give a proper analysis and a full answer to her questions about 
the OPSs AVC scheme. She said her adviser had also asked her about an ATR 
questionnaire. But that after May 2015 she didnt received any further requests for 
information. Nor did she get any reminders that her adviser was unable to advise her without 
the ATR questionnaire being completed, even during the annual face to face meetings she 
had with him. Ms N said she couldnt understand how her adviser - who Quilter had claimed 
to have a veritable wealth of experience in the pension arena - was unable to find out the 
information he needed by himself. She said that her husband had been able to work out that 
she couldve bought up to £5,000 more annual pension with little effort. She said shed 
managed to buy £2,000 extra pension at great expense. But that it had been too late to buy 
the remaining possible £3,000. She was disappointed she hadnt been able to do this as she 
said she had the money shed needed in the PP and the bond. 
Quilters position is that their adviser told Ms N he would be inclined to pay additional 
payments into the OPSs AVC scheme, as he expected the guarantees in that scheme 
would be superior to those in Ms Ns PP. He then reasonably asked for further information 
about Ms Ns OPSs AVC scheme so that he could carry out the analysis shed requested. 
But when shed not responded, he couldnt do anything more. They also said that without a 
completed ATR questionnaire, their adviser couldnt provide any further advice on either 
cashing in the bond or purchasing additional years in the OPS.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said, and the evidence provided. From what 
Ive seen, I acknowledge that Ms N placed her trust in people she considered to be experts 
to ensure her financial objectives were being met. But Im not persuaded that Quilter could 
perform this role without input from her. I consider it was reasonable for Quilter to require an 
ATR questionnaire to be completed before they could assess what investments would be 
most suitable for Ms N. And Im also satisfied that Quilter clearly laid out the information they 
needed about Ms Ns OPSs AVC scheme so that they could carry out the analysis shed 
requested. I dont agree they couldve just googled this information. They werent in a 
position to know the specifics of her OPS without her help. I acknowledge that it wouldve 
been helpful if Quilters adviser had chased Ms N when she didnt respond to his request for 
information about the OPSs AVC scheme. But Im not persuaded that he would necessarily 
have felt that such a chaser was needed. I say this because I think its also fair to say that 
Ms N was clearly aware of her right to make additional pension provision in her OPS in 
2015. Therefore I consider that it would be reasonable for her adviser to assume that shed   
decided not to further investigate investing in her OPSs AVC scheme when she didnt reply 
with the information he said hed needed. From the file notes of the face to face meetings Ms N had with her adviser in 2016 and 2017, 
I can see that there was no agreed action to top up of either her OPS pension or her PP. 
Both file notes state: no changes were required. Both notes also state: Client will contact 
us in the meantime if there are any changes that occur or if they would like any advice on 
any matters that may arise. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that Ms 
N had told her adviser that it was important to her to increase her pension savings during 
those meetings. And as Quilter have confirmed that Ms N didnt mention her OPS pension 
again until 2019, I cant fairly say that advice on pension planning was important to her over 
this period. 
I acknowledge that our investigator felt that Quilter shouldve continued to ask Ms N about 
her OPS pension and the outstanding information theyd requested from her in 2015. I agree 
that it wouldve been helpful if theyd taken steps to check with Ms N whether or not she was 
still considering her pension options. But, based on the evidence, I cant see that Ms N ever 
told Quilter that she wanted further pensions advice. And from the file notes from the 2016 
and 2017, Im satisfied that she wouldve understand that she should contact Quilter if she 
ever wanted any advice. So, although I agree it wouldve been helpful if Quilter had raised a 
question about her OPS, I can understand why they didnt feel they needed to. 
From what Ive seen, had Ms N responded with the requested information, I think its very 
likely that Quilters adviser wouldve carried out the analysis shed requested. This wouldve 
likely led to further discussions in 2015 about whether it was a good idea to make additional 
contributions to the OPSs AVC scheme. Therefore Im not going to uphold this part of Ms 
Ns complaint. 
Ill now consider the service part of Ms Ns complaint. 
Did Quilter provide a poor service?
Ms Ns position is that it wasnt fair for her adviser to receive fees for a lengthy period while 
accepting no responsibility for failing to provide the advice and service she thought shed 
paid for. She felt that Quilter had done nothing for her. But had continued to receive 
thousands of pounds in fees. And had provided false assurance that she was doing the best 
retirement planning. She said she was very upset that Quilter had told her that the reason 
theyd not provided the service shed expected was because shed not provided an ATR 
questionnaire. She said there were multiple opportunities for them to ask her to provide that.
Ms N also said that the Client Service Proposition she held with Quilter stated: 
We believe an essential part is the continual review of your arrangements to ensure 
that they continue to match your goals and objectives, throughout your financial planning 
lifetime. 
She said that in not advising her to buy the additional pension she was entitled to buy from 
her OPSs AVC scheme, Quilter didnt meet this part of the ongoing servicing theyd 
promised her. 
Quilter partially upheld Ms Ns complaint about service. They accepted that she may not 
have received the service theyd agreed with her for the bond. They refunded the ongoing 
adviser charges shed paid on the bond between 10 November 2016 and 31 January 2018, 
plus notional investment return. They also offered £250 for the trouble and upset theyd 
caused. But they didnt accept that theyd failed to advise her to buy the additional pension, 
as they said she hadnt responded to their request for information. 
Quilter have provided a detailed list about the service they did provide for Ms N over the period they acted as her adviser. This details a series of email exchanges, the dates when 
quarterly portfolio valuations were sent, and the two annual meeting file notes from 2016 and 
2017. 
I need to decide if Quilter provided the service they were paid to provide. And if they took 
reasonable steps to put things right under the circumstances of this part of the complaint. 
I understand why Ms N considers that Quilter didnt provide the service she had expected 
them to provide. But I dont agree this is the case. As I stated earlier, I dont consider that 
Quilter couldve made the recommendation to buy the maximum additional pension from the 
OPSs AVC scheme without the information they requested from Ms N. And she didnt 
provide that information. Because Quilter didnt know the terms on which additional pension 
could be purchased through the OPS, they couldnt advise Ms N to buy the maximum 
pension. And in any event, shed never told them she wanted to maximize the amount of 
pension she could take from that scheme. Therefore I cant hold Quilter responsible for this 
aspect of Ms Ns complaint.
Having carefully considered the steps Quilter took after they accepted that theyd not 
provided the service theyd agreed to provide regarding the bond, Im satisfied that they took 
reasonable steps to put things right. So I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman