DRN-3451086
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has handled her 
credit card account. Shes also unhappy with the level of service she was provided during a 
telephone call.  
What happened
Miss S has a credit card account with NatWest. She fell into arrears and couldnt make the 
minimum payment. She was in regular contact with NatWests specialist support team to 
discuss the different options that were available to her. While discussing these options it was 
agreed that her account would-be put-on hold for 30 days. 
In a later call, it was agreed that NatWest would default Miss S account, which would impact 
her credit file  but shed no longer be pursued for the debt.
Miss S says she wasnt made aware that a default would be applied, and she didnt want this 
on her credit file, so she complained. 
NatWest issued a final response letter that explained theyd listened to all of the calls Miss S 
had with their specialist support team throughout March 2022. And they were satisfied that 
theyd treated Miss S fairly by discussing several different options with her, as well as 
agreeing to suspend interest and charges. 
They were also satisfied that theyd explained why a default would show on Miss S credit file 
if she continued to miss payments. Because Miss S said she didnt want the account to 
default they agreed that she could complete a further questionnaire about her financial 
situation and in the meantime the account would remain on hold with no default applied.
NatWest agreed that one of the calls couldve been handled better  in particular when    
Miss S asked to speak to a different member of staff. They paid £75 compensation in 
recognition of the way the call was handled.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter and thought NatWest had been clear during the call that the account 
would be defaulted if Miss S didnt maintain her minimum payments and this would show on 
Miss Ss credit file. They were also satisfied that NatWest had treated Miss S fairly by 
offering other solutions and repayment plans. Finally, they agreed that £75 paid to Miss S 
was reasonable for the customer service issues during one of the calls. Miss S disagreed. 
She said she wanted NatWest to write off the debt, without putting a default on her credit file. 
She also thought she should get more compensation. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below.
Firstly, Miss S has explained her circumstances to us and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficulties she is currently facing. Id like to reassure her that Ive looked through the full file, 
including listening to the relevant telephone calls when reaching my outcome.
Miss S has explained that she is in financial difficulties and is struggling to make the 
minimum payments on her NatWest credit card account. This has meant shes missed 
payments. 
When an individual is in financial difficulties, wed expect the business to act positively and 
sympathetically towards them. This could include several things such as suspending interest 
and charges on the account, agreeing a repayment plan, or agreeing to a payment holiday 
etc. The business should also be clear about what might happen to an individuals credit file 
if any of these steps are agreed, or if the account continues to fall into arrears.
Ive listened to some telephone calls that Miss S had with NatWests specialist support team 
throughout March 2022. During these calls NatWest asked about Miss S income and 
expenditure and they discussed several short term and long-term options that could be 
made available to her. One option that was discussed was that Miss S no longer make 
payments to the credit card account and NatWest would stop pursuing her for the debt. But 
the adviser at NatWest explained that the account would default, and the default would show 
on her credit file for six years. 
I understand Miss S doesnt want this to happen and shed like NatWest to write off the debt, 
not pursue her for the outstanding balance and not to report anything to the credit reference 
agencies. But this isnt something Id expect NatWest to do.
Im satisfied the options NatWest discussed with Miss S show that they took her situation 
seriously and they were doing all they could to support her. 
Throughout her complaint they have put the account on hold, and theyve agreed to waiver 
interest and charges. They discussed repayment plans and other options available that were 
affordable to Miss S  which is what I would expect them to do. 
Im also satisfied that they clearly explained to Miss S what would happen if she stopped 
making payments to the account  including explaining what a default is and how it will affect 
her credit rating. 
As I understand it, Miss S has completed a further questionnaire with NatWest about her 
current financial situation but has said that she wont be making any further payments to the 
account. NatWest has made it clear to Miss S what will happen if she misses further 
payments, including defaulting the account, so Miss S should be aware of this. 
Although, I sympathise with Miss S situation, NatWest are entitled to pursue Miss S for the 
debt, and they must record accurate financial information to credit reference agencies. Im 
satisfied theyve been fair and reasonable when discussing the different options available to 
Miss S and the consequences of these options - as a result, I dont think NatWest needs to 
do anything further. 
Miss S also complains about the way she was treated during a telephone call with NatWest. 
She asked to speak to a manager but was told she wouldnt be able to. NatWest accepted that it couldve handled the call better and has paid Miss S £75. I think this is a reasonable 
amount of compensation for the trouble and upset it caused, so I wont be awarding anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman