DRN-2662939
The complaint
Mr B complains about Sainsburys Bank Plc allowing him to exceed his agreed credit limit on 
his credit card account resulting in additional interest and charges being applied.
What happened
On 11 February 2020, Mr B made a transaction for £1,925.12 using his Sainsburys credit 
card. Soon afterwards he received a text message from Sainsburys saying his account 
balance had exceeded 80% of his credit limit. He called Sainsburys and it explained the 
transaction had in fact caused his account to exceed its credit limit. The following day Mr B 
made a payment of £500 to bring his account balance back below his agreed credit limit.
On 21 February 2020, he received his monthly credit card statement. It included a £12 over 
limit fee and showed he was £21.78 over his credit limit of £3,500. 
Mr Bs account exceeded its credit limit again and on 21 March 2020, he received another 
monthly statement which included interest of £34.51.
Mr B feels Sainsburys should have declined the transactions and prevented his account 
from going over the limit.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it was Mr Bs 
responsibility to make sure his spending stayed within the credit limit for his account. He 
thought the charges and interest had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. He didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed. He said to decide whether to go over the limit he needs information which at 
any given moment only the bank has. He receives his statements monthly, not minute by 
minute. Only the banks system can immediately see, and notify him, if a payment being 
made is going to move the credit card balance over the limit. The card holder cannot be 
expected to have such data to hand while, for example, buying groceries. And indeed, this is 
what other banks do. As an example, he provided notices that he received on his mobile 
phone from a different bank, when his account goes over the limit of his free overdraft.  
Indeed, he said this is what Sainsburys did, or tried to do, when on 12 February 2020 he 
was sent a message to his mobile number advising him that he reached 80% of his credit 
limit. This turned out to be erroneous information he said, as when he called the bank, 
immediately after receiving the message, he was told that his account was over the limit, and 
not at 80% of the limit.
His contention is that the banks automated system was able to advise him in a matter of 
seconds that a purchase being made pushed the card over the limit, and by doing this allow 
him to decide if he wished the card to remain over the limit, and so incur charges and 
interest, or to make a payment into the card before midnight that day and bring it back into 
the agreed limit, and so avoid any charges. This Sainsburys did not do, and so exposed him 
to a charge and interest. 
His contention is also that Sainsburys was negligent, failed in its duty to him as its customer, 
and did not act in good faith, or fairly.
The investigator accepted Mr B might not know the exact balance of his account when out 
shopping. But he thought this didn't change the terms of the contract he agreed with 
Sainsbury's. It agreed a credit limit of £3,500, and the terms and conditions clearly explain 
the fees that apply if his account exceeds its credit limit. Some businesses will notify a 
customer when an account exceeds its limit, but this isn't a regulatory or legal requirement. 
There isn't anything in the credit agreement to suggest Sainsbury's will notify a customer 
when the customers account exceeds it limit, so by not sending an alert the investigator 
thought Sainsbury's hadn't treated Mr B unfairly. 
Mr B disagreed. He felt the investigator had failed to consider the simple fact that in order 
not to go over the limit a card holder requires data, which only the bank has at any given 
moment. And if the investigator believes that his contract with Sainsbury's does not provide 
for the same (a position, which Mr B believes even Sainsbury's does not support as it did 
send him a mobile phone notice, be it wrong as to its content), then it must be clear that that 
contract is unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration here. Mr B is used to a larger credit limit and has the 
money to pay off his credit card account each month. But he accidently went over his credit 
limit by a small amount and he has incurred charges and interest. Mr B feels his card 
shouldnt have been allowed to go over the limit. Alternatively, he feels there should be a 
grace sum by which an account could go over for, say, a day or two, and the bank would 
notify the card holder immediately the account goes over the limit.
Whilst I have sympathy for Mr B I dont think Sainsburys has done anything wrong and so I 
wont be upholding the complaint.
The purchase that initially took Mr B over the credit limit was for £1,925.12. Mr B thinks this 
should have been declined rather than he be allowed to go over the limit. Even if it could 
have done so, Sainsburys wasnt required to decline the payment. So, I dont think it was 
wrong not to do so and indeed I have seen complaints from customers who have been 
mortified when their bank hasnt permitted a purchase which took them just over their limit.
The purchase of £1,925.12 was more than half the credit limit for the account. Indeed, it was 
such a large purchase that it took Mr B from having used less than 50% of his credit limit to 
over 100% and thus triggered a notification that he had used over 80% of his credit limit. 
Mr B feels that a card holder doesnt have the data to know at any given moment whether a 
purchase would take him over the limit. Mr B is clearly an intelligent man and I think he 
should have known that a purchase this large with his recent spending and his credit limit 
was at risk of taking him over his credit limit and he should have taken appropriate action to 
avoid this. Then in the couple of weeks that followed that large purchase, having only just 
gone over his limit, I think he should have realised that continued use of his card without 
paying close attention to his spending would put him at risk of going over his credit limit 
again. 
I appreciate Mr B would like a grace sum by which an account could go over for, say, a day 
or two, and the bank would notify the card holder immediately the account goes over the limit. But this isnt something Sainsburys is currently required to do. If Mr B thinks this is a 
good idea, then he should raise it with the regulator who can then consider whether this 
would be something that would be beneficial (or not).
Looking at the charges and interest applied I cant say Sainsburys was wrong to apply 
these. Mr B ought to have known that his spending was likely to put him over the credit limit. 
The charges and interest are set out in the terms and conditions of the account. I dont think 
the contract is unfair. Nor do I think Sainsburys has been negligent.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman