DRN-3308348
The complaint
Mrs G brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr G. She says 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly refused a life assurance claim 
under their joint protection policy on the grounds of misrepresentation.  
To resolve the complaint, Mrs G says the claim ought to be paid in full.  
What happened
Mrs G and the estate of the late Mr G are now represented by a solicitor in bringing the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G applied for the policy in July 2018. Specifically, a quotation was produced on 
18 July, and an application submitted on 25 July. The policy offered them decreasing life and 
critical illness insurance for a twenty-year term, with an initial sum assured matching their 
mortgage lending of £136,000. It came into force on 29 August 2018.  
In January 2021 Mr G sadly passed away, after suffering from type of aneurism. Mrs G 
made a claim to L&G and returned the relevant forms it had issued to her in February 2021. 
In March 2021, L&G sent a targeted report to Mr Gs GP. As a result of the response from 
the GP, L&G asked Mrs G further questions about Mr Gs medical history in a letter of April 
2021. She explained to L&G that Mr G had acted reasonably. She said that the blood 
pressure (BP) reading given on his application could have been a home reading. 
Mrs G also made further detailed written submissions to L&G explaining why she felt it had 
treated her unsympathetically. She explained that Mr G had told L&G accurate information to 
the best of his knowledge at the time. She said it wasnt fair to rely on higher BP results over 
24-hour measurements, when Mr G was documented to have had white coat syndrome. 
In May 2021, L&G refused the claim. It said when completing his application, Mr G had not 
provided an accurate account of his medical history relating to his BP. 
It said it did not accept the 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) as a 
reading taken in a doctors surgery. Therefore, it discounted Mr Gs stated 136/90 reading 
and instead relied on the two readings obtained at his GP surgery in January 2021 which 
were given as 178/20 and 164/112.  Consequently, it felt there had been a 
misrepresentation, which it categorised it as deliberate or reckless. 
L&G told Mrs G that it could either offer her a full refund of premiums at £1,579.91 or she 
could continue with the policy. If it was the latter, it would recalculate the premium and 
arrange a partial refund of premiums for the portion of the policy relating to Mr Gs cover.
The solicitor made a complaint on Mrs Gs behalf in June 2021. It said, in summary, that the 
BP reading supplied to L&G was the last reliable reading obtained at his GP surgery.  
In July 2021, L&G rejected the complaint. It said the question asked Mr G to supply the 
reading taken at his GP surgery by a doctor or nurse  and he hadnt supplied that. It had 
made a business decision to ask questions about readings taken at surgeries, not those 
from 24-hour home testing. Given Mr G said yes to the question about BP, it had expected 
he would provide an accurate answer to a test taken by a doctor or nurse.  
The solicitor brought the complaint to this service. She said, in summary:
in his policy application, Mr G was asked to give his latest BP reading and he did so;
his answer was a reading of 136/90;
the last relevant BP reading Mr G had actually received was lower than this  it was 
133/82, as confirmed by 24-hour ABPM;
in its claim declinature, L&G has referred to other BP readings from 2015, 2017 and 
two prior to the ABPM in January 2018;
but these were not the last reading before the application and that was what Mr G 
was asked;
ABPM is scientifically accurate and should reasonably be relied upon;
it was disingenuous of L&G to say that the question put to Mr G made no mention of 
ABPM;
the question implies that a formal reading should be taken by medical staff, and this 
would be using professional equipment attached for 24 hours as opposed to basic 
individual home equipment;
it is accepted that Mr G attended an out of hours clinic on 24 August 2018 but he did 
not attend for BP reasons  he attended for unrelated stomach pain;
Mrs G says he was not told his BP reading on that day;
so the answer to the question on the policy put to him was given truthfully and to the 
best of his knowledge;
L&G has provided no objective evidence that Mr G acted carelessly;
to the contrary, he answered the policy application questions with care;
Mr G told L&G that he had high BP, that he was taking medication for it, and what the 
last reading was from his GP surgery was, albeit he noted it as slightly higher;
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 says that a 
measure of reasonable care requires an assessment as to whether the question put 
to the applicant was clear and specific;
if L&G required the BP reading to be captured in a certain way with certain 
equipment (or not), it should have said so;
the duty under the relevant act falls to L&G to prove that Mr G acted without 
reasonable care;
she and Mrs G submit that L&G has failed to provide that proof;
L&G has failed to tell Mrs G why the reading Mr G provided was not the one it 
required  instead it has merely declined the claim based on the information it prefers 
to rely on, rather than looking at the question Mr G was asked and his reply;
as well as a claim payment, an award for distress must be considered for Mrs G 
given the additional upset she has been caused at a very difficult time. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. He felt that it was 
fair and reasonable for L&G to conclude Mr G had misrepresented when completing the 
application. In his view Mr G ought to have answered differently, as he hadnt provided an 
answer to the blood pressure question that was consistent with his medical records. 
Because of this, he felt L&G was able to decide what it would have done at the time in 2018. 
And it had shown it would have deferred its offer of cover to Mr G. 
The solicitor said that Mrs G did not accept the investigators view of the complaint. The 
solicitor made a number of further submissions on behalf of the estate of the late Mr G, 
noting that:the view was not fair, reasonable, or logical;
neither were arguments about the medical equipment;
the view did not follow the relevant law on consumer disclosures applying to 
misrepresentation complaints;
ABPM isnt read by a patient - its read by a GP;
so it was incorrect to suggest Mr G should not have relied on the outcome of the 24-
hour readings;
the reading Mr G gave to L&G was actually slightly higher than the ABPM results;
so it cannot follow that L&G would have postponed offering insurance to Mr G. 
L&G confirmed that it had nothing further to add, so the matter was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to send my condolences to Mrs G. I can she has been 
through an incredibly difficult time, and she has gone to great lengths to explain the 
circumstances surrounding Mr Gs medical history.  
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that L&G has acted fairly in 
the circumstances, insofar as I do not believe it could have offered to insure Mr G on 29 
August 2018 had it known the full extent of his medical history of hypertension. 
That means I wont be asking it to pay Mrs Gs claim. I know this wont be the answer she or 
her solicitor have hoped for, but Ill set out my reasons for reaching that conclusion below. 
These are slightly different to our investigators view, but the outcome is materially the same.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. In this case, when L&G received the medical evidence to process Mrs Gs claim, it 
asked targeted questions of the GP in relation to Mr Gs aneurism. This was because Mr G 
had passed away suddenly. In those circumstances, some of the answers on his insurance 
application in 2018 might have been relevant to his cause of death including hypertension. 
In reviewing what was set out on the application, L&G acted in accordance with relevant law 
on consumer disclosures. The law as referenced by Mrs Gs solicitor says expressly that an 
insurer has a remedy against a consumer if a misrepresentation was made by the consumer 
before an insurance contract was entered into. For that reason, L&G was reasonable in 
trying to ascertain what should have happened in July and August 2018.  
So, it falls to me to look at what Mr G was asked and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation or not. When he completed the application, he was asked (and answered 
in bold):
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep 
vein thrombosis? Yes - Raised Blood Pressure (Hypertension)
Are you waiting for tests or investigations, or to be seen by a hospital doctor 
or specialist?
Waiting for routine blood pressure check or routine blood test No
Waiting for other tests or investigations No
Waiting to be seen by hospital doctor or specialist No
Currently being seen by hospital doctor or specialist No
None of the above Yes
Have you ever had any of the following?
An ECG which caused your doctor concern or that needed further action No
Hospital admission in the last 12 months, for one night or more, for tests or 
treatment for raised blood pressure No
Neither of the above Yes
Have you been advised at any time to take medication for your blood 
pressure?
Yes
How many different medications do you take to control your blood pressure? 
1
How long ago was your blood pressure last checked by your doctor or nurse? 
0 years 3 months
Do you know the result of your latest blood pressure check taken at your GP's 
surgery? 
Blood pressure is measured by taking systolic pressure (this is the first 
reading) and diastolic pressure (the second reading). For example it would be 
given as 140/90 or 140 over 90. We need you to tell us both figures. Yes
Please tell us your latest blood pressure reading when checked by your 
doctor or nurse.
Systolic pressure: 136
Diastolic pressure: 90
What the medical evidence shows is Mr G began to have issues with his BP in 2015 after 
undertaking home testing, and this came to a head in 2017 where he was seen by an out of 
hours doctor for dizzy spells and high BP  at a level of 185/124. 
On 19 December 2017, Mr G attended his local hospitals accident and emergency 
department. His BP was very high when admitted (250/150 and 205/125 on examination) but 
this dropped to 180/95 when monitored. At that time he was given an electrocardiogram 
which returned normal results, and a letter to his GP confirmed his diagnosis was 
hypertension, likely essential with white coat element. It was noted that Mr G needed a 
review in one week, and a 24-hour BP monitor.  
The GP also told Mr G on 2 January 2018 that he required a 24-hour BP check as soon as 
possible. That day, his recorded BP was 178/20 and the following week on 9 January it was 
164/112. Mr G then underwent the ABPM with the results issued to his GP (by the monitor, 
not by Mr G) on 17 January 2018. The average reading was 133/82 across the 24 hours. As 
a result of that, Mr G was left to continue with an ongoing prescription for the hypertension medication that had been issued to him by the hospital.  
Mr G returned to the GP in March and May 2018 to talk about the prescription and possible 
side effects but remained on the medication and therefore correctly disclosed it to L&G. 
However, his BP readings were not taken at those times.  
Finally, Mr G saw another out of hours doctor at his local hospital on 28 August 2018. Mrs G 
has explained this was merely because he couldnt get a GP appointment and the purpose 
of the visit was not related to blood pressure  it was abdominal pain (which began that day) 
for which he was discharged without further required follow ups. At that consultation, his BP 
was taken and recorded as 187/101. 
Though I realise the solicitor says otherwise, I believe Mr G did not answer all of the subset 
questions about BP accurately. The application was completed on 25 July following a 
quotation a week previously. I realise Mrs G feels this was in April 2018 because they began 
to seek their mortgage at this time, but the insurance application is dated from July 2018. 
Mr G did not give the right date when asked how long ago his BP was checked by a doctor 
or nurse. If he was referring to the ABPM then this was obtained six months prior, not three. 
And, he was asked if he knew the result  but gave an incorrect account of that too. 
I know the solicitor has explained this was actually higher (and therefore Mr G wasnt 
seeking to deceive L&G). I accept that. But that is not the relevant test here. I must 
determine if a question or questions were answered incorrectly  and the three subset 
questions about knowing what his BP was at the latest check by a doctor or nurse were 
wrongly answered by Mr G. If he didnt know the figures, he had the option to say no.  
The relevant law on consumer disclosures explains that an insurer only has a remedy 
against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by that person before a consumer 
insurance contract was entered into for qualifying misrepresentations. What that means is if 
(a) the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation; and b) if the insurer shows that without the 
misrepresentation, it would have entered into the contract on different terms.  
In deciding if Mr G made a qualifying misrepresentation, I believe both of those points are 
satisfied. In respect of Mr G taking reasonable care, I need to consider how clear and 
specific the questions were. Both parties have made detailed arguments around the 
admissibility of the ABPM readings, specifically whether these amount to BP readings taken 
by a doctor or nurse.  
I cant repeat L&Gs underwriting manual information in full, as it is commercially sensitive. 
However, I have reviewed it in its entirety and it does confirm that it will not place reliance on 
ABPM over single readings, and it will use the latter for underwriting. Nonetheless, that 
wasnt known to Mr G at the time he answered his questions, A preference for individual 
readings over ABPM is a decision for L&G to make, but a customer would not identify that.  
I do not accept L&Gs argument that Mr G knew or should have known that ABPM readings 
were not sufficient as a blood pressure reading when checked by your doctor or nurse. 
Those readings were checked by the GP surgery, and no further action was taken. 
Nonetheless, I believe Mr G was asked clear questions as to whether or not he knew how 
long ago his BP was taken (and, in the absence of clarification, by whatever means) and 
what that reading was. He gave incorrect answers to those three things. So, it follows I 
believe he should have answered no to that question  because he did not have the right 
date or recording to disclose, and he must have known this was important to L&G given he had disclosed his hypertension and need for medication to treat it.  
But, even if I was to take a view that Mr G hadnt made a qualifying misrepresentation when 
completing the application on 25 July 2018, I believe a further occurrence of the same took 
place on 28 August  the day before the policy went on risk, when Mr G attended A&E. Mrs 
G says he was likely not told what his BP reading was in the hospital. And she has given a 
plausible explanation for the reading given Mr Gs one-off readings taken by medical 
professionals were higher than the ABPM due to white coat syndrome.  
I accept that and understand that white coat syndrome can be the cause for these readings. 
But, I also have to consider what Mr G was asked in his application and the ongoing duty he 
had to correct any answers before the policy came into force. That is because Mr and Mrs G 
confirmed they agreed to a declaration which said:
Declaration
This Declaration must be read by [Mr G] and [Mrs G] before proceeding with
this application.
The information given in this application has been provided truthfully and 
accurately.
We agree to immediately inform Legal & General in writing if there are 
any changes to any answers given on the application before the policy 
starts [my emphasis].
We are aware that the information provided will form part of the legal 
relationship between us and if any of it is found to be incorrect it may mean 
that a claim is not paid or the poiicy(ies) is amended or cancelled.
I accept that Mr G might not have known what his BP reading was when he attended 
hospital. But, he would have known the BP was taken. And this affected his policy answers 
because he was specifically asked to tell L&G, how long ago was your blood pressure last 
checked by your doctor or nurse?. This was proximate to the policy starting. In my view, a 
person undertaking reasonable care in line with the declaration above should have known 
that an answer given to L&G was now incorrect in response to a clear question.  
So, on either basis, I believe there was a qualifying misrepresentation. Once a qualifying 
misrepresentation has been established, relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance 
contracts says that it should be classed as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
The types of categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. 
Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight to serious 
negligence, and I think Mr Gs actions sit in the lower end of that range of responses. I 
sympathise with Mrs G, as I accept that Mr G had answered all of the other information 
about his BP and ECG correctly and it was clearly not his intent to mislead L&G.  
But I have to be reasonable to both parties in the complaint, and L&G was not at fault for not 
being told the right time frame and results from the GP in the original July 2018 application 
or that a fresh reading was taken by a doctor in August 2018 before the policy began. It 
needed to know about them, so it could seek to ascertain the risk and cost of offering Mr G 
insurance cover.    
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy and return 
the premiums paid by the customer from the outset.  
If Mr G had correctly told L&G in July 2018 and August 2018 that he did not know his most 
recent BP readings, it would have sought that evidence from the GP records. Had it done so, 
it would have made the commercial decision in line with its underwriting manual to take the 
single BP readings from the two in January 2018 or the one in August 2018. All three of 
these were beyond its tolerance for accepting cover, and it would have postponed the 
application for six months and twelve months respectively, awaiting the impact of Mr Gs 
prescribed medication.  
The ABI Code of Practice in respect of careless misrepresentation when deciding a 
proportionate remedy (the 2019 Code) says:
9.2. The outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have been 
had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time the customer took out the policy, 
as follows
9.2.5 The underwriting decision would have been deferred or where the 
decision to defer the cover would have been made  in this case, insurers 
should, as far as possible, try to determine what the ultimate underwriting 
decision would have been (that is, at the end of the deferred period or when 
the investigation was complete) and apply the appropriate remedy, as above. 
If it is not possible to work out whether the insurer would have offered any 
cover, or if the deferral decision would have required the customer to re-apply 
at a future date, then this should be treated as a decline in 9.2.4 above.
L&G has worked out that the ultimate underwriting decision after the postponement would be 
a decline and its underwriters have provided guidance to demonstrate as such. It hasnt had 
the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2018 as it would have if it had known about Mr Gs 
correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the relevant law, guidance, 
and the policy terms for it to decline the claim and void the policy now. 
The only remaining point is that L&G would not have voided Mrs Gs cover and I can see it 
made her an offer as to what to do with the policy going forward, but neither party has 
confirmed what has happened since. If Mrs G did not carry on with the policy, I trust L&G will 
have returned her premiums as directed. This decision does not have any bearing on Mrs 
Gs insurance, should that matter remain unresolved.  
My final decision
As Ive set out above, I consider L&G has acted reasonably in determining it could not have 
insured Mr G in July or August 2018 if it had known his correct medical history relating to 
blood pressure. 
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Gs circumstances, I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman