DRN-2289422
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited wont cancel her student loan due to 
arrears on the account.
What happened
Miss Z has a student loan that is managed by Erudio. In May 2016 she applied for the loan 
to be deferred as she had done for a number of years. Erudio responded to request some 
more information in order to process the deferment. However it says this additional 
information was not received for a number of months and in this time arrears built up on the 
account. 
Miss Z made a complaint about this in November 2018 which she brought to our service in 
2020. However we were unable to consider the complaint as it was not brought to us in time.
Following this, in August 2020, she made a further complaint to Erudio. Miss Z said she 
didnt think it was fair that she would no longer be eligible for her loan to be cancelled due to 
the arrears. She also complained about the service she had received from Erudio while 
making the complaint as she had been given wrong information on phone calls and had to 
contact Erudio a number of times.
Erudio partially upheld her complaint. It said that she wouldnt be eligible for cancellation of 
the loan while the account was still in arrears. However it accepted that it had provided poor 
service and offered £150 compensation in total, to include reimbursement for any calls 
made. 
Miss Z didnt think this was fair as she didnt agree her account should be in arrears. She 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend Miss Zs complaint be 
upheld. She said that Erudio is acting within its terms and conditions by not writing off the 
loan while there is arrears on the account. She said that as the other points Miss Z had 
raised were in relation to complaint handling, this isnt a regulated activity so she couldnt 
consider those further. 
Miss Z didnt agree with this and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider whether Erudio has acted 
fairly and in line with its terms and conditions. In this case Miss Z is unhappy that Erudio has 
said it wont be able to cancel her student loan as she is currently in arrears. 
I should start by noting that I appreciate Miss Z doesnt agree that her account should be in 
arrears. However this part of her complaint was considered by Erudio in 2018 and was 
brought to this service outside of the timescale required. A decision has already been issued 
on this point concluding it doesnt fall into our jurisdiction, so I am not considering her 
concerns about this as part of this decision. Only about whether Erudio has acted fairly in 
relation to the cancelation of the loan.
Erudio has provided a copy of the terms and conditions of the arrangement it entered into 
with Miss Z. Under the section relating to cancellation it states as follows:
We will cancel your liability to repay the loan if you:
(a) die; or
(b) are not behind with any repayments under any agreement for a student loan and you:
(i) were under the age of 40 when your last agreement for a student loan was made
and you reach the age of 50 or when your last agreement for a student loan has
been outstanding for not less than 25 years, whichever is the sooner; or
(ii)were aged 40 or older when your last agreement for a student loan was made and
you reach the age of 60; or
(c) if you show us that you get a disability related benefit and because of your disability
are permanently unfit for work.
I assume Miss Z is familiar with these terms as she is aware of the entitlement to cancel the 
loan when she reaches 50 or it has been outstanding for 25 years. 
However the term clearly states that this will only apply if you are not behind with any 
repayments on the loan. 
In this instance Erudio has said that the reason it will be unable to cancel the loan is 
because it is in arrears, and from the information provided, I can see this is the case. So 
Miss Z is behind on a repayment. When Miss Z entered into the agreement with Erudio she 
agreed to the terms and conditions. And I can see that this only allows her the right to cancel 
if payments are up to date. So Erudio are acting fairly by applying this term here.
Further it has offered her the opportunity to clear the £94.46 outstanding balance, as long as 
it is paid before 7 September 2021. And has said if this is paid then and the remaining 
balance will be cancelled. And I think this is fair. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
In relation to Miss Zs other points of concern, I note they relate to how Erudio has handled 
her complaint. We arent able to consider every complaint that is brought to this service. The 
rules for the complaints we can and cant look at are laid out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules.
One of those rules, DISP 2.3.1 (1), sets out that we can only consider complaints about 
regulated activities. Complaint handling isnt an activity that is regulated by the FCA. So this 
service isnt able to decide on complaints about how a business has applied and carried out 
its only complaints procedure. I therefore wont be making an assessment on these elements 
of Miss Zs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Erudio Student Loans Limited to do anything 
differently. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman