DRN-3212161
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund him two payments 
he made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2017, Mr H saw an advert online about how a celebrity made millions of dollars using a 
platform and special software to make trades using a company Ill refer to as A. Mr H left his 
contact details and received a call from an agent who worked for A.
Mr H says the agent was very polite and explained the investment plans and provided 
screenshots of accounts of other investors who had made big profits. Mr H understood the 
investment to involve trading in general stocks, shares and commodities using a software 
platform and an algorithm which made the trades.
Mr H says he was looking to buy a car at the time and wanted an investment that provided a 
passive profit. He says there were good reviews about the company and that he checked 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register and saw the company was authorised  so 
decided to invest.
Mr H made an initial payment of £1,000 on 3 October 2017, followed by a second payment 
of just under £700 on 24 November 2017.
Mr H says he became aware that he had been the victim of a scam when he was contacted 
by the FCA. But didnt realise he could make a claim through his bank to try and recover his 
funds. It wasnt until September 2020 that Mr H contacted Halifax and raised a fraud claim, 
asking them to refund the two payments hed made.
Halifax investigated Mr Hs fraud claim and declined to refund him. They told Mr H the 
payments werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) as the 
payments were made prior to its introduction in May 2019. And that there was nothing about 
the payments that caused concern, so they had no reason to prevent the payments at the 
time.
Mr H was unhappy with Halifaxs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt the payments 
werent particularly unusual or suspicious so didnt feel Halifax shouldve intervened before 
processing the payments. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He accepted that the amount of the payments 
may not have been unusual but highlighted that they were paid to new payees. And that he 
felt Halifax had failed to meet their obligations around detecting and preventing fraud, saying 
they shouldve called him prior to processing the payments. He also pointed to the warning 
that he says was in place at the time on the FCAs website for the investment company.
As Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
I can see that Mr H authorised the payments via his mobile or online banking, although I 
accept this was as a result of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the 
money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009, and the terms 
and conditions of his account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly in processing Mr Hs payments, or whether 
they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made.
In this case, the payments made were for £1,000 and just under £700. While I appreciate 
that for Mr H this involves a large sum of money, Im not satisfied that there is enough about 
his payments to the scammers that made them appear particularly unusual or out of 
character, whereby I wouldve expected them to flag with Halifax or cause concern. 
Mr H has highlighted that both payments were made to new payees, but they didnt clear his 
account balance, they werent for a significant amount of money and they werent part of a 
chain or pattern of transactions that mayve suggested that Mr H had been the victim of 
fraud. And in looking at the payments he made and whether they shouldve flagged, I have 
to look at more than just one factor in considering whether there were signs that mightve 
indicated to Halifax that he was at risk of fraud.
The fact that the payments were made to a new payee, isnt by itself enough for me to fairly 
say that Halifax shouldve contacted Mr H or intervened prior to processing the payments. 
There has to be a balance between Halifax identifying payments that potentially indicate 
fraud and appropriately acting on those concerns and ensuring minimal disruption to every 
day genuine payments. And while I appreciate that Mr H may disagree, I dont think that 
Halifax shouldve called Mr H or that Halifax acted unfairly in processing both payments 
without intervention.Could Halifax have recovered the funds for Mr H from the beneficiary accounts
Mr H reported the fraud three years after the payments were made and unfortunately no 
funds could be recovered from the beneficiary accounts. From what Ive seen all of the funds 
were removed from those accounts within days of them receiving his payments in 2017. So, 
Im satisfied that Halifax couldnt have done anything further to recover the funds for Mr H.
I appreciate that Mr H is going to be very disappointed as hes lost what he considers a 
significant amount of money and feels let down by Halifax. But for the reasons given about, I 
cant fairly hold Halifax liable and ask them to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman