DRN-4315804
The complaint
S, a limited company, has complained Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, wont refund 
money they lost from their account after being the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr J is the sole director of S, that holds a business account with Wise. I shall refer to both 
Mr J and S throughout this decision.
In 2022 S was trying to purchase tank storage for jet fuel. They were recommended a 
potential supplier, who Ill call F. Mr J gets in touch and believes F is a viable concern, 
offering a product at an appropriate cost.
Mr J tried to make an initial payment using his own personal account with a separate bank. 
This wasnt successful so he used Ss account with Wise. Two payments of £13,000 and 
£17,000 were made in December 2022 and January 2023.
Within a couple of months Mr J realised something had gone wrong. He had not been able 
to contact F further.
Mr J took Ss complaint to Wise complaining theyd done little to protect S from this scam. 
Wise didnt believe they should refund S as they felt there was no indication that S was 
carrying out any risky transactions. The amounts being paid werent unusual for the running 
of a business account.
Mr J brought Ss complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt it was difficult to see what action Wise could have taken that would have 
deterred Mr J from making the payments on Ss behalf. She didnt believe it would be fair to 
ask Wise to refund S.
Still dissatisfied, Mr J has asked an ombudsman to consider Ss complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
I dont dispute S was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of money. 
I can see S made and authorised the payments. Mr J believed he was dealing with a 
genuine trading company and all the conversations, documents and activity led him to be 
convinced F was genuine.
Im satisfied those transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs).
Its also accepted that Wise has an obligation to follow Ss instructions. So in the first 
instance S is presumed liable for their loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Wise should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
S fell victim to a convincing purchase scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual. 
It is clear from the testimony Ive seen from Mr J that he firmly believed he was dealing with 
a genuine company. 
Its clear that Mr J was having regular WhatsApp conversations with F during the period hed 
made the initial transaction from his personal account, whilst this payment was delayed. Ive 
reviewed this correspondence and I can see Mr J found nothing odd throughout that made 
him question what was going on. That included being aware of negative reviews for F which 
Mr J had been encouraged (and was willing) to ignore.
Ive seen correspondence with Mr Js personal bank and its clear that they issued warnings 
about the potential risk for such a payment  including its size. Im not going to suggest Mr J 
had detailed conversations with his bank about exactly the nature of this transaction, but he 
would have found it difficult to have avoided scam warnings that may have seemed similar to 
Ss experience.
This all leads me to agree with our investigators assessment that Mr J would have ignored 
any warnings that Wise could have issued (despite them not doing so).
Ive also considered what action Wise took when made aware by Mr J that S had been 
scammed. Its clear that they tried to recoup Ss funds but found out pretty quickly that there 
was no hope of doing so.
Overall I cant fairly tell Wise to refund Ss money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ss complaint against Wise 
Payments Limited, trading as Wise.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman