DRN-1214259
Complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) has charged excessive fees and 
interest on his two credit cards and wishes these to be refunded and an apology made. 
Background
Mr H has credit cards with Capital One and feels that over a period of time they have 
charged excessive fees for late payments and exceeding his credit limits. He also is 
unhappy that his credit limit was increased when he didnt request this and Capital One 
should have been aware that he was in financial difficulty. 
Capital One says that the fees were charged in line with their terms and conditions and Mr H 
was sent a letter informing him of the credit limit increase. They also say that their usual 
credit checks were performed at the time of the increase and have now agreed a repayment 
plan with Mr H. Mr H was unhappy with their response and the matter was referred to this 
service. 
The Investigator gathered the relevant information available but didnt uphold the complaint 
saying that the fees were in line with the credit agreement and applied correctly. The 
Investigator also felt that sufficient credit checks had been taken by Capital One and they 
had informed Mr H of the increase limit to his card within a reasonable notice period. Mr H 
didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree with the view of the 
Investigator and for much the same reasons. Im sorry that Mr H feels the charges are 
excessive and Ill explain why I have come to my decision. 
The fees charged by Capital One, as listed by Mr H, are in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. The details of the fees are also clearly shown in each statement Mr H has 
received. So I think its fair to say that  Mr H should have known about these charges when 
they were applied and  had several opportunities from the first date the charges were made, 
to when he eventually informed Capital One he was having financial difficulties, to have 
raised this.
Of these charges only two fees were made after Mr H had told Capital One he was having 
financial difficulties, so I am satisfied these have been charged fairly and line with the terms 
and conditions. A refund of one of the charges has since been made by Capital One, without 
any obligation. So, I am satisfied that they have acted fairly here.    
I have also looked at the fees of £12 for late payments or exceeding the limit charged to Mr 
Hs account. In April 2006, The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) said that credit card providers 
should ensure charges like the ones here are a fair reflection of the cost of extra 
administration involved in missing a payment or making it late. While The OFT didnt say 
specifically what a fair charge might be, it did say it wouldnt take further action if charges were set below £12. Capital One set its charges at £12, and thats what its charged Mr H 
here, so I think the charges were fair and applied correctly.
I have considered the increased credit card limit and whether Capital One acted 
responsibly - as this service would expect. The increased limit was some years before they 
became aware of any financial problems and from the information I have available they did 
carry out their own credit checks. It is not for me to tell Capital One what its checks should 
consist of, but to look at whether they were proportionate in all the circumstances here.
I have taken the view that for an increase of £250 they have acted appropriately and fairly 
here, at the time.  They cannot provide the actual letter sent to Mr H but they did provide an 
example of one which does show the options available to Mr H, which included the 
opportunity to decline the increase.  On top of this Mr H would have received a monthly 
statement on his account which does show the limit on the account. So even if Mr H didnt 
receive the letter, he still would have had other opportunities to have known the limit had 
been increased.
I can see that Mr H did contact Capital One about his financial difficulties and they wrote 
back to him seeking further information, with a view to setting up a payment plan. Following 
this they sent him regular statements that say  Contact us  Financial Difficulties  if you 
find yourself in financial difficulty please contact us straight away .We may be able to help 
you. 
It was some months before Mr H eventually contacted Capital One and arranged a payment 
plan and I have considered if Capital One could have done more. During this time the 
account did see payments made for more than the minimum needed, so it is not 
unreasonable to think that a payment plan wasnt needed. 
Ive also considered that, by this point, Capital One had already said that it would look at 
what it could do to help, but needed more information about his financial position before it 
could properly assess the most appropriate course of action. I think that was a fair response. 
So I am satisfied that Mr H had the opportunity to contact Capital One and discuss his 
financial position and was given sufficient reminders to do this.
Overall here, I am satisfied that Capital One has acted fairly. I know that my decision will 
disappoint Mr H but I do not feel that I can ask anymore of Capital One here. I can only 
suggest that Mr H stays in contact with Capital One to discuss the situation, especially if the 
repayment plan thats in place is causing him any difficulties.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
7 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman