DRN-3039961
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society gave him more
money than the amount documented from the insolvency service and that they allowed a
transaction to be honoured which made him overdrawn.
What happened
Mr F says he lodged an insolvency petition on 17 June 2019 which stated he would receive
a decision in 28 days. On 19 June 2019 he authorised a payment of £299.99 to a third party
company. The insolvency service wrote a letter to Mr F dated 20 June 2019 to state that a
bankruptcy order was made against him on 18 June 2019.
Mr F says that he refused the delivery from the third party. He says that his account wasnt
showing a pending transaction so he believed that he wouldnt be charged for the items or if
he was then this would be refunded by the third party. A block had been placed on Mr Fs
account once Halifax were aware of the insolvency proceedings.
Mr F took his letter from the insolvency service into the branch on 26 June 2019. He says
that the letter said he could have £16.95 but the branch manager gave him £305 as he says
that was his available balance. Mr F said that the branch manager did not follow Halifaxs
procedure as she didnt contact the insolvency team to check he was authorised to withdraw
much more than the figure on his letter.
As part of Mr Fs insolvency, his account needed to be closed down. But on 26 June 2019,
£299.99 debited Mr Fs account, leaving him overdrawn. The third party company had not
cancelled his transaction when Mr F refused the goods he ordered.
Mr F complained to Halifax as he felt they should have blocked the payment since there was
a block on his account. He didnt feel the overdraft was his fault as he expected the refund to
have gone directly into his account when they had taken the funds on 26 June 2019 and
wasnt aware there was a problem until he saw the account online months later. He didnt
want his credit file to be affected by this.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. They said the reason the payment to the third party
was authorised prior to the account being marked for closure, was because although there
were blocks on the account to prevent him from using it, they processed the payment in line
with the date it was originally authorised. The account was marked for closure but due to it
being overdrawn, it could not be closed. Halifax said they advised Mr F of this when he
spoke to them on 27 June 2019. Mr F brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said the letter from the insolvency
service showed Halifax could release the balance to Mr F and that the letter acknowledged
that the balance could be different. He said the payment to the third party had already been
processed prior to his account being blocked so he didnt think Halifax did anything wrong by
allowing the payment to debit Mr Fs account.
Our investigator said that on the call that Mr F had with Halifax on 27 June 2019, Mr F was
made aware that his account was overdrawn, and because hed mentioned to Halifax about
the disputed third party payment, this showed Mr F was aware at this time that a refund
hadnt been credited to his account. So Mr F still had time to raise this with the third party or
raise a chargeback to receive the funds. He said the evidence suggests Mr F was aware the
payment had gone through, but the refund hadnt been received and that Halifax hadnt done
anything wrong.
Mr F asked for a Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points such as
after knowing he was insolvent, Halifax allowed him to enter into an unarranged overdraft
knowing that he couldnt pay it back. Halifax knew he was bankrupt prior to releasing the
funds in question, Halifax then placed a marker on his account that wouldnt allow funds to
enter his account therefore his refund never entered the account and Halifax had removed
his access to the account until a time when all options available to him had lapsed to receive
the refund.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr F has said about the branch manager authorising a withdrawal for
more than was showing on the letter from the insolvency service. But Im satisfied that
Halifax havent made an error here.
I say this as although the letter states the insolvency services understanding of his account
balance is £16.95, the reality is that looking at Mr Fs statements, his balance was
significantly more than this, even when he was declared bankrupt. The letter states the
balance should be released to the bankrupt. It also goes on to say that if the balance has
changed then the instruction is still valid. So Im not persuaded that Halifax did anything
wrong by authorising the £305 withdrawal to him.
Halifax have provided me with a call which Mr F made to their insolvency team when a state
benefit wasnt paid into the account due to the block being placed on his account. The call is
before Mr F makes the withdrawal from the branch. Mr F says on the call theres £305
already in the account that I can have access to as per a letter of instruction from the
insolvency practitioner and Im going to go to the branch and Im going to give them the
letter and get the £305. So Im persuaded that Mr F knew that he could access this amount
and not just £16.95. The call handler, who works in the insolvency team also confirms this as
she says you can definitely get the funds for the amount of £305.50 since you do have that
letter.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said about the branch manager authorising the payment
without contacting the insolvency team. Im unable to say one way or another whether this
happened or not as the branch manager no longer works for Halifax. But Im not persuaded
that it makes a difference to the outcome of Mr Fs complaint.
I say this as Halifaxs system notes confirms that Halifax were made aware of the bankruptcy
on 25 June 2019 and they were advised that Mr Fs balance could be released to him. So
Im not persuaded that the branch manager needed to ring their insolvency helpline based
on the system note. Also, the insolvency team authorised this withdrawal to Mr F on thephone and Mr F told them how much he was going to withdraw. So Im not persuaded that
Halifax made an error here. Ultimately Mr F agreed to the withdrawal and had planned to
withdraw £305 before he went to the branch as evidenced by the call he had with Halifaxs
insolvency team.
I know Mr F feels that Halifax would have known that there was a pending transaction, and
the transaction should have been blocked. But when a transaction is authorised, the third
party chooses whether to earmark the funds  not Halifax. But there are sometimes
occasions when they dont earmark the funds. If this is the case then the branch staff would
have no way of knowing what transactions have been authorised. So Im not persuaded that
the branch manager was aware that £299.99 would debit the account.
Mr F had been made aware that on 27 June 2019 that the £299.99 had been debited from
his account. So I would expect Mr F to ensure that the refund had been made before his
account would be able to be closed. Mr F is correct when he says that because there was a
block on his account then a refund wouldnt be able to credit his account.
But I cant say that this is a Halifax error as Mr F knew there was a block on his account
when he called the insolvency team regarding his benefits not being paid into the account.
So he had time to contact the third party to let them know if they were going to make a
refund to the account, that it wouldnt work. He also had time to raise a chargeback at this
time if he wanted to. But there is no evidence that he had done so. Halifax confirmed to me
that had a chargeback been successful then the money would have been paid into a
suspense account. So Im not persuaded that Halifax had removed access to his account
until the time lapsed for his options to receive a refund.
Ive also considered what Mr F has said about Halifax allowing him to enter into an
unarranged overdraft knowing that he couldnt pay it back. And that Halifax knew he was
bankrupt prior to releasing the funds in question. But because the transaction was
authorised by Mr F before Halifax were notified that Mr F was bankrupt then this payment
was guaranteed.
So although Halifax were aware he was bankrupt by the time the funds left his account, it
would not be reasonable for Halifax to be responsible to fund the payment as it would be Mr
Fs responsibility to ensure that there were enough funds in his account. It would also be his
responsibility to ensure that the third party had refunded his money back to him if he rejected
the goods. As Mr F was in credit on 18 June 2019, this account was not included in the
insolvency.
Mr F wants Halifax to close his overdrawn account and amend his credit file. But as Halifax
have reported his account activity correctly, I do not intend to ask Halifax to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Halifax accepted my provisional decision. Mr F did not and raised a number of 
points which I will summarise below.
Mr F said that a more accurate description of his complaint would be: The Halifax 
removed my access to the bank accounts covered by the insolvency and in doing so 
removed my ability to see that the refund had not been credited into my bank account as 
I was informed that it would. When Halifax inadvertently reinstated my access, it was too 
late (90 day period had elapsed) to investigate the matter with the 3rd and 4th parties 
involved in this matter.
Mr F also said that the block on his account was placed by Halifax on 19 June 2019. He also says that his insolvency letter clearly stated he could have the £16.95 balance 
unless the balance has changed, but the balance didnt change between the dates of 18 
June 2019 and 25 June 2019 so only the £16.95 shouldve been released. 
Mr F says that when the marker was removed from his account to release the funds to 
him, in the seconds that it took to do that, the payment for his third party goods was 
made and if they hadnt removed the marker then the payment for £299.99 would still be 
pending. He says he was assured by Halifax on 27 June 2019 that as the refund 
wouldnt have been credited to his account within the day it was took, that even with a 
marker on the account the payment would enter his account and clear the unarranged 
overdraft. Mr F says although he knew he was overdrawn on 27 June, he didnt know the 
account was still overdrawn 12-16 months later until Halifax reinstated his access to his 
accounts.
Mr F concluded that Halifax made several errors in addition to the ones listed above 
such as they were aware he had a pending transaction for £299.99, yet they still 
released the funds allocated for the transaction to him, they knew he was bankrupt prior 
to 26 June 2019, but they had a copy of the bankruptcy order on 19 June 2019, Halifax 
removed his access to the bank accounts covered by the insolvency and did not send 
him notification with regards to the unarranged overdraft until the access had been 
reinstated. Mr F also said that because Halifax did not communicate to him their actions, 
this directly removed his ability to get the payment from the third parties involved in the 
£299.99 transaction as the 90 day period to do so had elapsed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr F has said about how I categorised his complaint. My intention was 
to give a very brief introduction about the crux of the complaint. But I did address the points 
he brought up in my provisional decision. So I can assure Mr F I have read and listened to 
everything he said and sent us. 
Ive thought about what Mr F has said regarding Halifax placing a block on his account on 19 
June 2019. But the evidence Ive seen  namely an audit log of the bankruptcy indicator 
being placed on the account clearly shows that the block was placed onto his account on 25 
June 2019. This also is what Halifaxs system notes confirms. So Im satisfied that the block 
wasnt placed on his account on 19 June 2019 and that they didnt have a copy of the 
bankruptcy order on 19 June 2019.
Mr F says that £16.95 should have been released from the account due to the insolvency 
letter and the fact his balance hadnt changed from 18 June 2019 to 25 June 2019. But his 
bank statements show that his balance had changed a lot during this period. At the 
beginning of 18 June, his account balance shows as £2,927.08. Between 18-25 June there 
are credits into the account on four different occasions ranging from £8.60 to £600. And 
there were several outgoings during this period. By 25 June his balance showed as £305.50. 
So Im satisfied the balance changed a lot in the timeframe mentioned. This also shows that 
if the faster payments went into his account during this timeframe then the block had not 
been placed on his account as these payments would have been rejected. 
In addition, as mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr F had said himself on the call before 
he went into the branch to withdraw his money that theres £305 already in the account that 
I can have access to as per a letter of instruction from the insolvency practitioner and Im 
going to go to the branch and Im going to give them the letter and get the £305. So Im persuaded that Mr F knew that he could access this amount and not just £16.95. The call 
handler, who works in the insolvency team also confirms this as she says you can definitely 
get the funds for the amount of £305.50 since you do have that letter. So Im satisfied that 
Mr F knew he could access the balance and wanted to do so.
Next Ive thought about what Mr F has said about the £299.99 payment would still be 
pending if Halifax didnt remove the marker to give him his money as in the seconds they 
removed the marker the £299.99 was authorised. Ive looked at the audit log on his account 
which gives the exact time transactions occurred on his account. It appears that Mr F had 
withdrawn his funds at 16:11 on 26 June, whereas the transaction for £299.99 was paid at 
18:30. 
So Im not persuaded that the limited removal of the marker was responsible for the payment 
being made. As it had previously been explained to Mr F, because the transaction was 
authorised by Mr F before Halifax were notified that Mr F was bankrupt and the block being 
placed on his account then this payment was guaranteed. So Im satisfied the £299.99 would 
have left his account regardless of whether the marker was removed or not.
Mr F says although he knew he was overdrawn on 27 June, he didnt know the account was 
still overdrawn 12-16 months later until Halifax reinstated his access to his accounts. Halifax 
have provided log in records to show that Mr F accessed his online banking after the marker 
had been placed on his account and he regularly requested full enquiries in July. They say 
that this shows he was actively logging onto his online banking and checking the account up 
until November 2019.
Ive also seen evidence that Halifax sent Mr F a letter on 22 August 2019. This letter 
confirmed to Mr F that he had no credits into his account over the last 63 days and that he is 
overdrawn. So Im satisfied that Halifax made him aware that he was overdrawn. So 
although Mr F said Halifax did not communicate to him their actions, which directly removed 
his ability to get the payment from the third parties involved in the £299.99 transaction as the 
90 day period to do so had elapsed, this would have been within a 90 day period. So Im not 
persuaded that Halifax directly removed his ability to receive his funds back.
Mr F says he was told on 27 June 2019, that even with a marker on the account, the 
payment would enter his account and clear the unarranged overdraft. But Ive listened to the 
call he had with Halifax on 27 June. He was told that any payments going into his account 
after the block had been placed on 25 June would be rejected. Mr F had already 
experienced this with his benefit payments. So he would be aware that any refund would be 
rejected. As Mr F had pointed out that the refund wouldnt have had time to be made from 
when the payment was taken, to when he had this phone call. So Mr F would have had time 
to communicate this to the third party to see how they could return his £299.99. 
In the event that the refund was attempted to have been paid into his account, it would have 
been returned to the third party within five working days and this was explained on the call to 
Mr F similar to what happened with his benefit payments. So Im persuaded that Halifax did 
make it clear that any payment would be rejected and that Mr F had time to speak with the 
third party company to arrange an alternative method for his refund or raise a chargeback for 
the transaction. And while the chargeback payment wouldnt have credited his account, 
Halifax confirmed that the refund would be held in a suspense account and then could be 
refunded to him if authorised. But no chargeback was raised.
Ive considered what Mr F said about Halifax being aware he had a pending transaction for 
£299.99 yet they still released the funds allocated for the transaction to him. But as I had 
mentioned in my provisional decision I know Mr F feels that Halifax would have known that 
there was a pending transaction, and the transaction should have been blocked. But when a transaction is authorised, the third party chooses whether to earmark the funds  not Halifax. 
But there are sometimes occasions when they dont earmark the funds. If this is the case 
then the branch staff would have no way of knowing what transactions have been 
authorised. So Im not persuaded that the branch manager was aware that £299.99 would 
debit the account. So Im still satisfied that the Halifax staff werent aware that he had a 
pending transaction.
In summary, Mr Fs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr F will be disappointed with the
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman