DRN-2816968
The complaint
Ms F complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly 
because she couldnt afford the loan repayments. 
What happened
Ms F took three loans between February 2017 and February 2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
dateactual 
repayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
repaymentsDeferrals
1 £350 20/02/2017 28/09/2017 6 1
2 £500 29/09/2017 12/02/2018 5 1
3 £1,000 28/02/2018 outstanding 12
Ms F has had some problems repaying her final loan and based on the statement of account 
provided by Mr Lender an outstanding balance remains. 
One of our adjudicators initially looked into Ms Fs complaint. He didnt think it was wrong
for Mr Lender to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the adjudicator thought that further checks 
needed to have been carried out before loan 3 was approved. Had Mr Lender carried out 
further checks it wouldve discovered Ms F had at least four other outstanding short-term 
loans outstanding. So, she couldnt afford to take on loan 3. 
Ms F appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators opinion. It referenced the adjudicator back to a 
previous final decision that said the credit checks it carried out may not have seen 
everything visible in a customers credit file. And based on the credit checks it conducted for 
the third loan, it wasnt aware of any other outstanding loans. 
As no agreement could be reached the case the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms F. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the new arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
It appears that both parties have accepted the outcome about loans 1 and 2, so I no longer 
think there is an outstanding dispute about these loans. But for the avoidance of doubt, I 
agree with the adjudicators findings about these loans, that Mr Lender wasnt wrong to 
provide them. 
Instead this decision will focus on loan 3, as this is the loan where there is a dispute. But 
loans 1 and 2 did form part of a lending chain and Ive kept these loans in mind when 
thinking about loan 3. 
Loan 3
To start with Im sorry to hear about Ms Fs health problems. I do hope things have improved 
for her.  
For this loan, Ms F told Mr Lender her income was £1,229 per month with monthly outgoings 
of £527. This wouldve left her £702 disposable income to be able to afford the largest repayment of £209.33. Based on this information Mr Lender may have thought that Ms F 
would be able to sustainably repay her loan commitments. 
Ive considered what Mr Lender says, about its credit checks which it carried out before this 
loan was approved. It says that based on what it has provided us in the summary it wasnt 
aware of any other outstanding short-term loans. While, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to 
have relied on this information early on, I dont think it was entitled to rely solely on what it 
found out before this loan was approved. I think checks Mr Lender carried out needed to go 
further. 
This is because Loan 3, was Ms Fs largest capital loan to date and it was due to be repaid 
over the longest term  12 months. By the time this loan was approved, Ms F had already 
been indebted to Mr Lender for a year, and she was now extending her indebtedness for an 
additional 12 months. 
There also wasnt any significant break between the loans. Ms F took loan 2, the day after 
loan 1 was repaid. While loan 3 was taken only a couple of weeks after loan 2. So, I think Ms 
F was starting to show that she needed to take a new loan fairly quickly after the last one 
had been repaid. 
Finally, ordinarily, one deferral on each previous loan isnt on its own enough to warrant 
further checks after all deferrals are allowed, and Mr Lender has granted these in line with 
industry regulations. But the fact that Ms F had deferred repayment on her previous lending, 
coupled with the increasing loans and short gaps meant that by now, in my view, it was no 
longer reasonable to have solely relied on what Ms F was telling it. 
In my view, had further checks shouldve been carried out such as verifying the information 
Ms F had provided. It couldve done this a number of ways, such as asking to see copies of 
bank statements. While, I dont have Ms Fs bank statements, I have been able to determine, 
through other complaints at this service, that Ms F already had at least four outstanding 
short-term loans when she was given loan 3. Loans that were due to be repaid in the period 
that this loan payments were due. 
This number of outstanding short-term loans in view was a sign that Ms F was likely having 
problems managing her money. In these circumstances, I think Mr Lender ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Ms F wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan. 
So, overall, having considered everything Im upholding Ms Fs complaint in part as I think 
Mr Lender were wrong to approve loan 3.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loan 3 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Ms F may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Ms F may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, orindeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Mr Lender was wrong to approve loan 3. 
If Mr Lender sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to and then take the 
following steps. If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 3, 
and treat any repayments made by Ms F as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. 
B. If this results in Ms F having made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments wouldve arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. However, if there is still an outstanding balance due then Mr Lender should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms F. Id remind Mr Lender of its obligation 
to treat Ms F fairly. 
D. Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in 
relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should
give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Fs complaint in part.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should put things right for Ms F as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman