DRN-2784104
Complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester mis-
sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
At a meeting in 2002, Mr P took out an MPPI policy. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. The MPPI covered him in the event he was off work due to illness or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and says he was made to believe he had to have MPPI as part of the mortgage deal. He 
says if he had been given the correct information, he wouldnt have taken the MPPI. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
On 11 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Mr P and Lloyds an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what 
I said:
Theres limited information available from the time the MPPI was sold to Mr P, which isnt 
surprising given the sale took place many years ago. As a result, Lloyds hasnt been able to 
provide copies of all of Mr Ps actual paperwork from the time of the sale. Lloyds has 
provided a copy of Mr Ps completed MPPI application form and direct debit mandate, 
showing it was sold to him on 7 February 2002. However, it has been unable to provide 
documents or say when the mortgage was sold, only that it started in May 2002. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is more likely to 
have happened at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr P that the MPPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to Mr Ps account. Looking at the limited information available, I 
couldnt find any reference to MPPI being a condition of the mortgage. But I can see Mr P 
completed a separate application form and direct debit mandate for the MPPI, which seems 
to indicate the MPPI was sold to Mr P as a separate product to the mortgage. 
In addition, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to see persuasive evidence to 
show that Lloyds didnt give Mr P a choice when it came to the MPPI. Taking into 
consideration the time thats passed and the available paperwork from the time of the sale, I 
cant assume that something went wrong, when theres no persuasive evidence to suggest 
that something did. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint on this basis. 
Lloyds says it recommended the MPPI to Mr P. This means it needed to ensure that the 
policy was right for him. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. He was eligible for cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any 
of the things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr P has said he would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay if he was too ill to work. He has also told us he had savings of more than six months 
pay (but less than twelve months) that he could have used to cover the mortgage 
repayments if he ever fell on hard times. In addition, he has said he had a Mortgage 
Protection Assurance policy. 
Having thought about what Mr P has told us about sick pay, I dont think this means Lloyds 
was wrong to recommend the MPPI to him. I say this because the MPPI would have paid out 
in addition to the sick pay he would have received from his employer and also would have 
paid a benefit if he became unemployed. In addition to this, I can see the policy wouldve 
paid a further benefit amounting to £3 for £1,000 of the opening mortgage balance, which  
Mr P couldve used to cover some of home-related expenses  such as home insurance and 
bills. So I think the MPPI would have been useful to Mr P if he ever became too unwell to 
work or lost his job. 
Ive also thought about what Mr P has said about his savings. While I dont doubt what hes 
told us, I dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been right for him. The MPPI would 
have enabled Mr P to use his savings to cover any other financial commitments he may 
have had at what could be a difficult time. The MPPI also looks like it was affordable for     
Mr P.
In addition, I have thought about the Mortgage Protection Assurance policy Mr P has said he 
took out with Lloyds. These types of policies offer a different type of cover than MPPI and 
generally would only pay out in the event of death or serious illness. As the MPPI would 
have paid out if Mr P lost his job or was unable to work due to any illness, I dont think Lloyds 
was wrong to recommend MPPI to him. And I think he could have found the cover useful if 
he ever fell on hard times. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to him. So I dont think better information would have stopped 
him from taking it out. 
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds recommendation was suitable and I dont think 
that any better information would have put him off buying it. It follows that I dont think the 
MPPI was mis-sold to him. 
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. 
Lloyds didnt respond with anything further for me to consider. However, Mr P responded, 
advising that he doesnt agree with my findings and that they sold him two separate policies 
that effectively covered the same thing. And that if he claimed on one policy, he wouldnt be 
able to claim on the other. So he said it was pointless paying for two when one would cover 
for his circumstances at that time. He says he wouldnt knowingly have both policies running 
at the same time if properly advised.
In addition, Mr P said that while he does not have any documentation or evidence to show 
his policy was mis-sold, he doesnt think this should mean his complaint isnt upheld, as 
Lloyds doesnt have proof to support their position.  Hes also raised concerns about sales 
commission and whether this may have meant his policy was mis-sold. 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
I can see that Mr P has referenced having two policies covering the same thing  Mr P has 
previously said he was sold Mortgage Protection Assurance and MPPI. But as outlined in my 
provisional decision, these policies didnt provide the same type of cover. The Mortgage 
Protection Assurance would pay out an agreed amount in the event of death or terminal 
illness. However, the MPPI would have paid out if Mr P lost his job or was unable to work 
due to any illness. The benefit provided in the event of an MPPI claim would be equal to the 
minimum monthly mortgage payment, the home insurance premium if arranged through 
Cheltenham and Gloucester, and an additional cash benefit equating to £3 for every £1,000 
of the initial mortgage, (subject to a maximum of £1,300). So I dont think Lloyds was wrong 
to recommend MPPI to Mr P. And I think he could have found the cover useful if he was too 
unwell to work or lost his job. 
Mr P has also raised concerns about the fact we havent upheld his complaint, despite there 
being limited information available from the time of sale. Mr P believes the outcome of his 
complaint shouldnt be affected by the fact that he cant provide evidence to show he was 
mis-sold his policy. 
Id like to remind Mr P that my role, as an independent decision maker, is to assess a 
complaint taking into account the available evidence and our general approach to these 
types of complaints  and come to an impartial decision as to whether I think the business 
did anything wrong. It wouldnt be fair or appropriate for me to assume something went 
wrong at the time of sale, when theres no persuasive evidence to suggest anything did. As 
set out in my provisional findings, having considered Mr Ps circumstances at the time of 
sale, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when recommending the MPPI to Mr P. While I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered what hes told us and come to a fair outcome based on what Ive seen.
Finally, I note Mr P has raised concerns about sales commission and that this may have 
resulted in him being sold something he didnt want or need. While I cant possibly comment 
on whether the advisor was earning sales commission as part of his remuneration package, I 
dont see how this would change my findings on this complaint. As stated in my provisional 
findings, Ive considered what happened at the time of sale, taking into account all the 
available evidence and things like the relevant rules, regulations and guidelines applicable at 
the time  and based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the advisor didnt do anything wrong 
when recommending and selling Mr P the MPPI.
For the reasons set out above, Ive reached the same conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. So I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman