DRN-1496469
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined a direct 
debit payment to her credit card supplier.  
What happened
Miss V had a direct debit payment scheduled to her credit card supplier on 
27 November 2019. To ensure her account had sufficient funds to cover the payment, 
Miss V transferred some money to her Halifax account.
The direct debit was returned to Miss Vs account as unpaid due to insufficient funds. This 
surprised Miss V as her banking app account balance had confirmed she had sufficient 
funds to make the payment. 
Miss V made a faster payment to her credit card supplier the following day and complained 
to Halifax about it. She also asked them to explain why her account had been changed from 
a CardCash account to a Reward Current Account, and she raised some concerns about the 
impact the returned direct debit could have on her credit file. 
Halifax responded to confirm that three pending transactions totalling £35.40 had debited her 
account the same day the credit card payment was made. And because Miss V had only 
transferred enough money to cover the credit card direct payment, the pending transactions 
being debited meant there were insufficient funds in the account. They said that pending 
transactions dont show on the account balance on the app but are taken into consideration 
for the available balance. They explained that its up to the retailer when they choose to take 
the debit card transaction, and theyre not always debited the same day the transaction is 
made. Halifax said it was up to Miss V to manage her account and ensure sufficient funds 
were available to cover the pending transactions too.
Halifax explained to Miss V that they werent reporting any negative information on her credit 
file. They said that returned direct debit payments werent reported by them, and she would 
need to speak to her credit card supplier to understand how they might report it. 
With regard to Miss Vs account being changed, Halifax confirmed to her that they had 
informed her of this in April 2019 to her online mailbox. And the mailbox confirmed the email 
had been opened. Because of this, Halifax said that Miss V was aware her account was 
changing and didnt agree with her that she was unaware of this. 
Halifax did offer Miss V £12 to cover any interest or charge she might incur with her credit 
card supplier, but Miss V refused this.
Miss V wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed with Halifaxs explanations.
As Miss V didnt accept this its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be asking Halifax 
to do anything differently. Ill explain why.
Miss Vs complaint has three points. Ill decide on each of them in turn.
Declined direct debit payment
Miss V is unhappy that her banking app didnt consider any pending transactions when she 
checked it. And she feels that Halifax have acknowledged their mistake, as her app now 
does take all pending transactions into account.
Account balances and available balances will differ from time to time, if there are pending 
transactions still to be taken by the retailer. And in Miss Vs case there were three 
transactions pending from recent payments shed made which she didnt consider when 
trying to make sure her account had sufficient funds for her scheduled credit card payment. 
Its a shame that Miss V didnt factor those payments in, as Im sure she was trying to do the 
right thing and ensure all her direct debit payments were met. But I would advise her to 
check both balances in future to avoid any similar occurrences like this. 
I know Miss V feels Halifax have admitted their error by changing the way their banking app 
reflects her account balance. But, while its helpful that this has taken place and it should 
prevent Miss V from having this problem again, I cant say that Halifax have changed it 
because they accept it was wrong. Making things easier to understand for their customers 
doesnt indicate there was an error previously, and I cant agree that there was an error from 
Halifax here.
Credit file
Halifax have confirmed that they dont report returned direct debit payments onto a credit file. 
And theyve shown our service a copy of Miss Vs credit file which shows it has been 
unaffected as a result of this. I cant comment on how Miss Vs credit card supplier might log 
the late payment  she will have to speak to them about this. But I havent seen anything 
from Miss V or Halifax to suggest Miss Vs credit file has been impacted by the direct debit 
being returned. Because of this, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything in relation to this.
Account change                
Halifax sent Miss V a letter to her online mailbox in April 2019 explaining that her account 
would be changing from a CardCash account to a Reward Current Account. The letter also 
outlined the differences in the two accounts and the additional facilities that Miss V would 
now have access to. The letter confirmed the account would change in June 2019.
Halifax have provided a screenshot of Miss Vs online mail folder and the email and letter are 
visible there. The screenshot also shows that the email and letter have been read by Miss V. 
Miss V has said this could have been tapped by accident on her mobile phone and this isnt 
confirmation that shes read the email or letter. That may well be the case, but
Miss V isnt able to evidence that and the only evidence I do have shows the email and letter 
have been opened. Halifax are required to notify Miss V of these changes, which they have 
done. Its then Miss Vs choice whether to read the correspondence or not. But I dont agree 
with her that Halifax havent notified her of her account change. As such, I dont agree that 
Halifax have done anything wrong.
Halifax had previously offered Miss V £12 to help with any charges or interest she might 
have been charged by her credit card supplier for the returned payment. I think this is a reasonable offer. Miss V has previously declined this offer. If she now wants to accept it, she 
will need to speak to Halifax to see if its still available.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. I wont be asking Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman