DRN-2332263
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T complain that A-Plan Holdings (A-Plan) mis-sold them an insurance policy for 
their holiday home.
What happened
Mrs and Mr T own a property that they rent out on a holiday let basis. Theyd previously 
rented it out had as a residential property.
On 14 January 2020 Mrs and Mr T visited their local A-Plan branch to ask it to provide them 
with a holiday home insurance quotation. Theyd previously used A-Plan to arrange 
insurance policies on their behalf. So, they say their requirements should have been well 
known to A-Plan.
During Mrs and Mr Ts visit an A-Plan representative asked them a series of questions and 
completed point of sale documentation recording their answers. They then undertook a 
market appraisal in order to find the most suitable quotation for Mrs and Mr T.
Mrs and Mr T say they told A-Plan their property was being rented out as a holiday let. And 
they said they asked A-Plan to arrange cover on a like-for-like basis to policies theyd held 
previously, which had included legal expenses insurance cover.
Following Mrs and Mr Ts branch visit A-Plan sent them a written quotation from an insurer, 
which Ill refer to here as P. The quotation document provided a summary of the cover 
offered and explained that the cost of their policy was around £290. And it said the policy 
would commence on 2 February 2020. It did not mention any cover for legal expenses.
On 21 January 2020 Mrs and Mr T instructed A-Plan to take out this policy on their behalf 
and a letter was emailed to them the following day, which asked them to check the accuracy 
of the policy that had been arranged.
Also, on 22 January 2020, A-Plan emailed full insurance documents to Mrs and Mr T, which 
included the full policy wording, insurance schedule and product information. Again, Mrs and 
Mr T were prompted to check the policy met their requirements.
Subsequent to taking out this policy Mrs and Mr T needed to obtain legal advice due to a 
neighbour dispute. But they discovered they didnt have legal expenses insurance cover 
included within their policy.
Mrs and Mr T complained to A-Plan that it had mis-sold their insurance policy as they 
believed theyd had legal expenses cover included within their policy. They said A-Plan had 
been aware they required legal expenses insurance cover. And so, it should have made 
clear they didnt have legal expenses insurance cover included with their policy with P at the 
point of sale. They also said theyd experienced a delay in finding out they werent suitably 
insured after trying to make a claim for legal assistance they thought they should have 
been informed sooner that legal expense cover was absent from their policy.
A-Plan investigated Mrs and Mr Ts concerns but it didnt uphold their complaint. It stated it 
had no record of them requesting legal expense cover. And it explained that it doesnt offer a 
suitable legal expense product that would provide legal expense insurance for a holiday let 
property. So, it wouldnt have been able to offer such cover in any event. A-Plan also said 
Mrs and Mr T had had a number of opportunities to satisfy themselves that their policy was 
suitable to their requirements. So, it said it hadnt mis-sold insurance to them.
But while A-Plan didnt think it had done anything wrong in arranging Mrs and Mr Ts policy it 
recognised it should have informed them sooner, after theyd tried to secure legal 
assistance, that they didnt have the benefit of legal expenses cover. And, to recognise this, 
it offered to contribute £250 towards any legal costs they may have incurred in dealing with 
their neighbour dispute.
Being dissatisfied with A-Plans response to their complaint Mrs and Mr T referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what happened and thought A-Plan had provided clear 
information about the policy features in the policy documents it had issued. They also said 
there was no evidence that Mrs and Mr T had instructed A-Plan to arrange a policy of 
insurance which included legal expenses cover. And, overall, they werent persuaded A-Plan 
had mis-sold the policy Mrs and Mr T had purchased. So, they didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. But Mrs and Mr T disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint 
and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr T have sent submissions in response to our investigators view of their 
complaint. I want to assure them Ive read and considered everything that both they and A-
Plan have said when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mrs and Mr T 
have raised as Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope they wont 
take that as a discourtesy, my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can appreciate why Mrs and Mr T might be disappointed with our investigators view of 
their complaint. I recognise they must be worried and distressed due to the problems 
theyve been experiencing with their neighbour. But, while I have sympathy with Mrs and 
Mr T, my role is to assess whether I think A-Plan made a mistake, or treated them 
unfairly, in how it arranged their insurance policy.    
Its clear from what Mrs and Mr T have told A-Plan and our investigator that they believe 
they were mis-sold their insurance policy because they wanted it to include legal 
expenses cover. They say they informed A-Plan of this requirement. But A-Plan says it 
has no record of this.
As A-Plan were asked by Mrs and Mr T to arrange an insurance policy on their behalf 
during a branch visit theres no recording of the conversation that took place. Ive 
therefore carefully considered the point of sale notes made by the A-Plan representative 
during Mrs and Mr Ts branch attendance to see whether theres evidence that they made 
it clear they wanted legal expenses cover.
From the notes that were completed by A-Plan during Mrs and Mr Ts visit I cant see any 
evidence that they requested legal expenses cover as part of their policy. I can see the 
representative that dealt with Mrs and Mr T has recorded a lot of information about their 
policy requirements. And I think, on balance, if Mrs and Mr T had informed A-Plan they 
needed legal expense cover this would have been noted. I also think A-Plan would have informed them it wasnt able to offer legal expenses cover with holiday lets. I therefore 
havent seen enough to persuade me Mrs and Mr T made it clear they wanted this cover 
at the point of sale.
After Mrs and Mr Ts visit to their local A-Plan branch it provided them with a quotation, 
which included a summary of the cover it had proposed. The letter they were sent said to 
proceed, please check, sign and return the attached form. And the documents Mrs and Mr 
T received did not mention legal expenses cover being included within their policy. 
Based on the information sent to Mrs and Mr T I think they ought to have been aware legal 
expenses insurance cover wasnt included. I understand that they instructed A-Plan to take 
out the policy with P on 21 January 2020. This was one week after theyd received their 
quotation. So, Im satisfied they had ample opportunity to consider and check that the cover 
theyd been offered was suitable to their requirements.
After Mrs and Mr T instructed A-Plan to incept their policy with P it emailed their insurance 
documentation, which included the policy wording, insurance product information and 
schedule. The letter A-Plan sent told Mrs and Mr T to check the documents theyd received 
carefully to ensure the policy was suitable to their requirements. And it explained that they 
had a 14 day cooling off period to advise A-Plan if they wished to cancel their policy. 
Again, the correspondence Mrs and Mr T received did not refer to legal expenses insurance 
cover. And Im persuaded this correspondence gave them a further opportunity to check 
their insurance documents to satisfy themselves the cover theyd taken out was adequate.
Mrs and Mr T candidly told A-Plan and our service they didnt check their policy 
documentation due to a bereavement. But, while Im sorry to hear Mrs and Mr T suffered a 
traumatic life event, the onus was on them to check that A-Plan had taken out a policy that 
matched their requirements. If theyd read the documentation theyd received I think its 
likely theyd have noticed legal expenses wasnt included in their policy. They could then 
have exercised their right to cancel this policy without penalty during the cooling off period. 
And they could have taken out more suitable cover elsewhere. I cant fairly hold A-Plan 
responsible for Mrs and Mr Ts failure to read information about their policy. 
I understand that there was a delay of around three months between Mrs and Mr T finding 
out their policy didnt include legal expense cover. As A-Plan does not provide legal 
expenses cover for holiday let properties I think it should have told Mrs and Mr T as soon as 
they made contact to request legal advice. And there doesnt appear to be a valid reason 
why A-Plan couldnt have explained the position promptly. 
A-Plan has recognised that the service it gave Mrs and Mr T here could have been better. 
And its offered to compensate them £250 towards the cost of any legal expenses they may 
incur in dealing with their neighbour dispute. Im satisfied that this amount fairly reflects the 
trouble and upset Mrs and Mr T would have been caused here. Its in line with awards our 
service has made in similar circumstances and its what I would have suggested had no offer 
been made. So, I wont be requiring A-Plan to increase the amount its already offered. 
I realise Mrs and Mr T will be disappointed with my decision  I recognise their strength of 
feeling about their complaint. But, having considered the sales process, and the policy 
documentation Mrs and Mr T were sent, Im satisfied A-Plan provided information in a clear 
and fair way, which showed legal expenses cover was not included in their policy. I therefore 
cant agree that the policy was mis-sold as Mrs and Mr T have suggested.This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mrs and Mr Ts dispute with A-Plan 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help them further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman