DRN-1476947
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with an international transfer.
What happened
Ms S holds an account with Santander. On 28 October 2019 she attended a Santander 
branch in order to send money overseas for her granddaughter. Ms S wanted to send the 
money in Australian Dollars (AUD) and advised Santander that she wanted her 
granddaughter to receive 300 AUD. It informed her shed have to transfer the equivalent of 
£164.52. And it said it would charge a £25 fee to send the money. So, in total £189.62 
debited Ms S' account.
Ms S went ahead with the transfer. But she subsequently received notification from 
Santander that her money had been returned because the beneficiary bank didnt accept 
international transfers. The money was credited back to Ms S' account on 6 November 2019. 
But only £123.82 was returned  so around £41 was missing. 
Ms S wasnt happy the money had been returned. And she was also unhappy it hadnt been 
returned in full. So, on 7 November 2019, she complained to Santander.
Santander issued its final response to Ms S' complaint the same day. In its correspondence 
it told Ms S a lower amount was returned partly due to exchange rate differences. It also 
explained that when making international payments it uses intermediary banks to do so, 
which charge a fee for completing the transaction. So, this had also led to a reduction in the 
amount of money returned to Ms S. 
While Santander didnt uphold Ms S' complaint about what had happened it did credit her 
account with £25 as a gesture of goodwill. It said this was the fee it had taken to send the 
money. But Ms S wasnt happy with Santanders response to her complaint. So, she referred 
it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the information Ms S and Santander had provided. They 
empathised with Ms S, but thought Santander had dealt with this complaint fairly. They also 
didnt think it had made in error in how it had dealt with Ms S' transfer instruction  so it didnt 
need to do anything more. But Ms S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms S has raised some concerns about the adequacy of our investigators 
investigation into her complaint. But Im satisfied our investigator requested all the evidence 
Id have expected them to ask for from Santander. I should also point out that Ive 
considered all of that information afresh before making a final decision. I understand Ms S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But Im not 
going to be able to help her in the way she would like. Ill explain why. 
My role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Ms S unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. I have to look at this complaint impartially and 
while Ive had regard to all Ms S has said, I also have to be fair to Santander too. 
I can see that our investigator has already explained that when Santander sends payments 
abroad it uses a third party bank to do so. That bank charges a fee for that service.
Ms S said Santander didnt tell her any other bank was involved in completing the 
international transfer. She also said Santander didnt tell her the beneficiary bank could take 
funds from her transfer and still not complete it. 
Its clear Ms S feels Santander should have given her more information about third party 
costs and the risks involved in transferring money international. But I can see this 
information is contained in Santanders terms and conditions, which Ms S confirmed she 
would have received. These terms state:
 there may be other third party banks that apply charges in effecting the International 
Payment which may be deducted from the money sent by you or from the money received 
by you via an International Payment. This will mean that the sum of money received by the 
beneficiary or by you may be less than the amount of money you have sent or received. b) If 
any charges are passed back to us by a third party bank, we reserve the right to debit your 
account with these charges. 3.2 International Payment  We shall not be liable for any loss 
you may incur or suffer as a result of any delay or failure in an International Payment 
reaching the bank (or other financial institution) account of the beneficiary of the payment, 
where that delay or failure is a result of .any failure or delay on the part of the bank (or 
other financial institution) to credit the beneficiarys account;or any event or 
circumstance beyond our reasonable control.
I wouldnt expect Santander to be any more specific about those charges in its terms and 
conditions because it wouldnt be able to mention the fees charged by every bank, which 
can, of course, be subject to revision in any event. And, of course, if Ms S wanted to know 
the exact charges her transfer would incur she could have asked Santander prior to making 
her transfer.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly conclude Santander didnt make 
Ms S aware there may be third party costs involved in international transfers or what would 
happen in the event her transfer was unsuccessful. 
Mrs S told our investigator that shes banked with Santander for a very long time. So she 
isnt able to remember all the terms that apply to her account. But, while I understand the 
point she is making here, Santander has still provided the information Ms S needed about 
international transfers. And there is an onus on her to be aware of any terms that may be 
relevant to any transaction she wishes to make.
I know Ms S is unhappy the funds she transferred were returned to her. She disputes the 
reason Santander gave her as to why her transfer was unsuccessful. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded the beneficiary bank returned Ms S' funds because it 
doesnt accept international payments. This isnt a decision that was made by Santander. So 
I cant fairly hold it responsible for the inability of a different bank to accept funds it receives. 
I also think there is an onus on Ms S to have clarified, either directly or via her 
granddaughter, whether the beneficiary bank could accept the money she wanted to 
transfer. When the beneficiary bank returned the money it couldnt accept not all of the 300 AUD that 
had been transferred was returned  62 AUD had been deducted by it. This deduction 
wasnt applied by Santander. So, it isnt something I can fairly hold it responsible for.
The funds that Santander received back were in AUD. So, those funds had to be converted 
by to Sterling in order to credit Ms S' account. At that point the exchange rate Santander 
would use would be different to the exchange rate used when Ms S made her international 
transfer. This isnt unreasonable and it explains the further reduction in the money returned 
to Ms S. 
I recognise Ms S incurred a loss of around £41 from the money she transferred in late 
October 2019. But I cant fairly conclude Santander has acted unfairly here or made an error 
for the reasons outlined above. 
I can see Santander chose to waive its usual £25 international transfer fee here. I think this 
demonstrates it was acting fairly because Ms S provided the beneficiary account information 
and instructed it to proceed with her money transfer. She was correctly charged for the 
service she was asking Santander to provide. It isnt its fault Ms S wasnt able to transfer her 
money successfully. And I wouldnt have told it to waive its fee as part of my decision
I know that Ms S will be disappointed by this decision. But, while I appreciate the reasons 
why she brought this complaint to our service, Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably in dealing with her complaint. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything more. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Ms S' dispute with Santander 
informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Ms S any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman