DRN-3027172
The complaint
  Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc refused to provide support for repairs to 
a faulty car. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The car developed a fault shortly after the point of sale. It was some five years old and had 
covered a little over 60,000 miles so some wear and tear was to be expected. However, Mr 
S, who is a key worker, was able to cover a limited mileage before the fault appeared. 
Santander didnt agree to an independent report and so I have to decide if the car was most 
likely faulty at the point of sale. Given the short time which elapsed and the miles covered 
before the fault occurred I consider it reasonable to conclude that the car was faulty when it 
was acquired by Mr S. 
That being the case the issue is whether Mr S has lost the right to any support from 
Santander due to him not following its procedures. Santander required him to notify it of any 
faults and it says that the selling dealership should have had the opportunity to effect any 
necessary repairs.
The dealer was some 200 miles from Mr Ss home and it is not unreasonable for him to have 
used another garage. However, I think it is important to note that he took it to a main dealer 
which had the requisite expertise to address the fault. It identified a fault with the clutch and 
replaced the master cylinder. However, that wasnt sufficient to remedy the problem and it 
has concluded that the gearbox needs to be stripped to get to the bottom of the issue. 
I think it reasonable to expect Santander to pay for the investigatory work in order to identify 
the problem. Depending on the issue the cost of repair may be covered by the warranty, but 
if that is not the case then I consider the repairs should be covered by Santander. 
Mr S has had limited use of the car and so his enjoyment has been curtailed by the fault so 
he should be recompensed for that also.  
Santander has referred to another complaint which was not upheld due to the correct 
process not being followed. Each complaint is decided on its own merits and in any event 
the facts are not identical.
Putting things right
 Santander should cover the costs of repair as necessary.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
to:
pay for the investigatory works to be completed and subsequent repairs to car 
relating to the clutch/gearbox which arent covered by the warranty
refund the monthly payments from February 2021 to the date the repair is carried out 
to cover any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car because of the inherent quality 
issues;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on these refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman