DRN-2304956
The complaint
Mr D says Novaloans Ltd trading as Cash4unow lent to him irresponsibly. Mr D says he was 
having problems financially when he took the loans. He thinks Cash4unow shouldve found 
out about this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Cash4unow provided to Mr D between December 2016 
and August 2017.
loan 
numberdate taken amountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 12/12/2016 £400 6 25/02/2017
2 11/05/2017 £200 3 27/07/2017
3 04/08/2017 £200 4 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in full. He said that the information Cash4unow 
obtained at the time of sale showed that it was irresponsible to lend due to the number of 
other short term loans Mr D already had.  
Cash4unow disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it looked at Mr Ds bank 
statements and thought that he was generally managing his finances reasonably. It thought 
that the short term lending that was shown on his credit file may have been mistake. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ive explained why below.
As has been established when Mr D started loan 1, the credit reference agency information 
Cash4unow received showed that he already had three outstanding short term loans with a 
value of just under £900. Its reasonable to assume that Mr D would need to repay this in the 
near future. And doing this would take up a very large proportion of Mr Ds declared income 
of £1,700. And the loan from Cash4unow would need to be repaid on top of this. 
And the credit file information Cash4unow obtained also showed that Mr D had a reasonably 
high amount of other debt and he was at the limits of his credit cards. He also had one 
satisfied county court judgement. And before loans 2 and 3 were given there were 
indications he was struggling to make his debt repayments as he had defaulted on some of 
this lending. 
All of this says to me that Mr D was likely to be struggling to keep on top of his finances and 
any further lending was likely to cause problems for Mr D. I dont think it he was likely to be 
able to repay this sustainably given what Cash4unow saw. 
Cash4unow says that it did act on this negative information and requested some bank 
statements. These covered the period 15 November 2016 to 5 December 2016. Firstly, I 
think this is too short a period to conclusively say that Mr D wasnt in financial difficulty. 
And at Mr Ds pay date of 25 November 2016 his bank balance is at just over £1,500. But by 
the 28 November 2016 he is overdrawn. Mr D had declared an expenditure of just of £500 at 
the time these loans were arranged. But this is clearly not the case, he spent far more than 
this over three days. And whilst this evidence is inconclusive it again points to Mr D having 
financial problems rather than the other way around. And so it supports my opinion that 
Cash4unow shouldnt have lent to him. 
So Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about loans 1 to 3.
Putting things right
Cash4unow shouldnt have given Mr D loans 1 to 3.
If Cash4unow has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Cash4unow is not able to buy the debts back then 
Cash4unow should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Cash4unow should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.B) Cash4unow should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cash4unow should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr D having made 
overpayments then Cash4unow should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Cash4unow should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Cash4unow should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D. Cash4unow 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Cash4unow has already written-
off.
E) Cash4unow should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to deduct tax from this interest. Cash4unow 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax Cash4unow has deducted, if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Novaloans Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman