DRN-3321010
The complaint
Ms Z has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unreasonably
refused to consider her claim under the public liability cover in her pet policy.
What happened
Ms Z had insured her dog for several years under this policy. On 28 September 2021 she
called Red Sands to discuss a claim for injuries to a cat caused by her dog. She said this
incident happened over a month previously on 23 August and she would like to be
reimbursed under her public liability section of her policy for any vet fees for this cat.
Red Sands explained the policy excluded such claims, which occurred as a result of the
policyholders pet interacting with other animals or worrying livestock.
Ms Z claimed this was unclear in the policy documentation and buried in the small print, so
she didnt think it was fair. And that she had subsequently paid the vet fees for the cats
injuries in the sum of £1,129.08. Red Sands wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her
complaint to us. The investigator thought it should be upheld. Red Sands didnt agree so Ms
Zs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 February and I said the following:
Ms Z said that in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) that came 
when she renewed her policy in 2020 under What is insured it said the following:
Cover for third party death, injury or property damage as a result of an accident
involving your pet where you are found legally liable.
She said that didnt explain the exclusion Red Sands then relied on to refuse to 
consider her claim. And that consequently it was misleading.
However, at the bottom of the list of what is covered it said, See your policy 
documentation for further details.
In the box headed Are there any restriction on cover? it detailed the excess amount 
for third party liability claims, and explained it wasnt classified as lifetime benefit and 
again told the reader to see the policy documentation for further details.
So, I consider when this incident happened, and Ms Z looked at her paperwork for 
this policy to see if it might cover anything, given her dog had injured this cat, the 
document Ms Z said she looked at, clearly told her quite rightly to also look at the 
policy documentation.
The policy documentation again starts off with the easier to read Policy Summary. 
Under the column What is not Covered? for the Public Liability section, it clearly 
details the following:
Loss or damage to property as a result of your pets interaction with other 
animals or worrying livestock.
Then in the policy document itself under Section 5: Public Liability in 5.3 with the 
heading Exclusions under it says the following:
5.3.2 Any claims 

5.3.2.3 as a result of your pets interaction with other animals or worrying 
livestock.
The IPID is a brief page and half detailing the seven main areas covered by this 
policy. Indeed, merely a page is devoted to detailing the actual cover elements as 
regards whats not covered and the varying restrictions. And very essentially on that 
one page, the reader at each of the three boxes detailing what is insured, what is 
not insured and the details of the cover restrictions is told to see policy 
documentation for further details. Three times on the one page, which I consider is 
very adequate signposting.
Therefore, I consider Red Sands documents were clear, and furthermore repeated
signposted Ms Z to look at the policy document. I dont consider anything was 
misleading for Ms Z because at every turn, she was told to look at her policy 
documentation. The policy documentation comprising the policy summary and policy 
terms and conditions is very clear on the exclusion for the claim Ms Z wanted to 
make.
Red Sands said the policy document was sent to Ms Z when she took out the policy 
and prior to the subsequent policy renewals. Even if Ms Z couldnt find the policy 
document at the time, given the signposting on the IPID, I would have then expected 
her to ask for another copy. Further given the signposting to look at the policy 
document, I dont consider Red Sands IPID caused the reliance Ms Z said it caused 
her. Ms Z also said it was after Red Sands explained the exclusion that she paid the 
cats vet fees, so consequently theres no question that Ms Z wasnt aware her claim 
wouldnt be covered when she paid the cats vet fees either.
And for completeness sake I also dont consider there is anything wrong with Red 
Sands seeking to exclude liability concerning the insured pets interaction with other 
animals, as Red Sands like any insurer, is entitled to decide what it wants to cover 
and what it doesnt as part of its own commercial discretion. Thats not something 
this service has any authority to interfere with either.
Red Sands didnt respond, Ms Z didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said the 
following:
On the issue  cover for third party death, injury or property damage as a result of an 
accident involving your pet where you are found legally liable,  she didnt understand 
what third party death or injury is being referred to if its not other animals. 
She was of the view that the full detail of the limitation is only spelt on in the policy 
proper which she considers is small print and says it differs to that in the policy 
summary.
She said the exclusion is about loss and damage to property. 
She didnt appreciate I said she paid the cats vet fees after she knew Red Sands 
were refusing to cover her claim. She didnt believe that was an admission of guilt. She said her the vet practice were very surprised at the policy exclusion too.
She said this issue has caused her considerable time and trouble and financial 
pressure given the current climate and that she works in the healthcare sector with 
extremely high stress. She expected an insurer to be transparent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again I remain of the view that I am not upholding this complaint. 
First, I consider the reference to third parties in the policy term refers to human beings. 
There are many instances where a sadly an insured pet under this type of policy could have 
caused the death of a person, usually by running out in front of a car, the driver swerving, 
and the car crashing.
Secondly, it remains a fact that the policy summary and the detail in the policy document is 
expressed the same. Further given the signposting to read the policy I dont consider this 
restriction on cover is buried in the small print at all. Thirdly, as regards the reference to 
damage to property, in law pets and farm animals are considered the owners property. 
Therefore, Red Sands use of the word property is legally correct. 
Fourthly, my reference to Ms Z opting to pay the cats vets fees after she was aware Red 
Sands had declined to cover was nothing to any issue of guilt at all. It was merely 
referencing the fact that at the time she incurred this loss, she was aware Red Sands didnt 
consider it was an insured loss. And finally, I cant comment on the opinion of the cats vet 
practice as they are not a party to the contract between Ms Z and Red Sands. 
I fully understand and appreciate how distressing the incident of her dog injuring this cat was 
for Ms Z. And indeed, how tough the last couple of years have been on everyone too. 
However Red Sands had nothing to do with her dog injuring this cat and Im sure that was a 
very unexpected and quite horrific event for Ms Z too. But theres nothing before me to show 
that had Ms Z read her policy fully when she first bought it that she wouldnt have continued 
with it, had she known she had no cover in the event of her dog injuring another animal. So, 
there has been no prejudice to Ms Z because there is no evidence to show me that she 
would have done anything different. Further as detailed above she paid the vet fees for this 
cat, after she was aware of Red Sands stance on the matter. 
Many pet insurance policies have these restrictions for obvious reasons as almost of them 
do not wish to cover losses by such behavioural problems, to include things like worrying 
sheep. So, its fairly standard within the pet insurance industry and therefore not unusual. 
And as I said in the provisional decision, each insurer is entitled to decide what it wants to 
cover and what it doesnt want to cover.
My final decision
So, whilst I appreciate Ms Z is very disappointed, its my final decision that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman