DRN-3377857
The complaint
Ms W and Mr W complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted their account and didnt allow 
access to their funds. Theyd like an explanation and compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Ms W and Mr W had an account with HSBC.
On 13 January 2020 HSBC restricted Ms W and Mr Ws access to their account. On 
28 January 2020 HSBC uninhibited Ms W and Mr Ws account  but they further restricted it 
on 23 March 2020 until 1 April 2020.
 
Mr W complained to HSBC. He explained he sold his house in Australia and transferred the 
funds to his account in the UK. In total £257,000 which he planned to use to purchase a flat 
in the UK  however because of the account restriction he wasnt able to access his funds or 
complete the purchase.
 
HSBC reviewed Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it  they explained they have a statutory 
duty to review consumers accounts, and theyd followed the terms and conditions of the 
account in doing so. And the bank closed Ms W and Mr Ws current and savings account by 
giving 2 months notice on 3 July 2020. 
Mr W wasnt happy with HSBCs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms W and Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They 
explained that HSBC have followed their legal and regulatory obligations and acted fairly in 
restricting access and closing their account. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion. In response he said:
Their account wasnt frozen for a week, but over a month
During the pandemic HSBC should have been fairer with their actions
They might have met their terms and conditions  but they should do whats fair for 
the customer
They didnt contact Mr W to let him know why they restricted their account, and when 
they removed the freeze.  
As Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W and Mr Ws account was restricted on two occasions in early 2020  initially for a 
period of 15 days from 13 January 2020. Then on a second occasion on 23 March 2020 for 
a period of eight days. So I can understand why Mr W felt the account was restricted for over 
a month during this time.  
Ive considered HSBCs actions here  and I appreciate this will disappoint both Ms W and 
Mr W. But, HSBC, and all banks, are entitled to review accounts and suspend them whilst 
doing so. They have broad regulatory obligations that they need to comply with. And this can 
lead to a customers access to their funds being temporally restricted. 
But, HSBC do need to demonstrate theyve carried out any review in timely manner. Ive 
been provided with evidence from HSBC for the actions they took during both restrictions  
and Im satisfied they completed both reviews in a timely manner. I understand that this 
caused Mr W to miss out on a property he was attempting to purchase - however for the 
reasons I explained above I cant say that HSBC werent entitled to take the action they did. 
Mr Ws made some further points that HSBCs actions might have followed their terms and 
conditions  but they should have acted more compassionately during the pandemic. I 
understand Mr Ws argument here. But HSBC still had regulatory responsibilities to comply 
with  and in taking the actions the bank did I cant say they acted unfairly. 
Mr Ws further responded to our investigators view by making an additional point about 
HSBCs lack of transparency in both notifying him of the block and their reasons for doing 
so. Im afraid this will disappoint Mr W, but HSBC arent required to explain their actions to 
him  or notify him of the account being restricted or unblocked. I appreciate this caused him 
inconvenience, but for the reasons Ive explained above I cant say the bank acted unfairly in 
doing so.
Ive also thought about HSBCs actions in closing Ms W and Mr Ws accounts on 
3 July 2020. Our investigator explained that banks are entitled to decide who theyd like to 
contract with, as long as they follow the terms and conditions of the account. The terms of 
Ms W and Mr Ws current account state that the account could be closed for any reason by 
giving 2 months notice  the period Ms W and Mr W were given. I understand Mr W would 
like to know why the bank took this action  but Im afraid HSBC arent under any obligation 
to give a reason. It follows, I cant say they acted unfairly in not doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman