DRN-2719690
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr H has made several complaints relating to this claim which are being dealt with under 
different references at this service.  This decision only relates to the fact the images Mr H 
supplied to AXA were only passed to an engineer to review late in the claim and that he 
disagrees with the decision to hold him at fault for the accident and pay the third partys 
costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
AXA has explained that when Mr H registered the claim, no claim had been received 
from the third party. The images Mr H provided AXA were reviewed by a claim 
handler and added to the file. It was only when the third party presented its costs for 
repairing the damage caused, and Mr H disputed the extent of the damage, that 
these images were looked at more closely by an engineer.
AXA has accepted it could have sent the images to be reviewed by an engineer early 
in the claim and it also accepts that the delay in doing so meant the opportunity to 
obtain other useful evidence was lost. However, it doesnt think this would have 
changed the outcome of the claim. 
Mr Hs policy contains a term which allows AXA to take over and deal with a claim as 
it sees fit. AXA decided as Mr H had admitted he collided with the rear of the third-
party vehicle it wouldnt be able to defend the claim should it go to court. It isnt my 
role to decide who is responsible for an incident, I have however looked at how AXA 
reached its decision on liability and I think it acted reasonably in this instance. 
Ive considered the fact that Mr H has said the images the third party provided were 
dated after the incident and he has questioned the authenticity of the claim for 
damage. I can see Mr H raised these issues with AXA and it asked the third party for 
evidence of the damage caused so it could compare this to the images Mr H had 
provided. I think this was a reasonable action to take.  
AXA referred the matter to a senior engineer who thought the images Mr H supplied 
of his own vehicle showed some slight damage to the front of the car and therefore 
supported the claim by the third party. I realise Mr H disputes this and thinks the 
images only show dirt, however I more persuaded by the opinion of an expert in this 
instance. And, I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on his expert opinion when 
making its decision to make a payment to the third party.
AXA offered Mr H £200 for failing to manage his expectations of how the claim could 
progress. I can see that Mr H was caused a lot of frustration by the claims process 
and had to contact AXA on many occasions to discuss things.  Having reviewed 
everything, I think the amount of compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman