DRN-4282605
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who has voided 
her cover (treated it as though it never existed), following her claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M was a victim of a theft. She made a claim against her policy with RSA. During the 
claims validation process, RSA found that Mrs M hadnt disclosed previous claims. It said 
that Mrs M originally took out the policy on 18 March 2021. She was asked if there had been 
any claims made in the past five years. To which Mrs M disclosed one claim made in 2018. 
RSA said that during its investigations, it found that there had been two claims one made on 
13 November 2016 (not disclosed) and the other made on 29 June 2018 (disclosed). RSA 
said that it would not have offered Mrs M insurance, had it been made aware of both claims. 
So, it voided (treated it as though it never existed) Mrs Ms policy. 
RSA refunded all the premiums Mrs M paid, as they said that the misrepresentation wasnt 
deliberate. 
Mrs M said that she had only not disclosed one claim and not two. She said that she had 
forgotten about the claim in 2016 and it was unfair for RSA to void her policy. RSA issued a 
final response, in which it maintained its position. 
Mrs M was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that Mrs 
Ms policy was voided on the basis of the non-disclosure. And although he sympathised with 
Mrs Ms situation, he couldnt agree that RSA were unreasonable or unfair in its decision to 
void her policy. 
RSA accepted the view, Mrs M did not. She said that the claim in 2016 was so old and over 
five years ago. She felt that RSA ought to have carried out more checks before it accepted 
her as a customer. She felt RSAs actions were questionable. And she said that she hadnt 
received a full refund, as promised. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mrs M. But I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA said that there is an onus on a policyholder to ensure that the information they provide 
is accurate and factually correct. It also said that had it been made fully aware of all of the 
claims, it would not have offered cover. Based on this, RSA said that the misrepresentation 
made by Mrs M, was careless.
Mrs M initially purchased the policy on a price comparison website. During the purchase 
process she was asked whether there had been any claims in the previous five years. Its 
fair to say that Mrs M disclosed the 2018 claim. But she didnt disclose the 2016 claim. 
The relevant date for considering is the date the policy was incepted, which was 18 March 
2021. I accept that Mrs M said she had forgotten about the claim, due to the passage of 
time, but I agree with RSA, that there is an onus on policyholders to ensure that they provide 
accurate and factually correct information. And its clear that the 13 November 2016 claim, 
would have been within the previous five years from the policy inception date. Accordingly, 
Mrs M didnt disclose this claim. 
Mrs M said (and RSA agree) that the claim made in 2018 was disclosed. I have reviewed 
RSAs underwriting criteria and it said that had it been made aware of the two claims (the 
2016 and the 2018 claims) then it would not have offered cover, as it would have deemed 
this too higher risk. Consequently, I think this error made by Mrs M, amounts to a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Ive next looked at the actions RSA can take in accordance with CIDRA and one of the 
remedies allows for it to void Mrs Ms policy. Which lets it not have to deal with her claim 
following the theft. RSA said that as Mrs M failed to disclose the total amount of claims, it 
would not have offered cover. In light of this, I agree that the misrepresentation was 
careless, and Im satisfied that RSA was fair to rely on CIDRA to void Mrs Ms policy.
Finally, Mrs M said that RSA hadnt refunded her full premiums, as it had said it would. I 
asked RSA for its comments, and it said that all the premiums have been refunded in full. 
Taking everything into consideration. I find that the onus was on Mrs M to disclose factually 
correct information as required by the terms of the policy. Which then wouldve allowed RSA 
to make an informed choice as to whether it wouldve wanted to take on the risk. As this 
wasnt done, Im satisfied that RSA provided enough evidence to show there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. And I think it was reasonable to void the policy (treated it as if it 
had never existed). I also think that it was fair to refund all premiums paid since inception of 
the policy. Consequently, there is nothing further I can reasonably ask RSA to do here. My final decision
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has agreed and refunded all the premiums from 
the date of inception to the date the policy was voided. And I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman