DRN-3458695
The complaint
Mr O complains about the actions of HiFX Europe Limited (trading as XE) and believes 
they havent done enough to help him retrieve his funds.
What happened
XE is a money remittance business that also carries out foreign exchange and other 
activities. In October 2020, Mr O used XE to exchange £1,000 into around 1,100 Euros. Mr 
O then requested XE to release those funds to a recipient who lives abroad.
Mr O says the money never reach the recipient and so contacted XE about this in February 
2021. XE requested a trace on the funds.
XE contacted Mr O and explained the payment had been successfully delivered to the 
beneficiary bank and so, asked Mr O to pass on to the recipient some details in order to 
assist the beneficiary bank in locating the funds.
Mr O contacted XE again and asked them to recall the funds. He says the beneficiary bank 
had returned the payment back to them.
XE say they made the requests for a recall through their correspondent bank in March 2021, 
but they say their correspondent banks requests to recall the funds had not received any 
response and that they hadnt received the funds. They say they suggested Mr O contacts 
the beneficiary bank to assist by providing evidence of the return of the funds to help them 
trace it.
Unhappy with XEs response, Mr O referred his complaint to our service. During our 
involvement, Mr O was able to provide further information to show the funds had been 
returned in November 2020. Our investigator said that the evidence provided shows the 
funds were returned, but it didnt show who they were returned to. She also believes XE tried 
to recall Mr Os transaction and tried to locate where the money had gone. And so, she 
couldnt say they had done anything wrong as she believed they had tried what they could to 
resolve the matter for Mr O.
Mr O requested his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. And so it has been passed to 
me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Its clear there is a communication breakdown between XE and the beneficiary bank. What I 
need to understand is whether XE correctly applied their terms and acted fairly in doing so.
It is important to note that XE is not a bank, but a money remittance business. And so, XE 
has partnered with a third-party correspondent bank. The correspondent bank act as an 
intermediary and their agent as it has the necessary business relationships to perform 
banking activities.
The circumstances of the payment, being a transfer in Euros to a country outside of the 
European Economic Area, mean that certain provisions of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 dont apply. This includes regulations dealing with the responsibilities of 
the payer in terms of timely execution and assisting with recovery. However, as a matter of 
good practice I consider it reasonable to expect XE to take steps to ensure that payments 
are executed in line with the instructions they receive, that this is done within a reasonable 
time and that reasonable attempts are made to trace and recover payments as required. 
This includes making sure that its correspondent bank fulfils its side of the transaction. I think 
XE did this and Ill explain why.
XE sent Mr Os payment in October 2020 using the recipient details provided. From what I 
have seen, I think it is likely the funds were sent successfully by XE to the beneficiary bank. 
At that stage, XE has no control over whether the money is applied to the recipients 
account. Responsibility would usually lie with the recipients payment service provider. I 
further note that the terms and conditions of Mr Os arrangements with XE say that they are 
not responsible for any delay or withholding of payments by a bank.
Mr O then requested a recall of this payment. Had this recall been successful, I think this 
matter would have been resolved very quickly without much inconvenience to Mr O. 
However, it wasnt and the funds were not returned to Mr O.
XE has explained to our service that there will usually be a recall request through the SWIFT 
system when they attempt for funds to be returned to them. The SWIFT (Society for 
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) system is a secure messaging system 
that allows banks to instruct each other on payments and accounts that they hold with each 
other. XE say on this occasion they requested a recall through their correspondent bank, 
however it was unsuccessful as the beneficiary bank hadnt responded to the recall requests 
and chasers made.
XE got in touch with Mr O and suggested he contacts the beneficiary bank to assist in 
providing evidence of the return of the funds to help them trace it. I dont think this 
suggestion by XE to be unreasonable, considering the multiple attempts they had made to 
request the recall.
While XE cannot guarantee a recall would be successful, I have looked at whether they have 
acted fairly and appropriately in attempting to assist Mr O.
XE has shown that they requested to recall the funds and then chased this request on 
several occasions. I appreciate this experience must be frustrating for Mr O, but looking at 
things from both sides, its hard to see what more XE could have done. 
It has since come to light that the beneficiary bank has returned the money, but it isnt clear 
from the evidence provided that the money has been returned to the correct correspondent 
bank. Mr O believes XE should do more to help retrieve his missing funds.
On occasions, while Mr O may not think so, I can see XE has done more than what would be 
expected from them. They provided Mr O with proof they had successfully sent the money to 
the recipient and assisted once payment was made to locate it, which wouldnt normally be 
required. And I can see they also tried on multiple occasions to recall the money, and 
understand where the money had been returned, on Mr Os request.In summary, Im satisfied XE did all that it needed to do both in sending the payment, and 
initiating and chasing the recall. I appreciate my outcome will be disappointing to Mr O. 
However, I think XE applied their terms correctly in this instance and acted fairly in trying to 
resolve Mr Os situation. Mr O may want to take some legal advice to recover the funds 
elsewhere, but I dont think XE has done anything wrong in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman