DRN-2537815
The complaint
A (a limited company) complains about the settlement it received from Allianz Insurance Plc 
for a claim it made under its commercial property insurance policy for damage to its shop 
windows. 
What happened
As shop was damaged in January 2020 when someone broke seven windows. A 
immediately reported the claim to Allianz; it told A it was reviewing the claim in order to 
confirm policy liability. It asked A to provide a crime reference number, photographs of the 
damage, an invoice for any boarding up costs, estimates for replacing the windows (two if 
over £1,000) and any CCTV showing the incident occurring in order to assist it in confirming 
liability. 
About three weeks later A sent Allianz some photographs of the damage, the crime 
reference number and two estimates to replace the windows  one for £13,350 + VAT and 
one for £14,875 plus VAT. Allianz replied to say that having received the estimates it was 
going to instruct its own glazing contractor to visit the property and validate the replacement 
glass costs. It told A that its contractor would then provide it with a report to review so it 
could proceed with the claim. 
A replied to Allianz the next day to say that the damaged glass had already been replaced 
using the contractor that had produced the lower of the quotes obtained. Allianzs contractor 
reported that it couldve replaced the glass for £1,338. Allianz told A it would only settle the 
claim up to the amount it wouldve cost its contractor to carry out the repair. 
A complained to Allianz that it wouldnt pay the full repair costs itd incurred. On reviewing 
the invoice, Allianz noted it included the emergency boarding up costs which it agreed to 
cover in full thereby increasing the settlement offered to £6,604. A said it was still unhappy 
that the full cost of replacing the glazing wouldnt be met. 
Allianz looked into As complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said A hadnt 
obtained its consent to proceed so itd not had the opportunity to review the costs and its 
own contractor was able to carry out the repairs for much less. 
A remained unhappy. It said Allianz had agreed to settle a previous claim itd made based on 
the invoices itd produced. Allianz said the settlement costs in that claim were much lower 
and how it settled a previous claim didnt set a precedent for all future claim settlements. It 
said again that itd asked A to send it estimates for the work first. And it pointed to the policy 
terms and conditions where it was stated that policyholders should contact Allianz before 
completing any repairs. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Allianzs investigation, A complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into its complaint but didnt think Allianz had behaved unfairly or 
unreasonably so she didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms set out both parties obligations under the insurance contract in the event of 
a claim being made. It is a condition of the policy that the insured allows the insurer to have 
absolute control of the settlement of any claim and to fully co-operate with the insurer. It is 
also a policy requirement that the insured contact the insurer before any permanent repairs 
are undertaken and that no damaged items are disposed of before the insurer has had a 
chance to inspect them. 
I can see that Allianz asked A to provide it with estimates (two if over £1,000) to replace the 
damaged windows in order to assist it in confirming liability. It also told A that it was 
reviewing the claim to confirm liability. At no time before A arranged to have the windows 
replaced did Allianz confirm liability or authorise A to proceed with replacement. It had asked 
A to provide estimates for it to review in the first instance but before it was able to do so A 
had undertaken the repair.  
Given that it had asked A to provide estimates and hadnt confirmed liability, I dont think it 
was unfair, when A sent the estimates (and invoice for the completed repair), for Allianz to 
review them and to want to send its own contractor out to validate the cost involved. This is 
what it should have had the opportunity to do in the first instance. If Allianz had been able to 
use its own contractor to carry out the repair then it wouldve cost it much less for it to do so 
than the amount charged by As contractor. 
That being the case, Allianz is only obliged to settle the claim up to the amount its own 
contractor would have charged to complete the repair (had it been given the opportunity to 
review the estimates provided and appoint its own contractor). So, I think the settlement 
offered to A by Allianz is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Whilst Allianz may well have settled a previous claim based on As submitted invoice, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for it to say that its doing so set no precedent for the settlement of 
any future claims. And it set out in an email to A at the start of this current claim how it was 
to proceed to validation. 
I can see there was some confusion about the inclusion of the boarding up costs in the 
invoice that led to Allianz initially not including them within the settlement amount offered. 
But I can see it agreed to reimburse in full the amount A had paid out once A pointed the 
matter out. 
Taking all the circumstances into account I cant reasonably require Allianz to do any more 
here. It follows that I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman