DRN-4066117
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund several transactions she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Miss Z noticed that several payments had left her account that she didnt recognise. These 
were to merchants who appeared to sell crypto currency.
Miss Z told Monzo she didnt recognise the transactions and didnt know how they could 
have been made. She confirmed that no one had her login details for her account and she 
hadnt given anyone else access to her card, phone or account.
Monzo looked into the transactions and determined that all the disputed transactions were 
made using access to Miss Zs phone and required additional security steps in order to 
authorise the payments (called 3DS). Monzo declined to refund Miss Z as they didnt think it 
was possible that anyone else could have made them using Miss Zs phone. Monzo also 
decided to close Miss Zs account.
Miss Z was unhappy with Monzos approach and made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. The complaint was looked into by one of 
our investigators who asked both parties for information about the situation.
Miss Z continued to deny she had anything to do with the transactions and Monzo supplied 
details about the payments.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Miss Zs complaint as he 
thought she was likely responsible for the transactions. He also thought the pattern of 
payments wasnt representative of how a thief would utilise a stolen card because funds 
were left in the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Miss Z liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss Z authorised the 
transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the card details for online payments 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Zs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss Z. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss Z responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Miss Z has denied knowing anything about these transactions before they happened while 
Monzo believe the evidence they have shows it could only have been her. 
Miss Z has confirmed she hadnt given any of her security details to anyone else, so it 
seems reasonable to conclude that whoever carried out these transactions wasnt someone 
whod taken her details and phone without her knowledge because it would likely be readily 
apparent to her at the time.
Miss Z also confirmed she hadnt clicked on any suspicious links which would indicate that 
her details werent somehow obtained through some form of social engineering/technical 
attack on her account.
Monzos evidence shows that Miss Zs usual device (phone) was used throughout the period 
when the disputed transactions were taking place. What that means here is that Miss Z was 
active on her Monzo account around the same time the payments were made.
Each of the disputed transactions required an extra step to be made before they were 
authorised and is referred to here as 3DS. This requires the user of the card to complete a 
separate process to ensure the payment is being made by the appropriate card user. These 
steps can take various forms, but often require the user to confirm a message through their 
banking app. The evidence provided by Monzo shows that the 3DS challenge was 
successful on each occasion.
Considering this, it appears it would be unlikely that someone without access to the card 
details and Miss Zs phone could have carried these out. When taking into account the use 
of Miss Zs phone at the time of the disputed transactions, I think it unlikely the activity was 
unrelated to the disputed transactions. For example, a payment was made for £799 on 5 
December 2022 and the 3DS challenge was successfully completed at 23.27 hrs. The 
corresponding log of activity from Miss Zs phone using the Monzo app shows she was using 
it at 23.27 hrs  the same time. 
Ive also thought about the pattern of the payments from the account. They were made in a 
cluster around the same time but then stopped. The account was left with a healthy balance, 
but this wasnt taken, which isnt how an unauthorised third party would tend to act. If a thief 
or fraudster had taken Miss Zs money through some other means, why would they then 
stop? Miss Z didnt notify Monzo for several hours after these transactions, so whoever 
made them could have continued to empty the account.
Taking into account the technical data about the payments, Miss Zs app usage from her 
phone and the patterns of transactions, I think its more likely than not that she was 
responsible for them, and it was reasonable for Monzo to hold her liable for them.
Following Monzos investigation into Miss Zs claim, they decided to close her account and 
gave two months notice. The account was later closed, although I understand there was 
some confusion about the actual date of closure. Looking at the chat conversation, Monzo 
advised Miss Z that it would close in the middle of February 2023 which is when it was 
eventually closed. The terms of the account allow both parties to close it. In most 
circumstances, Monzo are required to provide two months notice which they did here. I dont 
think their decision to close the account was outside the agreed terms, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further regarding the closure.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman