DRN-2105999
The complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy that Mr C took out in 1996 at the same time 
as he applied for a credit card. Its most likely the sale took place in one of the banks 
branches. The policy gave Mr C protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C said  that no conversation took place about the PPI, 
he was completely unaware he had it. There isnt much information to go on in this case, 
because everything happened so long ago. And I dont think its surprising or unreasonable 
Lloyds doesnt have Mr Cs application form any more. However, from what we know about 
how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards at this time I think its likely Lloyds would have made 
Mr C aware he had a choice about PPI. I say this as the sample of the application form hes 
likely to have used shows he would have needed to tick a box to take out PPI. 
I have taken into account Mr Cs comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence, I 
cant fairly conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr C without giving him a choice, and him 
agreeing to take it. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C. This means Lloyds had to make sure it 
was right for him. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. Mr C was entitled to at least six months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
Mr C said he had some savings but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to cover 
other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. So, 
overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr C if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. Mr C has told us he had a medical condition around this time but he hasnt been 
able to give much detail. So as I dont know the date it was diagnosed; how it affected his 
day-to-day life; or if it had ever caused him to take time off work, I cant fairly conclude that it 
was something he would have expected to make a related claim for. This means I cant say 
he has lost out because of not having good enough information on the relevant exclusion. 
Given what we know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies at this time the policy wouldve 
been competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr C was eligible for the policy 
given his circumstances at the time and the policys terms and conditions. So I think it 
unlikely Mr C wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman