DRN-2287536
The complaint
Mr S complains that shortly after hed accepted an offer to reinvest his savings into a fixed 
term bond, the interest rates offered by Paragon Bank Plc on that product were increased. 
He feels hes been disadvantaged by this and that he should be given compensation 
towards the loss of interest or be allowed to switch to the higher rate product. 
What happened
Mr S had a I year fixed term bond with Paragon which was due to mature on 13 August 
2020.  On 16 July he received a letter from the bank setting out the options on maturity, 
which were transferring the funds to another account, reinvesting the funds into another 
savings product, or withdrawal. 
The letter said Your maturity options are covered by our rate guarantee. Once we have 
received your options, if we reduce our rates, youre guaranteed the higher rate youve 
chosen, while if we increase our rates youre automatically upgraded to the higher rate. So, 
youre not losing out by choosing your maturity options early.. 
Mr S chose to reinvest into another 1-year fixed term bond at a rate of 0.75%. He returned 
the form on 28 July and the transfer was put in hand two days later with the new bond 
starting on 13 August.  
However, on 21 August, Paragon increased its rates on 1 yr. accounts by 0.5%. Mr S says, 
as a result of the increase in rates, hes lost about £300 in interest. He feels Paragon should 
have told him about the possible increase at the time. Instead he feels hes been 
disadvantaged by reinvesting early and, as a loyal customer, hed like Paragon to allow him 
to switch to the higher rate bond or for it to make a gesture towards covering part of this loss.
The bank didnt agree. It said interest rates go up and down and thats part of the risk with 
longer term investments. The rate offered to Mr S in July were the best rates at the time and 
staff wouldnt have known at the time they were likely to change. The offer letter gave a 
guarantee against fluctuating rates for the time the offer was open, but this recent change in 
interest rates had happened after the offer had ended and the money reinvested, so it didnt 
apply.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S had agreed to reinvest his funds at the 
rate available in July and Paragon had followed those instructions. Interest rates can vary 
and there was nothing to show that Paragon would have known in July about the changes in 
the interest rates that took place in late August. For that reason, he couldnt agree Paragon 
was being unreasonable in not allowing Mr S to switch to the new higher rate bond. And 
because it hadnt done anything wrong, he couldnt ask it to compensate Mr S for any loss of 
interest.
Mr S agreed the bank hadnt made a mistake but felt, in the circumstances, that it should 
make a goodwill gesture for what had happened. He asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide if the bank has made a mistake in the way it dealt with Mr Ss account 
and if it has, to require it to take the appropriate steps to put matters right. However, having 
reviewed the information in this case I dont think Paragon has made a mistake as Ill now 
explain.
In July 2020 Paragon wrote to Mr S with some options for when his current savings bond 
came to an end in August. Mr S decided to reinvest the funds into another one-year bond 
and this was put in hand at the end of July, with the new bond starting on 13 August at a rate 
of0.75%. Eight days later Paragon increased its interest rates so that the interest on a similar 
one-year bond was now 1.25%, a considerable increase.
I can understand how frustrating this was for Mr S but I cant reasonably say Paragon has 
done anything wrong. The interest rates offered in July were the rates applicable at the time. 
If Mr S was unsure about the way the market was going, then he could have waited until his 
existing bond had matured to see what was available but of course there was always a risk 
that rates might go down and, if so, hed have been worse off than before. 
Ive seen Paragon offered a guarantee against changes in interest rates during the term of 
its offer but in this case the increase occurred after the reinvestment was completed, so it 
didnt apply. 
I appreciate Mr S feels hes worse off because he chose to accept the offer of reinvestment. 
However, interest rates do go up and down, sometimes very rapidly, and theres nothing to 
show that Paragon was aware of the proposed increase at the time it contacted Mr S in July. 
And because its a fixed term bond, both Paragon and Mr S are bound by its terms and 
conditions that dont allow any changes so I cant criticise Paragon for not allowing Mr S to 
switch to the higher rate product. 
I appreciate Mr S feels Paragon should offer him a goodwill gesture towards the difference in 
the interest he will receive compared with what he would have got at the higher rate.  For the 
reasons given, however, I dont agree Paragon has acted unfairly or made a mistake and on 
that basis, I cant reasonably direct it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman