DRN-4020000
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about a second charge loan taken out in August 2007 which is now 
administered by Target Servicing Limited (Target). 
What happened
Mrs W is said to have taken out a series of ten loans with a lender (Lender A) between 
June 2001 and August 2007  some of which were closed before the following loan started 
and some of which were rewritten into the following loan. The only loan which remains 
outstanding is the final loan, taken out in August 2007. This loan was transferred to a 
different lender (Lender B) with effect from 11 June 2018 and Target has been the 
administrator of this loan since then and is dealing with this complaint on behalf of Lender B.
Mrs W says that she took out two loans with Lender A but says that it wasnt her who took 
out the further loans in her name and the signature wasnt hers. Mrs W says that when the 
loans were then sold on to Lender B, it told her that they had been secured against her 
home, which she said she wouldnt have done. Mrs W is unhappy that she is being held 
liable for the loans.
Mrs W has also complained that she sent Lender B a number of letters which it has said it 
didnt receive.
Target says that the complaint about the loans being taken out fraudulently relates to events 
which occurred while the account was owned by Lender A, which has been handling Mrs 
Ws complaint since 2014. In relation to the fraudulent taking out of the loan now owned by 
Lender B and administered by Target, Mrs W complained to Lender B which responded on 
11 April 2019 advising Mrs W that it had passed the complaint on to Lender A as it was 
responsible as the previous owner of the loan. Lender A issued a final response letter to Mrs 
W in relation to this on 12 April 2019 setting out that the concerns had previously been 
responded to in 2014. 
Target referred the issue to its financial crime team who started an investigation but Mrs W 
didnt respond to its letter requesting information or subsequent chaser so the case was 
closed in September 2021 and no further action was taken.
In relation to the letters which had not been received, Target requested further evidence of 
the dates and times the correspondence had been sent. Although Mrs W provided copies of 
the letters, Target said that it was unable to investigate further using these as they did not 
evidence that the letters were issued.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Lender A would be responsible for 
any concerns Mrs W had about the loans prior to 11 June 2018, including the sale of the 
loans. As Lender A had gone into liquidation, our service would no longer be able to look at 
any new complaints against it. 
Our investigator said that she was able to consider whether Target had dealt with Mrs Ws 
concerns fairly. She found that Target asked Mrs W for further documentation to conduct an 
investigation into the fraud allegations and that it had done all it could without being given 
the information it requested. The investigator didnt believe that it was unreasonable for 
Target to say Mrs W still owes the balance of the loan as it hasnt received any evidence 
from Mrs W to show this isnt the case. 
In relation to the letters not being received by Lender B, the investigator found that Target 
contacted Royal Mail to see what had happened in relation to one of the letters which had 
been tracked and found this had not been delivered. She concluded that Target had done all 
it could to investigate the issue and she was unable to hold Target responsible for factors 
beyond its control in relation to the postal service. Overall, the investigator didnt believe 
Target had done anything wrong and did not ask it to do anything further.
Mrs W disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. She says that 
she sent a number of letters to Target but it did not receive them. She also maintains that 
she didnt take out the loan in 2007 or borrow this money.
Why I can only look into part of this complaint
I can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-handling
rules, which are found in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook
(available online).
There appear to be two main aspects to Mrs Ws complaint  the fraudulent taking out of the 
loan and the way Target has managed Mrs Ws account since it took over. I shall address 
these in turn.
Fraudulent taking out of the loan
The starting point is that we can only consider a complaint where the firm complained about 
is responsible for the matters complained of. 
The loan was taken out with Lender A. As set out above, Target (against which this 
complaint is made) is now the administrator for the loan taken out in August 2007 (which is 
the only one of Mrs Ws loans it administers). But it was not administering the loan at the 
time of the sale, and therefore it cannot be responsible for the sale.
For the sake of completeness, I have considered whether Mrs W could make a separate 
complaint against Lender A in relation to the loan being taken out fraudulently. 
I note that Mrs W has already complained to Lender A about this issue in 2014 and it sent 
her a final response letter in relation to this in September 2014. When Target passed Mrs 
Ws complaint about the sale of the loan onto Lender A more recently, Lender A sent Mrs W 
a further response on 12 April 2019 setting out that, if she wished to refer the matter to this 
service, she must do so within six months of the letter. So Mrs W would have had until 12 
October 2019 to refer the matter to this service. However, she did not contact the service 
until October 2021 so it is likely that Mrs W would be out of time to bring any complaint about 
the loan being taken out fraudulently 
In any event, Lender A is now in liquidation so this service is now unable to look at any 
complaints against it (even if Mrs W had brought it to this service in time).
Management of the account by Target
Target has been responsible for administering the loan account since 11 June 2018 so I will 
now go on to consider this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
Mrs W has said that she is unhappy that she is being held liable for the loans. As set out 
above, Target itself wasnt responsible for selling the loans. During its investigation, Lender A was satisfied that the outstanding balance was correct and concluded that Mrs W wasnt a 
victim of fraud in relation to the loan now administered by Target (or any other loans). Lender 
A subsequently sold the loan on to Lender B when Target became the administrator. 
Despite not being responsible for the sale, Target started an investigation into Mrs Ws 
allegations of a fraudulent sale but she didnt provide the information requested so the 
investigation was closed. 
In light of the above, I cant see that Target has done anything wrong when asking Mrs W to 
pay the outstanding balance of the loan as there is no evidence to suggest she isnt 
responsible for this.
In relation to the unreceived letters, Mrs W said that she sent five letters to Target, which 
were not received. Target has said that it only received the letter of 27 May 2021, which was 
the fifth letter sent. 
I can see from Targets file notes that Mrs W contacted it on a number of occasions in the 
early part of 2021 to say that she had sent correspondence in however this had not been 
received. On 31 March 2021, Target advised Mrs W to send the correspondence by 
recorded delivery. Mrs W sent her fourth letter by recorded delivery on 13 April 2021 and 
when she contacted Target with the tracking number, I can see that it looked into this. During 
a call on 19 May 2021 the advisor informed Mrs W that they had checked online and with 
Royal Mail and the document had not been delivered. Mrs W was advised to contact Royal 
Mail in relation to this. She was also advised that as the first three letters hadnt been sent by 
tracked mail, Target was unable to say what had happened to them.
Mrs W made a complaint about this in May 2021 and in June 2021, Target asked Mrs W for 
tracking numbers or further evidence of when the previous letters were sent. 
Mrs B responded in July 2021 sending the tracking number for the letter sent by recorded 
delivery on 27 May 2021, and a further copy of this letter along with the enclosures 
(including the previous letters). Lender B reiterated that it had received the letter dated 27 
May 2021 and said that it was unable to investigate any further using the copies of the letters 
sent as this did not evidence they were issued.
Having considered the evidence, I am satisfied that Target hasnt done anything wrong in 
relation to the letters. It made enquiries in relation to the fourth letter, which showed that it 
hadnt been delivered by Royal Mail. The fifth letter (of 27 May 2021) was received and 
responded to. 
I can appreciate that it was frustrating for Mrs W to send letters which werent received. 
However, as the first three letters were not sent by tracked mail there is no way to confirm 
whether they were sent or received so I cant hold Target responsible for not receiving this 
correspondence. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Target 
Servicing Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman