DRN-3685082
The complaint
Mrs L has complained through her representative, Mr L, that First Complete Ltd trading 
as PRIMIS Mortgage Network cancelled her existing life and critical illness insurance 
policy earlier than it should have done. She thinks that this prevented her from making 
a successful claim for skin cancer under the policy.
What happened
First Completes adviser arranged a life and critical illness policy with an insurer, who Ill 
refer to as R, for Mrs L in January 2019. The application was made jointly with Mr L, but 
each of them took out a separate policy. And First Completes adviser went through the 
application questions with Mr L for both policies. And  after the adviser had submitted 
both applications to R  they sent a letter to Mrs L with a copy of the application, 
including the answers provided to the questions on it. The letter asked her to check the 
answers and let R know if any of them were wrong. It also asked her to let R know if 
any of the answers changed between the date of the application and the date the policy 
was to start. Mrs L didnt contact R and the policy started on 2 February 2019.
The policies for both Mr and Mrs L with R were to replace existing policies with an 
insurer, who Ill refer to as A. According to A the adviser at First Complete cancelled 
Mrs Ls existing policy with them on 31 January 2019 by logging into an online portal.
On 1 February Mrs L saw her GP, which she has said was about an eye problem. 
They also discussed a mole on her leg and her GP referred her to a dermatologist 
about this. Mrs L had the mole removed on 22 February 2019 and was told on 12 
March 2019 that it was skin cancer. She then submitted a claim under her new policy 
with R.
When she discussed her claim with R by telephone Mrs L was asked about how the 
mole was discovered and she said it just appeared after shed had a mole removed 
from the same place five years previously. She said that this was removed and 
checked and was harmless. She went on to say that the mole had, over the last year 
or so, kept gettting bigger and darker and had a different colouration. It is difficult to 
understand from the call recording what Mrs L said next, other than she referred to the 
mole being pink. She then said it had become abnormal looking, so she went to her 
doctor who sent her straight to a dermatologist.
R avoided Mrs Ls policy on the basis she failed to take reasonable care not to 
make misrepresentations when applying for it. In doing so, it relied on the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
They said the first misrepresentation was because the following question on 
Mrs Ls application form had been answered incorrectly:
APART FROM ANYTHING YOU HAVE ALREADY TOLD US ABOUT, DURING 
THE LAST 5 YEARS HAVE YOU HAD, OR DO YOU CURRENTLY HAVE, ANY 
OF THE FOLLOWING:
A tumour, lump, cyst, polyp, growth or any mole/naevus that has bled, 
changed in appearance or become painful.
This question was answered No.
R said the second misrepresentation was because the following question was 
answered No and Mrs R didnt tell them that shed been referred to a specialist 
before the policy started.
APART FROM ANYTHING YOU HAVE ALREADY TOLD US ABOUT, IN 
THE LAST 3 YEARS, HAVE YOU
Been referred to a specialist or had or been advised to have any investigations?
Rs view in this regard was based on the fact that the evidence suggested the mole on 
Mrs Ls leg had been changing and that she was referred to a specialist about it on 1 
February 2019. They also pointed out that Mrs L had received a letter with a copy of 
their application on 21 January 2019 asking her to check the answers on her application 
to make sure they were correct. The letter also said it was important she let R know if 
any of the answers to the questions on the application form changed between the date 
they completed them and the date their cover began.
Mrs L was also sent a letter on 3 February 2019, after the policy had started, enclosing 
a form for her to sign to confirm she was happy with the policy. This letter also said if 
there had been any changes to any of the answers given in her application, and she 
didnt tell R, it could mean they wouldnt pay a claim.
It is not clear whether Mrs L actually signed and returned this form. But, it is clear 
she didnt tell R about her referral to a specialist on 1 February, despite this 
happening before her policy with them started.
Mr L eventually complained on Mrs Ls behalf about the fact First Completes adviser 
had cancelled her policy with A earlier than he should have done, leaving her with a gap 
in cover. He said that if the adviser had cancelled it at close of business on 1 February 
Mrs L could have made a successful claim under it for her skin cancer. He thought First 
Complete should pay what Mrs L would have received if shed been able to do this.
First Complete rejected Mrs Ls complaint. It said that if shed answered the 
abovementioned question about moles correctly when making her application to R, 
the application would have been postponed and eventually not gone ahead. And this 
would have meant the policy with A would have remained in place. It said  in view of 
this - it was Mrs Ls fault she wasnt able to make a claim under the policy with A. It 
also said Mrs L was advised her policy with A had been cancelled and that she could 
have contacted them to reinstate it when she was referred to a specialist.
Mr L asked us to consider Mrs Ls complaint about First Complete. One of our 
Investigators did this. He established that if First Completes adviser had cancelled 
Mrs Ls policy with A on 1 February it would have run until 28 February. He also 
established Mrs L could have made a successful claim under it, as A would have 
taken the date her mole was biopsied as the date of diagnosis for skin cancer. He 
also established with A that the mole met the criteria for a successful skin cancer 
claim under the policy Mrs A had with them. I later established that A would have paid 
£71,923.14 in settlement of the claim, as the critical illness sum insured had 
decreased gradually over the term of the policy. Our Investigator explained that he 
thought First Complete should pay what Mrs L would have received if she could have made a successful claim under her policy with A.
First Complete didnt agree with our Investigators view and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. It still thought it was Mrs Ls fault her policy with A wasnt in 
force at the point she needed it to be for a successful claim. It also pointed out that 
Mrs L was advised by letter that her policy had been cancelled with effect from 31 
January 2019 and if she wasnt happy about this she could have contacted A and 
asked for it to be reinstated.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2022 in which I set out why Id provisionally 
decided First Complete should pay Mrs L what shed have recieved in settlement of 
her claim for skin cancer if their adviser had processed the cancellation of her policy 
with A at the earliest on 1 February 2019. And  if as a result of this - it had still been 
in force on 22 February 2019, when Mrs Ls mole was removed and sent for biopsy.
The amount I suggested First Complete should pay was £71,923.14, plus interest. 
This was on the basis that I thought the adviser had made an error in processing the 
cancellation of the AIG policy on 31 January 2019 without checking what impact this 
would have. I said that, if hed checked, as I think he should have done, he would 
have found out this would mean the policy would be cancelled on this date, as 
opposed to 28 February if hed processed the cancellation a day or two later. And 
because he himself had advised Mrs L not to cancel her existing policy until her new 
policy had started, he would then have not processed the cancellation of her policy 
with A until 1 or 2 February 2019, meaning it would still have been in place on 22 
February 2019 and Mrs L could have made a successful claim under it.
I gave both parties until 23 June 2022 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr L came back to say Mrs L agreed with my provisional decision and that they had 
nothing further to add.
First Compete came back with a lengthy submission. In essence, this stated that, 
although it accepted its adviser should have checked when Mrs As policy with A 
would end if he processed the cancellation on 31 January 2019, he would not have 
actually needed to cancel it at all if Mrs L had correctly answered the question about 
growths or moles in her application to R; and let them know that shed been referred 
to a specialist before her new policy with R actually started.
After I received First Completes submission, I decided to speak with its casehandler. 
This was because I wanted to understand her views on the case better. I also felt this 
was appropriate because Id spoken to both Mr and Mrs L and had not - until this 
point - spoken to anyone at First Complete.
So, I spoke at some length to First Completes casehandler. She reiterated the 
views shed set out in her response to my provisional decision. This led me to 
reconsider Mrs Ls complaint and obtain a recording of her telephone conversation 
with R about her claim at the outset.
As Ive already mentioned, in this telephone conversation, when she was asked 
about the mole that resulted in her claim she told the claim handler that over the last 
year or so it had just kept getting bigger and darker and different in colouration. This 
suggested to me Mrs L did realise the mole had changed and that she should have 
realised when she checked it that the answer to the question on her application to R 
about moles etc had been answered incorrectly by Mr L. It was also of concern to me 
that the conversation suggested Mrs L had gone to her GP about the mole and not 
about an eye condition as shed suggested.I sent the recording to Mr L and asked him to provide his and Mrs Ls comments. I 
also sent it to First Complete for it to comment.
I appreciate listening back to the call was traumatic and stressful for Mrs L, but I felt 
it was important to get her comments on it, as I didnt think what she said in it really 
supported the version of events shed provided when Mr L made the complaint to 
First Complete.
Mr L explained that Mrs L was talking about details and descriptions in the call that 
she had picked up about the mole after her visit to her GP. And that she was 
overwhelmed during the call due to the distressing time shed had leading up to it. 
Hes added that after saying the mole had just appeared Mrs L used language that 
shed been hearing repeatedly from the medical professionals treating her. Mr L has 
said her reactive answer was that the mole just appeared. He has said that  despite 
saying in the call the mole had kept getting bigger Mrs L is adamant that to the naked 
eye there was nothing concerning about the mole. And that, in saying it had just kept 
getting bigger, she was once again repeating what shed heard from medical 
professionals. Mrs L also maintains she did go to her GP with an eye complaint. And 
neither Mr or Mrs L think the question about moles was answered incorrectly on the 
application form for Mrs Ls policy with R.
First Complete  on the other hand  said it thinks the call backs up its view that Mrs 
L answered this question incorrectly and that it was this that led to her not being able 
to make a successful claim, as opposed to the error by its adviser in cancelling her 
existing policy with A before the policy with R had actually started. It also added that 
the reference in the call to having a previous mole removed shows Mrs L had also 
answered questions incorrectly in her application to A in 2017 and in a previous 
application to another insurer in 2014.
It also said the incorrect answers to these questions and the question about moles 
in 2019 may have influenced the advisers decision to recommend new policies for 
Mrs L. It pointed out that the manual the adviser at First Complete had to follow 
when recommending replacement products said he should take particular care 
where there had been a change in the health circumstances of the customer since 
they took out the original product.
I issued a second provisional decision on 16 August 2022 and I set out what Id 
provisionally decided as follows:
Whilst I fully appreciate Mrs L was going through a very difficult time when she spoke to 
the claim handler at R. And I understand Mr Ls comments about the context of the call 
and the amount of information Mrs L had heard from medical professionals, Im not 
persuaded that she didnt have at least some awareness that the mole had changed in the 
period leading up to her visit to the GP and mentioned it because of this. Her GP notes do 
support her contention she went to see her GP about an eye problem, but I think what she 
said in the call to the claim handler suggests she had at least some concerns about the 
mole at this time.
It is also clear that questions on the application forms for the policies she took out in 
2014 and 2017 in relation to medical investigations, referrals and procedures, as well 
as the questions about moles, were answered incorrectly. I dont think these would 
have had any bearing on the applications themselves, as the mole Mrs L had removed 
in 2014 was harmless.As the change was minor in Mrs Ls case and of no real consequence, Im not 
persuaded this would have stopped the adviser continuing with the policies in 2014 and 
2017, but it does show a certain amount of carelessness on Mrs Ls part when 
completing and/or checking applications for policies she was taking out. And it supports 
the view that she and Mr L on her behalf failed to take reasonable care when taking out 
the policy with R in 2019.
Ive given further consideration to what part the two parties to this complaint played in Mrs 
L not being able to make a successful claim after she was diagnosed with skin cancer in 
2019.
Despite what Mr L has said, I still think he failed to answer the question about moles on 
the application form for Mrs Ls policy with R correctly. And I think Mrs L failed to correct 
this when she was asked to check the answers that had been recorded. I think the 
answer to this question was wrong for two reasons. Firstly, Mrs L had had a mole that 
had changed in 2014 and this had been removed, ie in the last five years. Mrs L also 
failed to tell R that shed been referred to a specialist just before her policy started, 
despite being warned in a letter by R she needed to let them know if any of the answers 
in the application changed in this period.
Mrs L had also failed to answer questions correctly on two previous applications 
concerning moles and treatment shed received, although  as Ive said- I am not 
persuaded these would have made any difference to First Completes advisers decision 
to recommend new policies for her in 2014 and 2017. This is because the mole that was 
removed in 2014 was harmless and so not really a change in Mrs Ls health. Although, I 
do accept if the question regarding moles had been answered correctly in 2019, it would 
probably have stopped him recommending a new policy at this time. Also, they do  in 
my opinion  show a lack of awareness on Mr and Mrs Ls part of the importance of 
making sure the answers provided to medical questions when applying for policies are 
correct.
And it is clear that if the question regarding moles had been answered correctly in Mrs Ls 
application to R in 2019 the policy wouldnt have gone ahead. This is because R would 
have deferred the application until the results of the investigation by a specialist were 
available. It is also clear if Mrs L had told R shed been referred to a specialist on 1 
February 2019 they would again have deferred the policy pending the results. And it is 
also clear that at this point Mrs L's policy with A could have been reinstated.
So, I think it is fair to say Mrs L was at least partly to blame for the fact her policy with 
A wasnt in place at the point she saw a specialist about what turned out to be skin 
cancer. And, as Ive mentioned previously, if it was still in place at this time she could 
have made a successful claim under it.
However, it is also clear that First Completes adviser is partly to blame for the fact Mrs 
Rs policy with A wasnt in place when she saw the specialist. This is because, as I have 
also previously explained, he failed to check what would happen if he cancelled it on 31 
January 2019. And he wrongly assumed it wouldnt end until Mrs Ls policy with R had 
started ie, there wouldnt be a break in cover, as per his own advice to Mr and Mrs L that 
this should not be allowed to happen. And, if he had checked and correctly established 
he should wait and cancel Mrs Ls policy on 1 or 2 February, it is clear that it would have 
continued until 28 February and Mrs L could have made a successful claim under it for 
skin cancer and received £71,923.14.
So, having reflected on what First Complete has said in response to my provisional 
decision, listened to a recording of Mrs Ls telephone conversation with the claim handler at R. And, having reconsidered what  in my opinion  was a failure on Mrs Ls part to 
make sure the answer to an important question on her application form to R was correct, 
as well as failing to inform them of her referral to a specialist before her policy with them 
started, I no longer think it would be fair and reasonable to make First Complete pay Mrs 
L the full amount she would have received if her policy with A had still been in force on 
22 February 2019. 
So, bearing in mind, I consider Mrs R was partly to blame for the fact her policy with A 
wasnt still in place on 22 February 2019; but considering First Completes adviser was 
also partly to blame, I think First complete should only have to pay Mrs L 50% of what 
she would have received if she had made a successful claim, ie, £35,961.57. And I dont 
think its appropriate for me to make First Complete add interest to this amount. This is 
also because of the part Mrs Ls carelessness played in her not being able to claim under 
her policy with R.
I gave both parties until 30 August 2022 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr L has said Mrs L accepts what Ive provisionally decided. 
First Complete has said, in summary:
It doesnt think my version of events acknowledges the importance of the fact that 
Mr L was always under the impression he did not have to disclose anything to 
anyone until the date of diagnosis. It believes this was the catalyst for the non-
disclosure by Mr L in 2019 and therefore forms part of the audit trail and decision, 
just as much as the non-disclosure does and must be considered equally. 
Its pointed out that Mr L had reiterated to it several times his belief that there 
was no need to disclose anything until a diagnosis was made. It has said that 
had Mr L not made this incorrect assumption its fair to say the whole scenario 
would not have happened. And it doesnt feel Ive attached enough weight or 
importance to this. Its pointed out that Mr and Mrs L have never provided any 
evidence to show that the adviser gave Mr L this impression. 
It has gone on to say that the fact Mr and Mrs L missed opportunities to disclose 
the changes to the mole on Mrs Ls leg time and time again shows he had a 
mistaken belief that they didnt need to disclose anything until there was a 
definite diagnosis. It thinks this is backed up by the fact that they even did 
nothing when Mrs L got a letter from AIG saying the policy had been cancelled 
after shed seen her GP and been referred for her mole, despite having the 
chance to reinstate it at this point. 
Its pointed out that in the call in which Mrs L discussed her claim with R, its 
clear the appointment she made with her doctor on 1 February was for the mole 
on her leg, as opposed to being for an eye condition as shes suggested. And 
therefore it is not disputed that this condition started when Mrs Ls policy with A 
was still in place. It doesnt think she was confused on this call. 
It doesnt think Ive taken into account the fact that by the time Mrs L received 
the policy documentation from R she knew shed been referred to a specialist 
for the mole on her leg, but didnt inform R. And the fact that Mrs L simply failed 
to realise she needed to let R know is not commensurate with the evidence 
provided. It has also pointed out that it was not its advisers fault that Mr L held an 
incorrect view and it thinks I should take into consideration the fact that Mrs L 
had the chance to alieviate the situation by disclosing the fact she had a mole 
that had changed and had been referred to a specialist about it. And it believes 
it is the incorrect assumption by Mr L that he and Mrs L didnt need to disclose 
these things that drove the rest of his actions. And it was this that was the actual 
cause of the situation Mr L found herself in with regards to her claim. 
It thinks my suggestion it should pay £35,961.57 doesnt take into consideration 
this incorrect assumption by Mr L. It has pointed out that it is this that was the 
begining of what happened and Mr and Mrs L are wholly responsible for the 
position they are now in, where Mrs L has no critical illness cover in place with A 
or R. 
In summary, it thinks an incorrect assumption by Mr L is the cause of the situation 
Mrs L finds herself in and not the actions of its adviser, which it far outweighs. In 
other words, it thinks it was Mr and Mrs Ls failure to disclose changes to the mole 
on her leg that set its adviser on a different path than he would have taken if Mr L 
had disclosed it. And it believes this should hold far more weight than the action on 
the part of its adviser and must be viewed as the cause from the outset.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what First Complete has said, but I still think what I provisionally decided in my 
second provisional decision is the fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs Ls complaint. 
I dont agree Mr L assumed he and Mrs L didnt need to disclose things without a definite 
diagnosis. His references to not taking action until Mrs L had a diagnosis of skin cancer were 
when he was explaining why they didnt claim earlier and why they didnt ask for the AIG 
policy to be reinstated. It remains my view that the reason Mr L didnt disclose the changes 
to the mole on her leg was a failure on his part, on behalf of Mrs L, to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation. And, the reason Mrs L didnt correct this error when she 
received a copy of the answers to the application questions and when she received the 
policy documentation was also due to a failure on her part to take reasonable care i.e. she 
didnt pay enough attention to the documentation she received. 
I agree the telephone conversation Mrs L had with R about her claim does suggest she 
made the appointment with her GP because of the mole on her leg and not because of an 
eye condition. Although her GP notes do suggest otherwise. It also suggests that she knew 
the mole had changed before she saw her GP. And this is why I explained in my second 
provisional decision that I thought this call backed up my view that there was a clear failure 
on Mr and Mrs Ls parts to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations. This 
remains my view.
I appreciate that First Complete thinks that Mr and Mrs Ls failures to take reasonable care 
led to their adviser suggesting a new policy, which he never would have recommended if Mr 
L had answered the question about moles correctly or if Mrs L had corrected the answer Mr 
L had provided when she was asked to check it.  And I also accept if Mrs L had told R about 
the changes to her mole and the referral to a specialist after her policy had started, her 
policy with R would have ended and her policy with A could have been reinstated. And this 
means Mr and Mrs L missed three clear opportunities to disclose information. But this does 
not alter the fact First Completes adviser also made a significant error, going against his own advice in doing so, which also led directly to Mrs L not being able to claim under her 
policy with A for the reasons set out in my two provisional decisions. This means I think 
equal weight should be given to the advisers failing as to Mr and Mrs Ls failings. 
In saying this, I understand Mr and Mrs Ls failings started a chain of events leading to First 
Completes adviser cancelling their policy with A. But he made a clear mistake and cancelled 
it too early unnecessarily and left a gap in cover, despite warning Mrs L to make sure there 
was no such gap. And this prevented Mrs L from being able to make a claim as a result of 
her diagnosis of skin cancer in March 2019. And this is the reason why I think First Complete 
must pay 50% of what Mrs L would have received if she had been able to make this claim. 
Putting things right
It remains my view  as set out in my second provisional decision, that the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mrs Ls complaint is for First Complete to pay her 50% of what shed 
have received if shed been able to claim under her policy with A if it was still in force until 
the end of February 2019; which would have been the case if its adviser had not cancelled it 
too early in error on 31 January 2019. 50% of the amount she would have received is 
£35,961.57.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my second provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint about First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network and I order 
them to pay her £35,961.57.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman