DRN-3397098
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that MBNA Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs B opened a credit card account with MBNA in November 2014. Her credit limit was 
initially £7,700. MBNA increased Mrs Bs credit limit in February 2016 to £12,700 and 
increased it again at Mrs Bs request in June 2017 by a further £1,000 to £13,700.  A further 
credit limit increase by Mrs B was declined.
 
Mrs B says that MBNA acted irresponsibly by providing her with the credit card and when it 
increased her limit. She says she was struggling financially and adequate credit checks 
would have revealed this. She says she was only ever making minimum repayments so it 
should have been clear she wouldnt be able to pay her debt off in a sustainable way. 
MBNA says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mrs B and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mrs B  and when it increased her credit limit. 
Our investigator thought that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld from the point at which her 
credit limit was increased to £13,7000 in June 2017. They thought that there were 
indications in Mrs Bs external borrowing which suggested the credit was not affordable. 
MBNA disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of any 
financial strain. Neither party disputed the investigators view on the opening of the account 
and the first credit limit increase. 
As MBNA disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mrs Bs complaint.
MBNA needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that MBNA should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs B. These factors include things 
like understanding Mrs Bs income, the total amount Mrs B borrowed, and the length of time 
Mrs B had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
As both parties agreed with the investigators position on the opening of the account and the 
first credit limit increase I will not address these in detail here, suffice to say that I agree with 
the investigators view. On the information available to MBNA, including information provided 
by Mrs B about her income and her household income and information obtained from 
external credit checks there is no reason to suggest that the lending would be unaffordable 
for Mrs B.
 
However, things were rather different in June 2017 when Mrs B asked for a further credit 
limit increase. The credit limit increase was small in comparison to that previously given.
The credit check information available to MBNA at this time showed that in the preceding 16 
months (which directly followed the increase in February 2016) Mrs B had increased her 
overall available credit facility by over £17,000 and had external borrowing of £18,650. Her 
credit limits had increased to over £42,000 and her external debt had increased by over 
£12,000. 
MBNA says that Mrs B told it that her income had increased to around £30,000 when she 
made this application. It says that this means she had enough disposable income to make all 
her repayments comfortably.
 
I dont think MBNA should have relied on Mrs Bs self-report given the substantial increase in 
her debt elsewhere and available credit. I think it would have been reasonable at this point 
for MBNA to ask for evidence of her income and expenditure  especially as Mrs B had 
proactively asked for the increase when it appeared she had available credit elsewhere.
 
Looking at Mrs Bs bank statements from around that time it is apparent that her income was 
lower than that she declared. Given Mrs Bs stated occupation I think its possible she may 
have inflated her income in her declarations on application, because her bank statements 
never reflected the level of income she should have had on the salary declared and she has 
latterly explained that her income was actually £19,000. It is possible she included payments 
from her husband into their joint account for joint expenses in her declaration, but if this was 
the case I would have expected her to declare a much higher income. I think if MBNA had 
asked for evidence of Mrs Bs income it would have realised that Mrs B now had significantly 
greater external debt than her real income could sustainably repay. I think MBNA did not act 
responsibly or fairly by approving the credit limit increase in June 2017 and Mrs B lost out as 
a result. 
Putting things right
As I dont think MBNA should have increased Mrs Bs credit limit from £12,700, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mrs B has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think she 
should pay this back. Therefore, MBNA should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £12,700.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs B alongwith 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £12,700, MBNA should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B for the remaining amount. 
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file where it was directly caused 
by the credit limit being increased in June 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct MBNA to put things right in the way Ive 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman