DRN-3711820
The complaint
Mr J Trading as M complains that Starling Bank Limited blocked and closed his business 
account. He would like compensation. 
What happened
M had a business account with Starling. Mr J received payments into the account from a 
customer. The account was subsequently blocked on 25 March 2021. Starling asked Mr J to 
provide information to them regarding the proof of entitlement to funds paid into the account.
Starlings review of the account took six weeks and the account remained blocked during 
that time. 
Mr J said this had affected him financially as he wasnt able to carry out his business without 
an operational bank account. He was unable to pay his bills and he lost out on a job.
Mr J provided some information to Starling, but Starling requested further clarification.
Starling gave M seven days notice to close the account. Mr J withdrew the funds from the 
account and the account closed on 8 May 2021.
Mr J was unhappy with the time it took Starling to review the account, so he complained to 
our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. They said Starling had acted 
fairly when reviewing the account and they were entitled to close the account.
Mr J was unhappy with the view. He said Starling had put him in financial difficulties and he 
had lost his home because he couldnt keep up with his rent payments. Mr J thought Starling 
didnt keep him informed and they didnt give him a reason for the closure. He wasnt able to 
buy materials because of the block on the account so it really affected his business.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Starling were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Ms account. 
Starling asked Mr J to provide information to them regarding the origin of the funds paid into 
the account. Mr J originally mentioned the funds were from family members. He later 
explained that the funds came from payment for a job he had done. Whilst Starling waited for 
the information to be provided and the review to be completed, I would have expected them 
to block the account. The terms and conditions of the account allow them to do so. Starling 
gave M seven days notice to close the account. Mr J withdrew the funds in the account and 
the account closed.
Ive considered whether Starling acted fairly in closing Ms account. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account with less notice. In this case Starling gave M 
seven days notice. Having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the 
bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the account as its already 
done. 
Mr J has said he was unhappy with the time it took Starling to review the account. So, Ive 
gone on to consider if Starling caused any unnecessary delays whilst it reviewed Ms 
account. Ive looked at the evidence provided to me, and Im satisfied the bank carried out its 
review in a timely manner.
Mr J has mentioned the effect the block had on his business and his personal life. I 
appreciate that Mr J feels strongly about this, and I dont doubt that things were very difficult 
for him. Ive already said that Starling have done nothing wrong when it blocked and closed 
Ms account so I cant ask them to compensate Mr J for the difficulties he had during this 
time.
Mr J has said that Starling didnt keep Mr J informed and Mr J didnt know what was 
happening on the account. I have looked at the communication between Mr J and Starling 
during the time. Im satisfied Starling kept Mr J informed, although I appreciate he wasnt told 
how long the review would take or the reason for the review and block of his account. 
I understand that Mr J wants Starling to explain the reason it applied the block to his account 
and subsequently closed it.  But Starling doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr J the reasons behind the 
account block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving Mr J this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Having said that, I can see that Starling did set out their concerns to Mr J about the payment 
he had received into the account. And based on Mr Js submissions, Im satisfied its more 
likely than not that Mr J understood why Starling restricted his account. 
In summary looking at the information before me Im satisfied that Starling were acting fairly 
when they reviewed, blocked and closed Ms account and I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman