DRN-4130598
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their residential 
landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Ms B had a landlords insurance policy that was under written by AXA. In 
December 2022 they made a claim after a water leak at the property. AXA assessed the 
claim but declined it. It said the policy stated that cover wouldnt apply where a property is 
unoccupied for more than 45 days, and Mr B and Ms Bs last tenants had moved out in 
September 2022.
Mr B and Ms B didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. They said theyd been given 
misleading information about the policy as documentation theyd had at renewal said the 
requirement was that the property wasnt unoccupied for more than 60 days rather than 45. 
And they said during the time it didnt have tenants contractors had been attending the 
property regularly, so it hadnt been unoccupied. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint, although it accepted that the renewal documentation was 
unclear and offered £25 compensation to apologise for that. Unhappy with this, Mr B and Ms 
B brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said that while the renewal made the unoccupancy requirement unclear, the claim would be 
declined even if the 60 day unoccupancy endorsement was applied, so she thought AXA 
had acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mr B and Ms B didnt agree. They said that the renewal documents gave them the 
impression the policy allowed the property to be unoccupied for 60 days and was therefore 
mis-sold. They said if theyd known the actual policy term then they would have had the 
opportunity to shop around and could have avoided the claim decline altogether. They asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators outcome, Ill explain why.
Mr B and Ms Bs tenants vacated the property in mid-September and at the time of the claim 
in December 2022, it remained unoccupied. This means it was unoccupied for around 90 
days.
The actual policy term requires the property to not remain unoccupied for more than 45 
days. However Mr B and Ms B received conflicting information about the policy, that gave 
them the impression that it was 60 days. 
But regardless of whether they thought unoccupancy had to be 45 or 60 days, their claim 
would still have fairly been declined because it was unoccupied for longer than both of these. 
Mr B and Ms B thought the policy contained a clause allowing 60 days and accepted the 
policy on this basis. Yet the property remained unoccupied for 90 days. So they should have 
known that any claims arising wouldnt be covered due to this, even if their understanding of 
the policy terms was incorrect.
I note theyve said they didnt consider the property to be unoccupied as trades people were 
regularly attending to get work completed. However having trades people visit the property 
isnt the same as it being occupied in the day and overnight by a tenant. And I dont consider 
this to be a reasonable interpretation of the definition of occupied.
Finally, Mr B and Ms B have said they consider the policy to have been mis-sold because 
they were led to believe the unoccupancy could be up to 60 days. Ive explained why I dont 
think this impacts AXAs decision to decline the claim. However the sale of the policy was 
through an intermediary, so if Mr B and Ms B have concerns about how this was handled, 
this will need to be as part of a complaint against the broker rather than AXA. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman