DRN-3424751
The complaint
Ms S complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined her claim on her 
ten-year buildings warranty.
What happened
Ms S bought a new home that came with a ten-year warranty, provided by NHBC. This was 
due to expire in December 2015.
In July 2015 Ms S called NHBC to enquire about a claim. And on 6 December she sent an 
email with the full claim details.
NHBC responded to say that the warranty had expired on 5 December, so the claim had 
been made outside of warranty cover and therefore wouldnt be accepted. Ms S 
subsequently complained but NHBC maintained its position. 
Unhappy with this, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
NHBC had treated Ms S fairly by not accepting the claim. As she said Ms S had made her 
intention to claim clear in the phone call of July 2015 and had provided evidence to show 
she wrote to NHBC at the end of November 2015 notifying it of the claim. So she 
recommended NHBC accept the claim and settle it in line with the warranty terms and 
conditions. 
Ms S accepted our investigators recommendation, however NHBC didnt. It said as the 
claim was made outside of the warranty period, it was right that it wasnt accepted. It asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the warranty document states a claim should be notified as soon as possible 
within this period of cover. And from what Ive seen, it seems NHBC received details of the 
claim the day after the policy expired. However I need to consider if NHBC has treated Ms S 
fairly in the circumstances, and having considered everything I dont think it has here. Ill 
explain why.
Ms S called NHBC in July 2015 and stated that she wished to make a claim for a number of 
issues. Ive listened to this call and her intention to make a claim is clear. Further, NHBC 
advise that the warranty expires in December but dont give an exact date. Given the 
proximity to the end of the policy, and Ms S intention to claim, I think NHBC should have 
made this clearer at this point or in the email after the call. 
Ms S has also provided a copy of a letter dated 27 November 2015 that she says she sent to 
NHBC. This gives details of the claim she was trying to raise.
While it seems NHBC didnt receive the letter within the warranty period, and the first 
notification received was on 6 December, I have no reason to doubt that the letter was sent 
as Ms S describes. 
For these reasons, I think Ms S did enough to notify NHBC of her claim within the warranty 
period. And I therefore dont think NHBC has acted fairly by refusing to accept it. I therefore 
agree with our investigator that NHBC should accept the claim and settle it in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms S complaint and require National House-Building 
Council to accept Ms S claim as laid out in her email of 6 December 2016 and settle it in line 
with the warranty terms and conditions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman