DRN-3636404
The complaint
Mr S has complained Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied a fraud-related 
marker to his record which they wont remove.
What happened
Mr S tried to buy a car in 2021. He was rejected for car finance. He later contacted the credit 
provider to query why there was a fraud-related marker in his name. This had been 
registered on CIFAS, the industry fraud database, in 2021.
VWFS confirmed Mr S had provided amended information in support of his credit application 
which had led to his credit application being rejected. A marker was then applied to his 
record. Despite Mr S telling them hed not done this, VWFS believed theyd done nothing 
wrong.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed VWFS had provided adequate evidence to show theyd met the 
requirements to lodge the marker. Mr S was unable to provide us with further evidence but 
continued to say what had happened was unfair.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator wrote a detailed view on 17 July 2022. I feel no need to rerun a lot of what 
was said there.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. VWFS must be able to 
provide theres evidence Mr S was trying to mislead when he applied for credit in 2021.
VWFS was able to provide us with copies of all the supporting material Mr S provided when 
applying for credit. This included a bank statement, salary slips and his driving licence.
They were also able to show theyd contacted Mr Ss bank which confirmed the bank 
statement had been amended. 
Mr S denies this was done by him. Despite much prompting Mr S has been unable to 
provide copies of what he gave the car dealer in 2021 to support his credit application. At a 
minimum Id have expected Mr S to be able to provide copies of bank statements from that 
period. Even if he wasnt able to give us what he provided at the time  as hes confirmed 
hes using a different phone  hed be able to get bank statements from his bank. Mr S has 
been unwilling to provide us with this information.
I have considered that the broker altered the information Mr S provided to them. But I believe 
this would have been pretty risky as thered have been a chance of Mr S being able to show 
what he actually provided when questioned. Theres no evidence this happened.
Based on the evidence VWFS has provided, Im satisfied they have met the required 
guidelines to lodge a marker appropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman