DRN-1876273
The complaint
Mr L complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have mishandled 
his claim for legal expenses insurance.
LV appoint intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims, 
so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be taken to include the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr L holds legal expenses insurance with LV. He had a motor accident in 2015 which he 
says caused his company to wind up the following year. His associated legal claim was 
handled through a firm of solicitors (Firm L), whom he says were negligent in their handling 
of it. 
Mr L submitted a legal expenses claim with LV in August 2018 for assistance in pursuing 
Firm L for professional negligence. LV subsequently appointed Firm T to conduct a legal 
assessment of the claim to establish whether it enjoyed sufficient prospects of success. The 
solicitors received a substantial amount of paperwork from Firm L, and they recommended 
that the matter be referred to counsel for a legal opinion.
LV agreed for Firm T to instruct counsel, who reported in March 2019 that Mr Ls claim did 
not have a greater than 50% chance of succeeding, which meant that it did not meet the 
policy requirements for cover. Mr L responded with a 30-page analysis of reasons as to why 
he disagreed with counsels opinion. LV agreed to refer the matter back to counsel to 
consider in light of Mr Ls comments. But the legal assessment did not change as it was still 
considered that Mr Ls dispute did not have sufficient prospects. So LV explained that they 
would not be funding Mr Ls claim any further.
Mr L says that LV invited him to instruct his own solicitor to detail why he disagreed with 
counsels opinion, and that they would then consider the matter further. As a result, he says 
he spent ten hours with his solicitor compiling a response, but that LV then said they could 
not consider it as any legal challenge would have to come from a comparably qualified 
barrister at his own expense. 
Mr L complained as he says that LV misled him into believing he could submit a legal 
challenge from his own solicitor that was advising him pro bono. He also complained that 
they refused to consider a claim for negligence against counsel for causing his legal 
expenses claim to be declined. Mr L says he wants LV to either cover his claim to pursue 
Firm L, or alternatively to provide cover for him to pursue the barrister that advised on 
prospects.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. But Mr L explained that the investigator had 
confused his complaint with another he had made concerning separate legal action with a 
different firm of solicitors. Mr L has also since said that LV failed to allow him to choose his 
own solicitors despite there being a conflict of interest present. I issued my provisional decision on 21 May 2020, where I said I did not intend to uphold Mr 
L's complaint, and made the following findings:
Legal Assessment
Although LV initially stated that any legal challenge would have to come from a suitably 
qualified barrister, they said in their email of 17 June 2019 that they would be willing to 
consider the matter further if he could provide a legal challenge from a solicitor.
LV have provided a copy of the legal challenge submitted in response to their email, where 
Mr Ls advisor states:
I have anonymously talked with [Mr L] about the above claim, and, although I am a 
Professor of Law and have written several legal text books, I am not a practising solicitor or 
barrister
a)         The discussion did not any way give rise to a lawyer-client relationship
b)         There was no duty of care, explicit or implied, in my having this discussion
c)         I have only seen a few of the papers in the case and have not given any advice
d)         My name will not be revealed under any circumstances
I offer no opinions or otherwise on the merits of the claim
So, given that Mr Ls pro-bono advisor was not a qualified solicitor or barrister  and given 
that the advisor stated that he was not offering an opinion on the matter  I do not think it 
was unreasonable of LV to decline to request any further legal opinion from counsel in light 
of the advisors comments. And LV have also said that they did provide this report to their 
panel solicitors in any event, but that it did not change the prospects assessment. So in light 
of this evidence, I do not consider LV to have misled Mr L in this respect, so I do not intend 
to award compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I can see that Mr L also submitted his own comments challenging the prospects assessment 
of his claim. But I do not consider that LV would be obliged to obtain a further legal opinion in 
light of his comments either, as Mr Ls opinion cannot reasonably outweigh that of counsels 
or the panel solicitors. Even where a policyholder is himself legally qualified, for example, he 
cannot act as an independent expert in his own cause.
Negligence Claim Against Counsel
Mr L later alleged that counsel who had assessed his claim against Firm L had been 
negligent in his analysis, such that he now wants to pursue the barrister for professional 
negligence, as well as the solicitors. He says that LV have failed to consider this claim. But I 
do not consider that they have.
LV responded to Mr Ls enquiry explaining that it would be excluded under their policy terms, 
which state:
Certain types of claim are not covered under this insurance.
We will not pay for:
Claims made against us or our agents.The barrister in this instance had been instructed by Firm T  who in the first instance were 
advising LV on whether Mr Ls legal claim met the policy requirements and ought to be 
funded by the insurer. I appreciate that counsels chambers refer to Mr L as their lay client 
in correspondence. But it was not Mr L who instructed counsel. His claim had not been 
accepted by the insurer who, in the preliminary stage, appointed Firm T to advise whether 
they ought to cover his claim. So I dont think LV have applied this policy exclusion unfairly, 
given that counsel was essentially advising them on whether they ought to indemnify Mr L in 
the first place. 
Conflict of Interest
Mr L has since raised a further point that LV failed to let him choose his own solicitor as 
there was a conflict of interest. But I cannot see that he raised this in his initial complaint with 
LV, or that they have had the required eight weeks in which to provide their final response on 
the matter. So Mr L would need to raise this as a separate complaint in the first instance to 
give LV the appropriate opportunity to respond. So I will not comment on this point any 
further at this juncture.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr L responded accepting the 
outcome but said, for the avoidance of doubt, that he disagreed that his pro-bono advisor's 
challenge was not valid given that he was not a solicitor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it for the reasons set out above.
I appreciate Mr L feels strongly about this matter, and considers that his pro-bono advisor's 
challenge ought to have held more weight. But I can't ignore the fact that his advisor is not a 
practising solicitor, meaning that his opinion cannot not reasonably outweigh that of a 
specialist practising barrister. And as I set out in my provisional decision, LV referred the 
advisor's comments to the panel solicitors in any event, so I'm satisfied that they did at least 
give it some consideration as they said they would in their email of 17 June 2019.
So I'm not persuaded that LV have acted unfairly in these circumstances, and I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman