DRN-2446084
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Covea Insurance plc rejecting a subsidence claim she made under a 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining why I wasnt initially minded to uphold 
the complaint. The parties were given time to respond; Mrs J has done so, explaining that 
she disagrees with my provisional decision; and Covea has advised that it agrees with the 
decision 
In my provisional decision I explained the background to the complaint. In summary, an 
issue with the shop shutter in May 2018 led Mrs J to get a builder to investigate. As part of 
the builders work they removed the plaster from an internal (party) wall and discovered a 
severe crack up to 50mm wide in places. 
A previous dispute was raised by Mrs J which we looked into. And the outcome of that was 
for Covea to carry out further assessment. It was accepted that Mrs Js property was 
suffering downward movement but Covea refused to cover Mrs Js claim. Covea said the 
movement was historic and relied on images from 2009 of Mrs Js and a neighbouring 
property which showed sloping on front window sills indicating movement had been 
apparent for some time. 
In my provisional decision I said the crux of the complaint centred on when the subsidence 
started, was it during the period of insurance with Covea, and is it fair to require Covea to 
cover any progressive damage. Both Mrs J and Covea have replied to my provisional 
decision and Ive spoken to both parties (separately) to explain each others position and to 
clarify any further information they want to provide.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the building caused by subsidence. But the policy also 
states that Covea is not liable for damage which commenced before the policy started. 
In short, if subsidence started before the Mrs Js policy with Covea then strictly speaking 
under the policy the event isnt covered. But, where damage has occurred after the 
policy started, we may consider it fair that Covea pays for that damage only but not the 
original subsidence.
Covea insured the property from September 2010 to 2012 and then from September 2016 to 
2018, so around half the time Mrs J had insured it since she purchased it. I was persuaded 
by the online images from 2009 that Covea had shown the front window sills were sloping 
towards the party wall and indicated a possibility of existing movement. The images from 
May 2016 showed more pronounced sloping. In the six plus years from the 2009 images 
Covea only insured the property for two years. The next period Covea insured ran from after 
the 2016 images for a period of 20 months at the point the severe cracking was discovered. 
Ive seen various reports that both Mrs J and Covea have provided. But theres no report 
from the original builder Mrs J engaged in May 2018 and theres no invoice for the work 
done. Ive asked Mrs J and she explained no such documents are available and the builder 
was engaged through a member of staff at the premises and kindly helped. 
I was persuaded by Coveas surveyors view that the absence of cracking to the plaster 
finish on the internal wall was persuasive evidence that there hadnt been progressive 
movement. This was based on a view that severe cracking to the party wall would have, in 
all likelihood, become apparent on the finished plaster affixed to it.
In her reply to my provisional decision, Mrs J said when she bought the property, she 
stripped back the plaster to the brickwork and a frame and stud wall was constructed with a 
plasterboard finish. And so, she doesnt see why a crack would present in the plasterboard. 
And shes now provided a surveyors report from 2010.
Ive revisited the relevant photos and information  there is reference to plaster being 
removed but thats in the context of the claim itself rather than being done when Mrs J 
bought the property around 2010. However, I can see what looks like a potential frame  
certainly one image shows a narrow piece of wood running horizontally across the top of the 
party wall. Theres also a short vertical piece of wood running from the top of the frame for a 
short distance. This appears to be part of the frame the plasterboard was originally affixed to 
and raises further thoughts. 
I understand how aesthetically a stud wall can improve the internal look. But it doesnt 
require the plaster to be stripped back though and its apparent from the images that theres 
a section of plaster, albeit small, that wasnt removed. Of course, the importance of this 
information for Mrs J is that if the plaster was stripped off the party wall and there were no 
cracks, it may support the likely onset of movement after 2010. And as Covea insured the 
property for just under 50% of the time from 2010 to 2018 it may mean Covea should fairly 
be responsible for covering the claim.
Mrs J has now sent a legible copy of a surveyors report from 2010 when she bought the 
property. Ive considered it carefully, and within the report theres no reference to any 
suspicion of structural movement. And its apparent that the surveyor inspected the front of 
the premises, theres no mention about the neighbours window sill sloping thats been 
previously mentioned. 
Staying with the 2010 report its also apparent that the internal walls, partitions and ceilings 
were inspected. Theres specific mention of the internal plaster but nothing to show any 
cracks noted. 
The 2010 report was sent to Covea and it says it doesnt change its view. More specifically, 
Covea says that the wooden frame was fixed to the brick wall and the plasterboard fixed to 
the frame. The severity of the cracking in the brick wall is such that it would have translated 
through to cracking or splitting in the plasterboard.
Summary
The main issue is about movement and its onset. The sloping window sill was to a 
neighbouring property and Im mindful the surveyors report was focused on Mrs Js 
property not the neighbouring one. The absence of any mention to cracking to internal 
plaster, could be taken to suggest that there was no evidence of cracking and thus 
movement. Having spoken to Mrs J she says the plaster was removed because it was marked and unsightly. 
Mrs J has been consistent and adamant that at no point has she seen any cracking to 
the party wall or the plasterboard finish. But I must weigh this against Coveas surveyors 
opinion. There was a wooden frame affixed to the party wall and plasterboard affixed to 
the wooden frame. The cracking to the party wall was severe. One measurement of the 
gap is around 50mm, but it looks wider than that is some places. The crack is diagonal 
and runs the full height of the party wall. Based on the sheer severity and extent of the 
cracking I am more persuaded that anything affixed to the wall would, in all likelihood, 
have shown distortion or cracking. And so, if the cracking (and therefore movement) had 
occurred since Mrs J dry lined the party wall, I am satisfied its more likely than not the 
plaster board would have cracked or distorted too. 
Given Mrs Js position that shes never seen any cracking to the plasterboard, including 
in May 2018 when the shutter was first problematic, Im satisfied its more likely than not 
the cracking and therefore movement pre-existed Covea becoming Mrs Js insurer. 
Other matters
Mrs J has indicated that she suffered a loss of rent and loss of profits while her property was 
closed. These fall under the Business Interruption part of the policy and hasnt yet been 
looked at by Covea. Should Mrs J wish to make such claims shell need to provide relevant 
information to Covea for it to consider the claim.
Mrs J has previously complained about the service Covea gave her including being ignored 
and not logging her initial call about the matter. Covea has paid £500 compensation for the 
general upset and distress caused by unnecessary delays and the way the claim was 
handled. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman