DRN-2573273
The complaint
Mr G says Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited mis-sold him an income protection
insurance policy.
What happened
Niche sold Mr G a short-term income protection insurance policy (the policy) in March 2018
which couldve paid him a monthly benefit of £2,000 if he was unable to work if sick or
injured. Subsequently, Mr G was injured and couldnt undertake his full contractual duties for 
several weeks. He made a successful claim on the policy.
Many months later, in October 2018, Mr G sustained another injury which meant he couldnt
perform his full contractual duties for most of that month. He made a further claim on the
policy. This time the claim was declined by the insurer as it said Mr G wasnt eligible to claim
under the policy. It said that Mr G hadnt continuously been working 16 hours per week
during the six months immediately preceding the policy being taken out. So, it subsequently
cancelled the policy and said it shouldnt have paid out on the first claim hed made.
Given the insurers position that Mr G wasnt eligible to claim under the policy, Mr G said
Niche mis-sold the policy to him. Niche disagreed so Mr G brought a complaint to our
Service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint and recommended Niche pay the claim made 
under the policy for the period he was unable to perform his full contractual duties in October 
2018 together with 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date on which the 
claim shouldve been paid. Niche didnt think that was fair. So, Mr Gs complaint was passed 
to me to consider everything afresh to make a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint at the end of January 2021 explaining why 
I wasnt intending to uphold it - part of which is copied below:
Niche recommended the policy to Mr G. So, not only did it have an obligation to ensure that
it was suitable for his needs, but it also had to provide him with clear, fair and not
misleading information about the main terms of the policy.
At the time the policy sold, I dont think it ought to have reasonably known that Mr G wasnt
eligible for the policy.
Im satisfied Mr G met the age and residency requirements of the eligibility criteria. 
The policy also says to be eligible Mr G must be:
in work and have been so continuously for the previous six months.
Work, worked or working is defined as:
being in employment, self-employed, or where applicable, on statutory maternity
leave, parental leave, adoption leave or maternity absence.
And employment is defined as:
working for at least 16 hours a week under a contract of employment or that is a
fixed term contract. You must be receiving a salary or wages that can be evidenced
via bank account records and / or HM Revenue & Customs records.
I dont know to what extent (if at all), Niche explored the eligibility requirements with Mr G.
The demands and needs statement which Niche says was completed around the time
doesnt suggest much thought was given to such issues when recommending the policy to
Mr G.
But from the information Ive been provided, I can see that Mr G had a fixed term
employment contract with his employer which commenced  and had been continuously in
place - more than six months before the policy had been taken out. Under that fixed term
contract he received a basic salary each month whether he was sick or injured and unable to
perform his full contractual duties. However, if he couldnt perform his full contractual duties,
he wasnt entitled to receive certain bonus or incentive payments for the period when he
wasnt able to work. Its that shortfall in pay that the policy benefit couldve covered in the
event of a claim.
Although, Mr G had been continuously employed for six months prior to the policy being
taken out, there had been some weeks during the preceding six months where hed been
injured and not able to perform his full contractual duties. The insurer has used this as the
reason to say that Mr G wasnt eligible under the policy; it says he hadnt continuously been
working 16 hours per week during the six months immediately preceding the policy being
taken out.
But the eligibility criterion doesnt say that Mr G had to be injury or sickness free in the
previous six months nor that he mustnt have had any time off ill or injured. It only says that
he had to be continuously employed for at least 16 hours per week and receiving a salary in
the previous six months. And from all the information available to me, I think he was
employed for at least 16 hours per week under a fixed term employment contract. Further,
throughout that period, hed - at the very least - received his basic salary each month from
his employer which is required under the policy definition of employment.
The policy doesnt cover absence from work as a result of any illness or injury which
occurred within the 12 months preceding the policys start date, or that Mr G was aware of at
the start date, unless Mr G had been symptom free and not received any treatment for at
least 24 months after the start date. Ive thought very carefully about whether this made the
policy unsuitable and in the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think it did.
Ive seen the statement of demands and needs which Niche says was completed for Mr G
around the sale of the policy. It doesnt reflect that Mr G was asked any specific questions
about whether hed been sick or injured in the last 12 months. Nor does it show he was
asked any questions about whether hed sought medical treatment or advice for anything
during the same period.
Mr G had incurred several injuries in the 12 months preceding the start of the policy for
which he received medical attention. Ive seen an email between Niche and the insurer of
the policy dated February 2018, around one month before the policy was sold to Mr G.
Although not specifically relating to Mr G, Niche does ask questions about the way in which
the pre-existing medical conditions exclusion applies under the policy to professions similar
to Mr Gs. Its told:we would refer to a specialist who would give us a judgement on if and how much of 
an effect the pre-existing injury had on the new injury. A worst-case scenario here is 
that the expert says it was 100% due to the pre-existing in which case we wouldnt 
pay, but these would be very few and far between. More commonly we get that there 
was an increased risk of say 10% so we would reduce the amount paid by 10%. To 
be honest, we get very few if any of that scenario in sports as people tend not to go 
back until informed, they can by a doctor.
Ill refer to this as the insurers explanation.
Mr G had also been injured  and not performing his full contractual duties  at the time the
policy was taken out. But it looks like he was on the road to full recovery at the time. It also
looks like he recovered fully from the other injuries hed experienced in the 12 months before
the policy was taken out before resuming full contractual duties for his employer. So, I dont
think this exclusion made the recommendation unsuitable based on the insurers
explanation.
I think Niche fairly relied on the eligibility criteria as set out in the policy terms and the
information theyd received from the insurer after Niche had made enquiries about how the
policy would work in practice when recommending the policy to Mr G.
Nor do I think that other features of the policy made it unsuitable. The monthly benefit under
the policy was £2,000  which roughly equated to certain bonus and incentive payments Mr
G couldve received from his employer if he was able to undertake his full duties. So, I think
Mr G had a need for the policy. Further, I dont think the cost of the monthly premium meant
that the policy was unaffordable or - when compared with the monthly benefit  unsuitable.
And I dont think the waiting period of 14 days before a claim could be made on the policy
meant it wasnt suitable.
I dont know what information Mr G was given at the time the policy was sold to him and
whether he was given clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the
policy. Its possible he wasnt. But for the reasons why Im intending to find that the policy
wasnt unsuitable for him, as outlined above, Im not currently persuaded that if hed been
given all the information that he shouldve been in a clear, fair and not misleading way, he
wouldve chosen not to have taken out the policy.
For example, even if he had been given clearer information about the pre-existing medical
condition exclusion, Im not currently persuaded that would have stopped him taking out the
policy given the insurers explanation, and further, that in my experience such exclusions are
very common in standalone short-term income protection insurance policies. So, as he
wanted this type of policy, its unlikely that any policy wouldve covered pre-existing medical
conditions as a standard feature.
So, Im intending to find that the policy wasnt mis-sold to Mr G. Even if I thought that the
policy benefits and exclusions hadnt been explained to Mr G, the available evidence doesnt
persuade me hed have not chosen this policy or taken out a different one.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Niche had nothing further to add. Mr G referred me 
to the decision of another ombudsman not upholding his complaint against the insurer for not 
paying a claim under the policy for the period he was unable to undertake his full contractual duties in October 2018 due to injury. He also provided some further information and said, 
amongst other things, that:
- before taking out the policy, he discussed with Niches representative in great depth 
about whether hed be covered given his recent medical history and whether any of 
his injuries would make me ineligible for the policy. 
- hes aware of medical exemptions having taken out more expensive 'career ending 
insurance' in the past. So, he was sure to ask to what extent his previous injuries 
would exclude him from cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the additional comments received from Mr G. The information hes provided, 
the contents of the other ombudsmans decision Id already seen when issuing my 
provisional decision, and Mr Gs further representations havent changed my thoughts about 
the outcome of the complaint Ive decided; whether the policy was mis-sold to him by Niche.
Mr G says conversations took place about his previous injuries with Niches representative 
around the time the policy was taken out. Although, those discussions arent reflected in the 
documentation from around the time of sale, I wouldve expected Niche to have had those 
types of discussions to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr Gs needs.
In light of what Mr G says was discussed  and for the reasons already set out in my 
provisional decision - I think Niche fairly relied on the eligibility criteria as set out in the policy 
terms (and the information theyd received from the insurer after Niche had made enquiries 
about how the policy would work in practice) when recommending the policy to Mr G. And at 
the time of selling the policy to him Im not persuaded that the recommendation was unfair or 
unreasonable.
So, for these reasons and for those set out in my provisional decision  which form part of 
my final decision  I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. I dont think the policy was mis-sold to 
him. I know he will be very disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help him to know 
that his complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman