DRN-4393020
The complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his claim by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) following an accident he had when driving, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged as a result of an accident. He made a claim to Advantage, and it 
arranged for the damage to be inspected. The car was considered a total loss, which Mr M 
disagreed with. He says the business included pre-accident damage, which it shouldnt 
have. Mr M says the settlement payment he was offered was too low. He also complained 
about the standard of service he received from the advisers he spoke to. 
In its final complaint response Advantage says it calculated the market value of Mr Ms car 
using two of the industry trade guides. The average of these came to £10,044 but it agreed 
to increase this to £10,147. Advantage says there was a delay in arranging collection of Mr 
Ms car. It offered £50 to apologise for this. 
Mr M didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. She acknowledged that since its final complaint response 
Advantage had reduced its settlement offer by £3,162.14. This was to account for pre-
existing damage to Mr Ms car. She says our approach here is to reduce the repair estimate 
for the pre-existing damage by 50%. So, Advantage should reduce its settlement offer by 
£1,581.07 not the full repair estimate. 
Our investigator says Advantage treated Mr M fairly when categorising his car as a total loss. 
This was based on the ratio of the market value compared with the estimated repair costs. 
She obtained two more trade guide valuations that gave a higher value for Mr Ms car. 
Based on this evidence she thought a fair market value came to £10,585. She says 
Advantage should pay this minus the deduction for pre-existing damage. 
In addition, our investigator thought Advantage should pay £250 compensation to Mr M. This 
was because it handled his expectations poorly, there were some claim handling delays and 
customer service failings. 
Advantage didnt accept this outcome. It says it should be able to deduct the full cost of the 
pre-existing damage from its settlement payment. Because an agreement wasnt reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive seen the repair reports Advantages engineer produced. The claim damage on the front 
of Mr Ms car was estimated to cost £7,313.42. The estimate for the pre-existing damage to 
the rear of Mr Ms car came to £3,162.14. All the damage was initially included in the claim. I 
note Mr Ms comments that Advantage was told not to do this. 
Advantage made a mistake when including the pre-existing damage. However, of relevance 
here is it still considered the car to be a write-off, solely based on the front end damage. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms policy terms to see what it says about claims involving a total loss. The 
terms say:
If your Car cant be repaired or your Insurer deems your Car to be unsafe or the cost of 
repair to be uneconomical, your Car will be declared a Total Loss (sometimes called a write-
off).
The point at which an insurer will determine a vehicle is uneconomical to repair varies. But 
generally speaking, this will be when the repair costs exceed 60% - 70% of the market value. 
In this case the cost of repairs was in excess of 70% of the estimated market value. Based 
on this evidence I dont think it was unreasonable for Advantage to treat Mr Ms car as a total 
loss.
I can understand that Mr M wants the best possible settlement for the loss of his car. He 
says he was going to sell it to a friend for £12,500. He also says he found similar cars 
advertised for sale at a higher value that Advantage offered. Ive looked at the cover Mr Ms 
policy provided. It says in the event of a total loss it will pay the market value of the vehicle. 
This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
Our investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the main 
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides consider regional variations. We also take all 
other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Ive seen the trade guide valuations Advantage provided. It used the correct model, 
specification, and mileage for Mr Ms car at the loss date. These came to £10,195 and 
£9,940. Our investigator obtained valuations from two more of the trade guides. Again, the 
correct information was used for Mr Ms car and the loss date. The valuations were £10,448 
and £10,722. 
I note our investigator checked adverts for similar cars for sale at the time of Mr Ms loss. 
She says this showed the trade guides Advantage used didnt fairly reflect the market value. 
So, she discounted the trade guide valuations the business had used, and instead took an 
average of the remaining trade guide valuations to arrive at a market value of £10,585. 
We look at all available information when considering whether an insurer has offered a fair 
settlement. We find the trade guide valuations to be persuasive for the reasons discussed. But because of recent changes in the market, we are increasingly hearing cars selling either 
for or close to their advertised price. Ive looked at the information our investigator 
considered showing a number of similar cars for sale. I think this supports the view that the 
trade guide valuations Advantage used, dont fairly reflect the market value of Mr Ms car.  
Based on this evidence, I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to take the average 
of the higher trade guide valuations.  
Ive thought about the pre-existing damage to Mr Ms car. The photos and engineer report 
show there was significant damage to the rear of the vehicle. Its reasonable to expect this 
damage would impact on its market value. I dont think Advantages approach to deduct the 
repair costs from its settlement was unreasonable. However, we have a long-standing 
approach in these circumstances. We think that taking 50% of the repair estimate for the 
pre-existing damage, and deducting this from the settlement amount, is fair. 
Advantage disagrees with this approach. It says the full cost of the repairs should be 
deducted, as estimated by its engineer. 
However, Advantage based its repair estimate on completing manufacturer standard repairs 
to bring the car back to retail condition. Consumers often chose to seek a cheaper repair 
option, particularly with older vehicles. This could, for example, mean using a smaller 
independent garage with lower labour costs. For this reason, I think its fair to apply our long-
standing approach here. Advantage should limit its deduction for the pre-existing damage to 
50% of its estimated repair costs, which is £1,581.07. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr Ms concerns about the standard of service he received. He says 
he had to chase his case handler, who he felt was rude to him and didnt keep him up to 
date with his claim. When he disputed the settlement value, he says an agent told him to 
provide evidence of similar cars advertised for sale, which he did. He was subsequently told 
this wasnt needed as Advantage valued his car using the trade guides. Mr M explains that 
delays occurred due to confusion over the car being a total loss. This is because Advantage 
included pre-existing damage in its initial assessment of the repairs. It took some time before 
this was resolved and a new decision made based on the claim damage only. This was the 
same decision to write-off his car, but it caused a delay. 
I can see from Advantages claim notes that Mr M raised issues with how an agent had 
become frustrated with him and had been rude. Ive listened to the call recording between Mr 
M and the engineer who valued his car. Mr M says early in the call that hed been having 
difficulty receiving information about his claim. The engineer was able to provide some 
explanations. But its apparent Mr M hadnt had a good experience.
 
The claim notes confirm Advantages engineer had incorrectly assumed all damage was part 
of the claim. This meant further contact from Mr M to clarify what the claim should include. 
The settlement figure was then revised down significantly to account for the pre-existing 
damage, which came as a shock to Mr M. I can see from his submissions to our service that 
he found this very distressing. He also refers to his financial situation being difficult, and this 
ongoing claim was making matters worse. 
Advantage offered Mr M £50 compensation for the standard of service he received. Given 
the issues described here and considering the distress and inconvenience, the delays, and 
the error with the settlement valuation caused, I think a higher compensation payment is 
warranted. I agree with our investigator that a payment of £250 in total, is fair. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should:
settle Mr Ms claim with a total payment of £9,003.93 less his policy excess; 
pay 8% simple interest* on the delayed part of the settlement, from one month after 
the claim until the settlement is paid; and
pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. 
*If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman