DRN-3466586
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Mi Vehicle 
Finance Limited trading as Mann Island Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 19 August 2020, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Mann Island. The agreement was for £32,730 over 60 months; with 59 monthly 
repayments of £462.15 and a final payment of £463.15. At the time, the car was six and a 
half years old and had done 38,500 miles.
Mr S said he found faults with the car shortly after taking possession of it. He said he had to 
replace the front brake pads and the rear brake pads and discs, change a front tyre, change 
the oil and oil filter, the engine mounts were leaking and needed to be replaced, the upper 
and lower front arms needed replacing, and worn suspension components needed to be 
replaced. He also said the gearbox was faulty. He said all of these happened within two 
months of getting the car. He said the repairs cost him more than £5,000.
He complained to Mann Island. They said the gearbox had been repaired under warranty 
and at no cost to Mr S. They said the car had passed an MOT with no advisories before it 
was supplied. They said the items Mr S claimed he had to replace wouldve shown up on the 
MOT.
Our investigator was satisfied that the brake pads, the tyres, the suspension and oil filter 
were of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale, and that the issues Mr S had were caused 
by wear and tear. But she was satisfied there was a fault with the gearbox. She said that 
among other things Mann Island should refund Mr S the repair costs related to the gearbox. 
She also said they should refund 10% of the monthly payments to reflect Mr Ss impaired 
usage of the car, and pay £225 for the distress and inconvenience she felt hed been 
caused.
Mann Island then told us that Mr S had only made one payment towards the agreement. Our 
investigator then informed Mr S that shed reconsidered. She said that she didnt think it was 
fair to ask Mann Island to pay anything more, because hed paid £465 to Mann Island, but he 
owed more than £5,000 under the agreement. 
Because the amount he shouldve paid was more than the repair costs hed paid, and 
because theyd already paid him £225 in compensation, she didnt think it was reasonable to 
ask Mann Island to pay him any more redress. Mann Island agreed not to purse Mr S for the 
amounts outstanding under the agreement, effectively treating the amounts he paid for the 
repairs to cover the 8,000 miles usage hed had.
Mr S didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Mann 
Island are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
Brakes, tyres, suspension and oil filter
Brakes are a key component and provide a vital function. So its important that they are of a 
satisfactory quality. Its for this reason that they are included in the MOT test. An MOT test 
was done in August 2020, just before Mr S acquired the car. It passed the test and there 
were no advisories. I wouldve expected to have seen an advisory report if any of the brake 
pads or discs were close to the legal minimum.
Ive also seen the pre-delivery inspection report from the supplying dealer that shows the 
front and rear pads and discs were at 90%. 
Based on the MOT test, and the documentation provided at the time of sale, Im satisfied 
that the brakes would have been of satisfactory quality at the time of sale.
The tyres would also have been checked at the MOT. Like the brakes, the MOT didnt report 
these as coming close to the end of their legal life. And the pre-delivery inspection report 
shows all four tyres being well above the legal minimum.
So for the same reason as the brakes, Im satisfied the tyres were of a satisfactory quality at 
the time of the sale.
The vehicle Inspection reported dated 22 September 2020 check form submitted by Mr S 
shows issues with the suspension. The report advises the replacement of the worn 
suspension components.  Im satisfied the issues with the suspension were due to wear and 
tear, as the report highlighted, and not present at the time of sale.
Mr S supplied an invoice showing the replacement of the oil filter in September 2020. At this 
point the car had travelled more than 1,300 miles since Mr S acquired it. The manufacturers 
report shows no issues with the oil, so Im satisfied that the replacement was more than 
likely due to wear and tear.
So I wont be asking Mann Island to take any action in relation to these parts.
GearboxThe gearbox did have issues. These were repaired in September 2020 under the warranty 
provided to Mr S. He complained again about the gearbox in November 2020. And it 
required another repair by a main dealer in July 2021. I satisfied that the first repair didnt 
work  this is because further faults arose that required another repair.
The CRA says that the car can be rejected if the repair failed. I dont think thats reasonable 
here, as further repairs were done, and the fault was fixed. So I think that its reasonable that 
Mann Island pay for the repairs that Mr S had to pay for.
Putting things right
It would appear that the gearbox wasnt performing as it should have been until July 2021. 
So I would normally say that he should be refunded 10% of the monthly premiums hes paid 
to reflect the impaired usage hes had.
I would also normally state here the amounts he paid for the repairs to the gearbox, and 
instruct Mann Island to pay the total amount to Mr S.
And I understand this has been stressful time for Mr S. And I agree that an award of £225 
would be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
But Mr S only paid one monthly payment towards the agreement.  He made one payment of 
£465, when he should have paid more than £5,000. Hes also driven the car for more than 
8,000 miles in the period.
Mann Island have said they are willing to write off the outstanding amount Mr S owes on the 
agreement, and not purse him for the debt. Effectively setting off the redress I would 
normally have awarded.
I think that is a fair and reasonable way to settle this matter.
So, Mann Island should end the agreement with nothing further for Mr S to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mann Island Financial Services (GB) 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman