DRN-3675802
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) rejected his claims 
under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product. I gather the 
purchase was made by Mr and Mrs T, but as the finance agreement was in Mr Ts name he 
is the eligible complainant. In this decision for simplicity I will refer to Mr T as the sole 
purchaser.
What happened
In April 2008 Mr T purchased a holiday product from a company I will call S. It cost some 
£25,000 and this was funded in part or wholly by a loan from BPF. In January 2021 PR 
submitted a letter of claim to BPF. It said that
S was now in liquidation and this meant it had breached the contract.
The terms of the agreement were unfair and commission paid by BPF had been 
hidden
Mr T had been pressurised and intimidated at a meeting he attended while on 
holiday.
False and misleading representations had been made.
I have not seen a final response letter from BPF, but in responding to this service it said that 
the claims had been made out of time. PR bought a complaint to this service. In addition to 
the points raised in the letter of claim it said that S had not conducted a proper assessment 
of Mr Ts ability to afford the loan. It claimed that Mr T had struggled to repay the loan along 
with the maintenance fees.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He said the claims had been made out of time and he had not seen any evidence 
that the loan was unaffordable.
PR accepted our investigators view and said it was seeking agreement from Mr T to 
withdraw the complaint. Despite several reminders the complaint has not been withdrawn 
and so it falls to me to issue this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why, but firstly I would point out that little in the 
way of documentary evidence has been submitted by either party. I mention this not as a 
criticism of either party but simply to put some of my findings  and the assumptions on 
which they have been based  into context. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
The nature of the loan means that it would have been a regulated credit agreement covered 
by the Consumer Credit Act. I have assumed that S acted as credit broker as well as being 
the seller of the timeshare.
Under s. 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection with a 
consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. In this case, that means that 
anything S said about the timeshare or the loan is to be treated in the same way as if it had 
been said by BPF.
In addition, one effect of s. 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
I am satisfied that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. I must therefore 
consider what the position might be if Mr T were to bring a claim or claims against S, either 
for misrepresentation of for breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
I would make the general comment that the allegations about what was said in 2008 are 
quite vague in this case. Again, that is understandable, given the passage of time.
However, under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr T into the timeshare contract were made in 2008, but no claim was made until January 2021, more than 12 years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation against S would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.
In the circumstances, I think that BPFs response was reasonable.
Breach of contract
The relevant time limit for claims for breach of contract is six years from the date of breach. 
PR says that S breached its contract with Mr T when it went into liquidation. That was in 
February 2020.
I am not persuaded however that the liquidation of the seller of the timeshare means that it 
has breached its contract with Mr T. The key issue in my view is whether Mr T is still being 
provided with what he agreed to buy. I understand that the current management of the resort 
has confirmed that customers are still able to book holidays and that the resort is still 
operating. 
In short I am not persuaded that PR and Mr T have shown that there is a breach of contract 
here, and again I think that BPFs response to this part of the complaint was reasonable.
Commission
PR says that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship (within the meaning of s. 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act) because S failed to disclose the commission it was 
receiving from BPF. It says that it was not sufficient for S to say that it would receive 
commission  it had to say how much it would be. I infer from that statement that Mr T was 
told in general terms that commission would be paid.
The general duty to disclose commission did not arise until 1 April 2014. CONC 4.5.3R (a 
rule in that part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook dealing with consumer credit) 
came into effect on that date and requires a broker to disclose the existence and nature of 
any commission that could actually or potentially  affect the impartiality of the credit 
broker in recommending the credit agreement CONC 4.5.4R makes it a general 
requirement to disclose the amount of commission if a borrower asks for it.
Earlier case law said that commission should be disclosed where, for example, there is a 
conflict of interest. I do not believe that was the case here, however. I understand that S was 
not introducing BPF from a range of providers paying different levels of commission; it could 
only arrange the loan with BPF. It is not apparent that there was any actual or potential 
conflict of interest.
The courts (and this service) have also found that many lenders acted unfairly when they 
sold payment protection insurance alongside loans but failed to disclose the very high 
commissions received from the insurers. That is however a very different scenario from what 
happened in this case.
Regulatory rules (such as CONC) do not generally relax obligations which businesses must 
meet. If anything, they tend to strengthen and add to them. I do not believe that S would 
have had to disclose the amount of any commission if it had arranged the loan on or after 1 
April 2014 (unless Mr T had asked, of course), so I think it unlikely that it had to so in 2008.
In any event, Mr T does not suggest that he did ask about the amount of any commission. If 
he had asked, there is no reason to think that S would not have told him how much it was, or 
that its response would have affected his decision to buy the timeshare or take out the loan.The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mr T had to make his claim within six years of when the loan ended  which I gather 
was in 2009. But as the claim was made in February 2021, it was made outside of the time 
limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I do not think the lime limits set out above could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
I think Mr Ts claims made under the CCA have been made too late and outside of the 
limitation periods. That finding is not to be confused with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) that set out when the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider complaints about the activities of firms the FCA regulates.
Mr T made claims under the CCA. Such claims are first made to the responsible business 
and, if the business does not accept them, a consumer has several options. They could refer 
their claim to a court and ask a judge to determine it, or, as has happened in this case, they 
could ask our service to consider a complaint about the business decision to turn down their 
claim.
DISP says that a consumer has six years in which to complain about an event or, if longer, 
three years after they realised or ought reasonable to have realised that they had a reason 
to complain. Those rules apply to complaints about regulated financial activities, which in the 
current context, is the way in which BPF exercised its rights and duties under a regulated 
agreement when it assessed the CCA claims.
The claim was dealt with less than six years before the complaint was referred to our 
service. Further, while there was more than six years between the sale and the claim, I 
cannot see anything that would have triggered Mr T to realise he had a possible reason to 
complain about the things he did before he spoke with PR. However, Mr T made legal claims 
to BPF and, when it considered those claims, it relied on defences available under the LA. 
So that is why I have considered that legislation.
I have considered s.32 LA, which states that in cases where an action is based on the fraud 
of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been deliberately concealed from 
the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant 
discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence).
One reason it has been suggested this applies is because the timeshare provider concealed 
from Mr T that it was illegal to sell a timeshare as an investment, following Regulation 14(3) 
of the Timeshare Regulations 2010.
S. 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. However the Timeshare Regulations 
2010 did not come into effect for several years after Mr T bought his timeshare, so I cannot 
see that the timeshare provider concealed anything about how its sale complied with the 
Timeshare Regulations 2010. Nor do I think there is any evidence that the way in which the 
timeshare worked in practice was deliberately concealed from Mr T. So I do not think s.32 
LA assists him.I have also considered what F says about the amount of commission that might have been 
paid by BPF to the timeshare provider for arranging the loan. PR argues that BPF should 
have told Mr T about that.
From what I have seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low 
and usually less than 10%. I am satisfied BPF did not breach any duty in making such a 
payment, nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. Further, I do not think the levels of commission that are normally paid 
in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that BPF should have appreciated not 
disclosing commission to Mr T risked the relationship being unfair under s.140A.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr T is able to rely on s.32 LA here either. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that 
S was acting as agent to Mr T. I cannot see that its role was to make an impartial or dis-
interested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I do not think the timeshare 
provider needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to Mr T.
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it concluded the s.75 CCA 
misrepresentation and s.140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mr T may have against the supplier or BPF has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those claims 
that Mr T might have against the timeshare supplier and/or BPF have most likely exceeded 
the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these 
circumstances. And I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mr T has a claim against S, or whether he might therefore 
have a like claim under s. 75 of the CCA. Nor can I make orders under s.140A and s. 140A 
of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship and make orders amending it.
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ts 
complaint. In the circumstances, I think that BPFs response to Mr Ts claims was fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman