DRN-3676023
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wrongly applied interest to 
his credit card balance during a promotional interest free period. He also complains that this 
was not mentioned during a review of his finances with the bank.
What happened
Mr C has been represented by another person during our investigation. For clarity I will, 
however, address this decision directly to him.
Mr C took out a credit card with NatWest on 21 October 2020 with a credit limit of over 
£10,000. He says that he was particularly attracted to this card as it included a promotional 
period during which interest would not be charged on purchases. Mr C says that he 
understood that his period was 23 months. He made purchases totalling around £2,800 and 
set up a direct debit to make the minimum payments. Mr C says that his intention was to 
clear the balance on the card by the end of the 23-month period, avoiding any interest being 
charged.
NatWest say that the credit agreement which Mr C signed provided for an interest free 
period of three months, rather than 23. They say that this was clear in the agreement, and 
that Mr C was simply mistaken to think that it was a 23-month period. They do not think that 
they did anything to cause this mistake.
Interest was, in fact, charged on the balance from 21 January 2021. Mr C says that he had 
no intention of using the card any further, and so did not monitor the account, believing that 
he did not need to do so. Because of this, he says that he did not notice that interest was 
being charged.
NatWest say that they sent Mr C monthly statements and that his account was viewable 
through their banking app. They say that interest was being properly charged and that this 
was brought to Mr Cs attention appropriately.
On 1 November 2021, Mr C and a NatWest staff member undertook what was described as 
a financial review. Mr C says that the staff member ought to have brought the fact that he 
was paying interest on his credit card to his attention, and suggested that this was not an 
effective way of using that form of credit. NatWest say that this was review was not intended 
to form financial advice and that this was made clear to Mr C. They say that Mr C did not 
raise any concerns about his credit card, and that there was no reason to suspect that there 
was any issue with it.
Mr C says that he noticed that interest was being applied to his account in February 2022. 
He raised this immediately with the bank, who told him that the interest-free period had only 
been for three months. He has since cleared the balance on the account.
Our investigator did not think that the bank had got anything wrong. They considered that the 
interest-free period was made clear on the application which Mr C completed, and that there 
had been no reason for the staff member to suspect that the card was inappropriate for Mr C 
during the review.
Mr C did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered the usage of the account, I am satisfied that Mr Cs descriptions of his 
belief and intentions in relation to it are accurate. He made some early purchases, and then 
made his monthly payments. His use of the card is consistent with his description of his 
understanding of the promotional period.
Having reviewed all of the evidence provided, however, I am also satisfied that the relevant 
promotional period on the account was for three, rather than 23 months. While I am satisfied 
that Mr C was mistaken about the length of the promotional period, I must also consider 
whether the bank did anything to cause that mistake. Having considered all of the evidence, 
I am satisfied that it did not. 
The two-page credit application which Mr C signed when applying for the card sets out that 
interest will be charged on purchases after the first three months at 18.276% annually. This 
is stated in plain terms, and neither hidden away nor masked by jargon. There was also a 
pre-contract credit information document which set out the same information in clear terms. 
Given this, I am satisfied both that the promotional period was for three months and that the 
bank brought this to Mr Cs attention appropriately at the outset.
I have considered the monthly statements which were sent to Mr C. I can see that the 
statement of January 2021 describes the interest-free period as ending on 21 January 2021. 
Once interest was being charged, this was made clear in the annual and monthly statements 
in relation to the card. While I believe that Mr C was not checking his statements, and can 
understand his reason for not doing so, I cannot say that the bank was responsible for this. 
They brought the interest rate to his attention appropriately both before and after the account 
was taken out. 
I have considered the financial review of November 2021. No recording of the review is 
available, and so I have to make my findings based upon the information which has been 
provided by the parties. The notes taken by the staff member during that review that are 
brief, but clear. Given that it was being carried out by a general branch staff member, rather 
than a financial advisor, I am satisfied that this was not intended to form financial advice. 
This would ordinarily be brought to a customers attention and I am satisfied that it is not 
likely that the staff member would have suggested that it was, in fact, such advice. This is 
supported by the fact that Mr Cs interest in life insurance led to a call back being requested, 
rather than any further investigation of the point by that staff member.
The staff member has noted that Mr C has a credit card and has no short-term borrowing 
needs. The card was comfortably within its credit limit, with no missed payments. Mr C did 
not have any concerns about the card, as he had not yet realised that interest was being 
charged. In the circumstances, I do not think that the staff member had any reason to think 
that Mr C was unaware of the terms on the card or the fact that interest was being charged. I 
do not think that they got anything wrong by not investigating the point further.
While I can certainly understand Mr Cs frustration at the fact that interest has been applied 
when he did not expect it, I do not agree that the bank did anything to cause his confusion 
about the promotional period. I am also satisfied that there was no reason for the credit card 
to be investigated further during the review. I am not going to ask NatWest to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023. 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman