DRN-2884437
The complaint
Mrs S complains that NRAM Limited treated her unfairly when it was her mortgage lender.  
She says she was a mortgage rate prisoner because she was unable to access new 
products or re-mortgage elsewhere, leaving her trapped paying NRAMs standard variable 
rate (SVR)  which she says was inflated and unfairly high. 
To resolve the matter, Mrs S would like a refund of the extra interest she feels shes paid on 
her mortgage. 
What happened
In 2004, Mrs S took out a mortgage, of around £181,000 on an interest only basis with 
Northern Rock over a 15-year term. This was arranged on a 100% loan to value (LTV) basis, 
meaning that Mrs S was borrowing for the entire value of the property, without needing to put 
down a deposit. This was on an initial two-year fixed interest rate. In 2006, she took a further 
fixed interest rate product. 
Northern Rock collapsed and was nationalised by the government following the financial 
crisis of 2007-8, and Mrs Ss mortgage passed to the successor company NRAM. Following 
this, no new interest rates were offered by NRAM and so Mrs S was left paying the SVR. 
She says that it wasnt until around 2016, when her property had sufficiently increased in 
value, that she was able to re-mortgage elsewhere.
As Mrs S has since been able to re-mortgage with a different lender, this complaint is about 
the period from 2008  2016 (when she changed lenders). Mrs S says that over this period, 
she paid inflated interest rates.
When Mrs S made her recent complaint, NRAM didnt uphold it and so she referred the 
matter to this service. 
Our investigator set out what this service can consider and what we are unable to due to the 
time rules that apply. Both parties agreed with this and so in this decision, Ill look at Mrs Ss 
complaint that she was not offered new rates and charged an unfairly high rate of interest 
over the period between February 2014 to May 2016  the period between six years before 
she complained and when she redeemed the mortgage with NRAM and changed lenders. 
The investigator didnt think NRAM had acted unfairly by not offering new interest rates and 
didnt consider there were any contractual barriers trapping Mrs S into the SVR with NRAM. 
Mrs D disagreed and said that she was trapped as she originally took out a 100% LTV 
mortgage  and so was unable to move to a different lender until the price of her property 
increased. She also says its unfair that NRAM was not offering new rates.  
She asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ss situation and Im sympathetic to the position she found 
herself in. She describes herself as a mortgage rate prisoner because she originally took a 
100% LTV mortgage, and then became stuck as NRAM was unable to offer new products. 
She says she tried to re-mortgage elsewhere but couldnt as other lenders required her to 
have a higher deposit. She recalls at the time that most lenders would only allow around 
60% LTV to re-mortgage. 
Typically, if a borrower was unhappy with their lender or the rate offered, they would have 
been able to apply for a new interest rate, or re-mortgage elsewhere. Unfortunately, in this 
case Mrs S couldnt do either of those things. 
Once Northern Rock collapsed and was nationalised, with its loans moving to NRAM, it was 
no longer able to offer new interest rates. All its borrowers moved on to the SVR once their 
fixed rates expired. So, in not being offered new fixed rates, Mrs S was in the same position 
as all NRAMs other customers and wasnt treated unfairly compared to other customers. 
Ive also looked carefully at Mrs Ss mortgage agreement. Theres nothing in this that says 
she was entitled to a new rate  and thats also true of most other lenders mortgage 
agreements too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that requires NRAM to offer 
new interest rates.
Taking everything into account, I dont think that NRAM treated Mrs S unfairly by not offering 
her new rates.
Mrs S also says she was charged too much interest on NRAMs SVR. Ive considered this 
and can see that it was similar to the SVR rates offered by other lenders at the time. And, in 
Mrs Ss case, her mortgage was transferred onto a loyalty rate, which was guaranteed to be 
at least 0.25% below the SVR during the period in question. So, I dont consider that NRAM 
charged Mrs S an unfair rate of interest. 
I appreciate the dilemma that Mrs S found herself in - she was unable to get a new rate with 
NRAM or re-mortgage to another lender. But Im aware that there was not an early 
repayment charge (ERC) that applied to her mortgage when it reverted to the SVR that 
would have presented a barrier to Mrs S moving her mortgage to another lender. With this in 
mind, I dont agree that she was trapped with NRAM because of anything NRAM did or any 
barriers it put in her way. 
Rather, she was unable to re-mortgage to another lender due to her high loan to value and 
the wider circumstances following the financial crisis, government intervention and change of 
lenders risk appetite. Whilst I accept that she was in a difficult position at the time and agree 
that through no fault of her own, she ended up with a closed book lender - I cant fairly hold 
NRAM responsible for this. NRAM wasnt in breach of any of its obligations and I dont think 
it treated her unfairly compared to its other customers. 
When her property price did increase, Mrs S was able to move lenders. Considering this, I 
dont agree that she was trapped due to the actions of NRAM and I dont think it was within 
NRAMs influence to make another lender offer Mrs S a new mortgage sooner. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, Im not satisfied that 
NRAM has treated her unfairly. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman