DRN-3728083
The complaint
Mr B complains that Transunion International UK Ltd (Transunion) merged his and his 
brothers credit file, allowing his brother access to see his personal data.
What happened
It was brought to Mr Bs attention in April 2022 that his brother was able to see his personal 
credit information as their accounts had been merged by Transunion. Mr B raised a 
complaint with Transunion about this which they responded to in June 2022. They said an 
error had occurred and explained they had made arrangements for this to be corrected. 
They said it should take 5 to 7 working days but couldnt guarantee a timeframe.
Mr B responded to Transunion explaining he was unhappy with their response and was 
intending to bring his complaint to the ombudsman service. Transunion reiterated the answer 
it had already given him and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Mr B told our investigator that the error Transunion had made had caused him a great deal 
of distress and embarrassment as his brother was now aware of his high indebtedness. He 
said this has put a strain on his relationship with his brother, as he had previously given his 
brother money to help by his first home. And he believes his brother is now putting himself 
under pressure to repay the money causing tension between them which wasnt there 
before. He has also told us that he feels his standing as head of the family has been 
compromised because his mother and sister are also acting differently towards him now, I 
think this is as a result of his brother sharing his concern with them.
Mr B was in the process of applying for a mortgage to move home during this time and his 
mortgage provider use Transunion as a credit reference agency to perform their checks. 
They were able to see Mr Bs brothers mortgage details showing on Mr Bs report, this 
delayed his mortgage application as they felt he was withholding information from them.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint in summary he said:
Its clear Transunion failed to carry out appropriate basic checks as they merge credit 
files belonged to different individuals with significantly different details.
Given the significant level of upset distress embarrassment and worry, as described 
above, that was unduly, caused to Mr B along with the lasting long-term impact 
Transunion should pay Mr B £500 in compensation
Transunion should also provide Mr B with a letter explaining what happened so he 
can show it to his mortgage provider, should he need to.
Transunion replied to the investigator making a counteroffer of £250, they didnt give an 
explanation as to why they felt this was reasonable or why they felt £500 was unreasonable. 
But said if Mr B didnt want to accept then they would like an ombudsman to review it.
Mr B didnt want to accept Transunions offer of £250. So the matter has now been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me.
There is no dispute between either party that Transunion made an error in merging Mr B and 
his brothers credit files. So all thats left for me to consider in this decision is how much 
compensation Transunion should pay Mr B.
The short-term effect of Transunions error on Mr B is the initial embarrassment he felt that 
his brother had seen his personal financial details. And the delay in his mortgage application 
due to his brothers information being on his file. Theres also the inconvenience that Mr B 
was put to in dealing with this. 
I consider the longer-term effects on Mr B a much more severe. I say this because although 
Transunion have corrected the error its not possible for Mr B to be back in the position he 
was in with his family prior to his brother seen his details. He has already explained the 
embarrassment he felt that his brother now knew he was indebted to credit cards and 
overdrafts. But beyond that its damaged their relationship and his standing within the family. 
He has told us that he was considered the head of the family, the person his family members 
would turn to for help and advice. But since his family have found out about his financial 
status, they feel an undue pressure to help him and this is causing tension within his family, 
making him feel uncomfortable when he is around them.
Its hard to put a financial figure on something that could potentially take months or years to 
change if at all. But thinking about the error that was made, the length of time Transunion 
took to put things right, the short-term and long-term impact caused to Mr B I think £500 is a 
fair amount to acknowledge the distress Transunion has caused.
Putting things right
Transunion should pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by their 
errors.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
Transunion International UK Limited, and now require it to put things right as described 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman