DRN-1602999
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was taken 
out during a phone call when Mr A applied for an unsecured loan. It covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A didnt agree. 
His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
The PPI was of no useful benefit and Mr A wasn't given information about it.
If Mr A didn't want the PPI, he would have had to ask for a new loan agreement 
which might have suggested that he wouldn't be approved for a new loan 
without PPI.
Mr A had no means of making the loan repayments if he couldn't work, so he couldn't 
have covered the policy's deferral period. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
I cant be sure exactly what was said during the phone call. Nationwide cant provide a 
recording of the call or a copy of the script which wouldve been used. This isnt surprising 
given it took place so long ago. But I've taken into account the call scripts which were used 
around this time and I can see that the optional nature of the PPI was made clear, so I think 
it's likely that this was the case here.
Ive seen the loan agreement which was sent to Mr A. The agreement wasnt binding on him 
until he signed it. So, he had the opportunity to consider the content of the agreement  
including the PPI  before he agreed to it. The agreement described the insurance as 
optional. So, overall, I think Nationwide made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, although I can understand why he cant remember this given it took 
place so long ago.
I've taken into account what Mr A's representative says about him needing to ask for a new 
loan agreement if he didn't want the PPI. But there's nothing to suggest he needed the 
PPI for the loan to be approved, so its comments don't change my conclusion.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But it did have to provide Mr A with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about taking the PPI.
Mr A was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The cost of the PPI and the interest Mr A needed to pay on the premium was set out in the 
loan agreement paperwork which Mr A signed before the loan was agreed. So I think Mr 
A would have known how much the PPI was going to cost.
Mr A repaid the loan early. But he received a premium refund in proportion to the upfront 
costs, which was fair.
In the event of a successful claim, the policy would have paid out after the first 30 days. This 
isn't unusual and I think Mr A would have been able to use his final salary payment to meet a 
month's payment if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident or if he'd become 
unemployed.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appeared to have wanted this type of 
cover. I think it unlikely Mr A would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman