DRN-3985139
The complaint
Mr L says CASLP Ltd is responsible for the negligent operation and management of a 
commercial property interest held in his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and that this 
has caused him financial detriment.
What happened
In 2003 Mr L accepted a recommendation from his financial adviser to switch funds from two 
personal pensions into a SIPP with CASLP (trading as Merchant Investors). He transferred 
around £210,000, which was to be invested in two commercial properties in broadly equal 
amounts. His complaint relates to what happened in relation to one of these properties, 
which Ill refer to as the retail building.
In March 2004, an application was made to establish a syndicated property fund. Mr L 
wanted to be a member. The syndicate purchased a retail building freehold for just over £2 
million. The minimum investment for syndicate members was said to be £50,000. The 
maximum was £100,000. Syndicate members could exercise a vote in relation to certain 
relevant matters, such as the extension or otherwise of the period of investment. And 
members were bound by majority decision.
At the time the retail building was purchased, the main tenant was a bank. It paid around 
£123,000 in rent per year and had 13.5 years remaining on its tenancy. Rent reviews were 
held every five years, with the next due in December 2007. Nearly £1.1 million was available 
from members of the syndicate (towards the purchase and to provide some liquidity to the 
scheme). And to complete the transaction, borrowing of £1.3 million was arranged with a 
financier. The initial investment term was seven years. The purchase of the retail building 
was completed in August 2004.
Ultimately, Mr L acknowledged his interest in the retail building hadnt been a success. When 
it was sold for around £860,000 in March 2020, the value of his initial investment of around 
£100,000 had reduced to around £77,000.
But Mr L thought CASLPs management of his investment had made his position far worse. 
On 2 December 2020, he complained about what had happened, raising several concerns 
including:
- That the syndicate had been set up for a seven-year term, but the sale of the property 
didnt take place until March 2020, and throughout this time fees, charges and expenses 
continued to be deducted from his fund.
- At the end of the seven-year term syndicate members were strongly advised to extend and 
warned that penalties would be incurred in the event of a syndicate member choosing to 
leave. This advice was repeated subsequently.
- Over the period the value of the property fell and the decision was eventually taken to sell. 
But efforts were unsuccessful because the price sought was too high. There was a lack of 
information made available to syndicate members throughout the process.
- Despite the property being subject to upward only rent reviews every 5 years, no increase 
in the original rent was ever secured.
- The property was subject to a mortgage which was due to be cleared by expiration of the 
head lease in 2017, but this didnt happen. This led to action by the bank initially to force a 
sale and ultimately the agreement of costly refinancing arrangements.
- Syndicate members were assured as the head lease was coming to an end, the existing 
tenant would be remaining. But this changed late in the day impacting the prospect of selling 
the property.
- The issue of dilapidations dealt with at the end of the lease led to further fees, significant 
delays due to negotiations with the former tenant and loss of rent. The costs were eventually 
paid by the scheme's funds upfront to enable leases for the sub tenant and the new tenant to 
be completed. Earlier action wouldve reduced fees and more rent wouldve been received.
- Throughout the life of the syndicate the valuation of the property was far too high. The 
eventual sale was approximately 40% of the purchase price paid 16 years earlier. Yet fees 
based on over optimistic valuations were deducted throughout.
- Inflated valuations were also used when some members of the syndicate chose to leave, 
leading to overly generous transfer values further exacerbating the cost to those who 
remained to the end.
CASLP rejected Mr Ls complaint on 10 March 2021, responding in the following terms:
Direct investment by a group of investors in a commercial property is a permitted type of 
investment in a SIPP. Our records indicate that your syndicated property purchase has been 
governed and managed in line with the syndicate agreement and rules. Whilst we 
understand your concerns about the management of your syndicated property purchase, we 
have followed and adhered to correct governance and processes.
Mr L approached this Service. An investigator reviewed his case and didnt uphold most of 
his complaint points. He noted CASLP hadnt been involved in advising him on the 
investment. He thought hed been aware of many of the risks that materialised with his 
interest in the retail building, such as a lack of diversification and liquidity. And he considered 
it had been entitled to rely on the professional services it commissioned, for example in 
relation to valuations.
But the Investigator did uphold one element of Mr Ls complaint. He thought CASLP was 
responsible for ensuring the loan on the retail property had been repaid at the point the head 
lease expired in 2017. But this hadnt happened.
Neither party agreed with the Investigator. For example, Mr L reiterated that had earlier 
action been taken to put right the dilapidations through the scheme paying for these upfront, 
time saved wouldve meant reduced fees and increased rents received. CASLP thought the 
Investigators conclusion suggested it shouldve taken alternative action which wouldve led 
to worse outcomes for the investors.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators findings and conclusions Mr Ls case was 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. Im 
grateful to both parties for their respective additional submissions. Ive considered these 
carefully in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CASLP for Mr L. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like CASLP. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L signed a subscription agreement and risk deed form, as well as a syndicated property 
agreement, in respect of his investment in the retail building on 31 March 2004. These 
documents are important because they set out in some detail how the arrangement would 
work.
For example, there were several parties involved with the retail building Mr L had taken an 
interest in. These included a fund manager, managing agent and valuer. Other parties such 
as the tenants of the property and their own professional representatives added further 
layers.
Such arrangements for commercial properties are not unusual, but it can mean the operation 
and management of schemes is necessarily more complicated. And maintaining effective 
communications is sometimes more of a challenge. I think CASLP set out clearly what the 
respective roles and responsibilities of the key parties would be.
CASLP were responsible for putting in place appropriately qualified professional services. 
For example, in March 2009 it appointed Attivo Property Limited as managing agent for the 
retail building. It later changed its name to PHG Property (PHG). It was a member of the 
Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
PHGs responsibilities included management of the property; maintenance of the property; 
maintenance of records and accounts; the collection of rents and other monies due; payment 
of relevant outgoings; site inspections; conduct of initial rent review appraisals; liaison with tenants and authorities; and marketing the property as required. PHG in turn procured 
certain specialist services, for example qualified surveyors to conduct rent negotiations and 
to deliver independent valuations and reports.
I should note that the advice provided by PHG and the professional services it delivered are 
not regulated in terms of the jurisdiction of this Service. However, CASLP is responsible to 
the extent it appointed such businesses. It had to do so with due care. Further, while I think it 
was reasonable for CASLP to rely on the expert opinions it received, I wouldve expected it 
to have challenged any poor service or obvious errors in respect of those professional 
service providers it had contracted with.
I note Mr Ls original complaint points related either directly or indirectly to the risks of his 
investment. For example, the delay in sale of the retail building beyond the initial seven-year 
term; the falling market value of the asset and the revenue stream it was able to command 
over time; and issues with securing new tenants.
The agreements Mr L signed in 2004 set out the specific risks he was exposing himself to by 
investing in the retail building. For example, on the face of the subscription agreement it 
stated:
investment in commercial property involves significant risk, that the fund will be exposed 
to higher volatility and/or risk than other funds of the company because of a smaller spread 
of investments and/or greater risks inherent in the actual investments selected and that 
these risks will be increased if the property is untenanted or if there is gearing.
Further, the fact sheet he saw drew out some of these risks in more detail in relation to 
future performance; liquidity; members of the syndicate leaving and penalties applying; any 
future downturn in the UK commercial property market; and changing regulation.
So, I think Mr L knowingly accepted the risks. In setting out his complaint to CASLP he 
acknowledged the holding hadnt been a success. But he felt that its operation and 
management of the investment had made things much worse.
A number of Mr Ls complaint points relate to services provided by PHG and some of its sub-
contractors. For example, the advice to the syndicate not to sell after the initial seven-year 
period was up, and in subsequent years; the valuations provided for the retail building; the 
approach to marketing the property; and the workings of the rent reviews.
Taking the example of the recommendation for syndicate members to hold onto their interest 
in the retail building in 2011, at the point when the initial seven-year term was up. Bearing in 
mind the purchase price of the property in 2004 had been around £2.1 million, I understand it 
was put up for sale at £1.85 million. But a decision was taken to withdraw it when it became 
clear the asking price was significantly above market expectation. It was also established 
that the rent being secured on the asset was in excess of market rents.
Presumably for the reasons set out, the recommendation from PHG and/or its agents was 
for members of the syndicate to hold onto their investment. The alternative wouldve been to 
have crystalised a capital loss on the retail building and foregone a healthy stream of rental 
income. Given the prevailing conditions, the case to hold the investment appears 
reasonable.
Recommendations wouldve been made to all members of the property syndicate. Mr L had 
an opportunity to have voted whether to accept that advice, or not. And as provided for by 
the syndicated property agreement, hed accepted that he would be bound by the majority 
decision of members.Im not going to set out the position for each and every transaction and decision point 
between 2004 and the ultimate sale of the property in 2020. Suffice to say that what Ive 
seen in relation to most of these matters doesnt provide sufficient evidence to suggest 
something was obviously wrong in general with the professional services CASLP had put in 
place.
I think what Mr L experienced with his investment was the impact of specific events such as 
the credit crunch in 2008, and other trends such as reduced footfall on the high street, 
which combined to impact on the prospects of the asset he held. These eroded the capital 
value of the property which reduced from £2.1 million in 2004 to as low as £1.2 million in 
2017. Further, the sale in 2020 only realised around £0.9 million.
Ive considered various other aspects of Mr Ls complaint and I find that there is merit in 
some of these. In particular his concerns about the approach taken by CASLP when 
members of the syndicate wanted to leave the scheme. Reviewing the transaction listing 
provided this appears to have happened twice. In July 2013 when £167,000 was withdrawn 
from the fund and again in September 2016 when £51,000 was switched.
There are clear terms and conditions in documents such as the Syndicated Property 
Agreement and the Personal Pension Portfolio, about what CASLPs approach should be if a 
member of the syndicate decides to leave. Section 3 of the former, Termination, 
continuation, death and early transfer, includes the following provisions:
3.1.2 Provided that there is sufficient liquidity to meet a claim on the fund then in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the Personal Pension Portfolio the value of the syndicate 
members share of the fund on a transfer or on taking benefitsbefore a realisation 
datewill be reducedThe reduction will be effectedby reducing the price of units by 
10%...Any reduction shall be subject to a maximum total reduction in the unit price for this 
purpose of 20% except that we reserve the right to apply a higher maximum if in our sole 
opinion, this is justified by property market conditions
3.1.3 Any payment from the fund will be made by reducing any cash balance which is held 
as an asset of the fund and has not been earmarked to fulfil a contractual obligation. If there 
is insufficient such cash [CASLP] will instruct the fund manager to liquidate sufficient of the 
non-property assets of the fund, excluding any assets earmarked to fulfil a contractual 
obligation, to meet the requirement. If there are insufficient such cash and/or non-property 
assets to meet a payment due from the fund [CASLP] will notify the agent in writing.
3.1.4 If after six months from the date of written notifications to the agent there is still not 
sufficient liquidity in the fund to make the payment [CASLP] will instruct the property fund 
manager to sell the property.
I think these provisions make clear CASLP needed to maintain a grip on the overall 
investment proposition, albeit with the professional support of those it appointed to provide 
such, so that it could understand the impact on the scheme and syndicate members of key 
events, such as a members wish to disinvest.
I note that in June 2013 PHG had commissioned a valuation report for the retail building. 
Key amongst its findings were that the capital value of the property had been eroded. The 
market value was said to be about £1.37 million. This maintained a trend established since 
2006 for significant annual reductions in value. Further, the report established that the rent 
receivable at that time of about £123,000 per annum was substantially above what would be 
achievable in the market of around £87,000.CASLP was in receipt of the report when it permitted the switch of a member or members 
from the syndicate. This was a decision that doesnt appear to have been supported by the 
fundamentals of the retail building investment.
I say this because in 2013 the prospect for rent receipts for the foreseeable future were poor 
 the best the syndicate could reasonably expect was to maintain income until the end of the 
lease of its main tenant in 2017. That best case would yield around £614,000. As at the end 
of 2012 the syndicate had cash reserves of about £ 282,000. From these assets of £896,000 
it had to meet outstanding borrowing of £718,000, which was due to be cleared by 
November 2017. In basic terms, that left just around £178,000 for the syndicate to draw on 
until 2017.
It was against this backdrop that CASLP facilitated the switch of a member or members from 
the syndicate taking £167,000 from the fund. This left a balance of around £11,000. Bearing 
in mind annual costs to the syndicate including commission payments, managing agent fees, 
SIPP fees, business rates and insurance, and taken together with ad hoc costs arising, such 
as valuation fees, based on the evidence Ive seen, it shouldve been clear to CASLP that to 
allow the departure of the member or members in July 2013 effectively exhausted scheme 
liquidity. Indeed this is what transpired.
Mr L says he was told the mortgage on the commercial property would be cleared by the 
expiration of the head lease in 2017, but this didnt happen. He notes the syndicate was 
faced with a forced sale at auction, which was averted by arranging a further bank facility 
while incurring additional professional fees.
Its not in dispute that the original loan agreement was due to be cleared in November 2017. 
But due to liquidity issues this wasnt possible, therefore the loan with the financier was 
extended twice to allow time for the sale. In summary the loan details on the retail property 
were as follows:
- Loan 1 - £1.3 million which ran between August 2004 and November 2017. At this 
date around £200,000 was outstanding, but there was insufficient liquidity in the 
scheme to pay this.
- Loan 2  a facility for £200,000 was made available on an interest only basis 
between November 2017 and October 2019. This left £140,000 outstanding.
- Loan 3  a final facility for £140,000 also on an interest only basis, from October 
2019 until the sale was executed in March 2020.
In his view the Investigator concluded:
I understand that there was no liquidity in the fund to make the necessary payment at the 
end of the loan agreement, and the value of the property was such that a loss would have 
been incurred had it been sold.
But ultimately, the loan had been made to CASLP; it was they who were responsible for 
ensuring it was repaid. So I think the failure to ensure it was cleared by the required date, 
was a failing on their part. A further consequence of this failing, was the need to list the 
property for auction twice, incurring further costs in the process.
In responding to the Investigators view CASLP said:
Ultimately, the syndicate would be responsible for the repayment of the loan by utilising the 
cash funds available. As we know, at the end of the [interest only] loan term, the syndicate 
did not hold enough cash to repay the £400k [interest only] loan in full. This was due to 
market conditions and the withdrawal of members from the syndicate which decreased the amount of cash available. Therefore, a new loan arrangement was required for a proportion 
of the outstanding loan.
CASLP also said:
The loan agreement specified that the loan was to be repaid by 24 December 2017. By that 
date, there was still an amount outstanding. There was not enough liquidity in the fund to 
make the necessary payment at the end of the loan agreement, and due to market 
conditions the value of the property was such that a loss would have been incurred by the 
members had it been sold and the outstanding Interest Only element paid off. Therefore, 
faced with having to sell the property at a loss, a new loan arrangement was agreed so that 
the members could keep the property to be sold at a later date, when market conditions 
were more favourable. This scenario is an inherent risk associated with this type of 
investment.
I agree in broad terms with most of the Investigators findings and conclusions. But Id 
express matters here slightly differently. I dont think it was CASLPs responsibility to ensure 
the loan taken out by the syndicate in 2004 to assist with the purchase of the retail building 
was repaid. This was clearly an obligation on the syndicate. And matters of investment 
performance are relevant. As already rehearsed, market conditions meant the holding wasnt 
successful. That wasnt within CASLPs control.
What was CASLPs responsibility was to safeguard the interests of the pension scheme and 
its members. For example, had it not arrived at an agreement with the financier in the period 
between 2018-2020, a forced sale/repossession wouldve been a real prospect. That 
wouldve had a consequent impact on value achieved for syndicate members. So I can see 
an argument it fulfilled its role at this point.
The problem for CASLP, as already established, was that it doesnt appear to have fulfilled 
its responsibilities under the Syndicated Property Agreement when it facilitated a member or 
members of the syndicate to switch out of the arrangement.
From the available information its unclear what action CASLP took to assess the impact of 
scheme leavers in 2013 and 2016 in terms of cash flow and liquidity implications, looking 
forward to the 2017 mortgage maturity date. Its unclear how it weighed and arrived at the 
decision not to proceed to sell the property at each trigger point, as provided for in the 
Syndicated Property Agreement. And its unclear what it had modelled in terms of the 
implications for remaining scheme members.
From the available information its also unclear how syndicate members were fully informed 
about leavers from the scheme, and particularly the impact on the cash-flow forecast for the 
investment and liquidity requirements, given proximity to the 2017 mortgage repayment date. 
Its unclear what information was presented to them, how and when. Did they have the 
necessary information to support any decision making about whether to endorse PHG 
recommendations to continue to hold the property, and whether or not to leave the scheme?
In my provisional decision I said that if CASLP was to mount a compelling challenge to my 
decision it would need to provide much more evidence in relation to these material 
considerations. It hasnt done so.
I also had a request for Mr L to provide me with further evidence. I noted his syndicate voting 
decision in 2015 when PHG conveyed a recommendation to syndicate members to hold the 
property for a further three years. He voted in favour of the advice. And in August 2018 the 
same recommendation was made and Mr L voted in the same way. At that time he also indicated his desire to remain in the syndicate rather than leave it. Mr L said the following 
about his voting decisions over the lifetime of the investment:
Basically I chose always to follow the recommendations of the managing agents Attivo. I 
was not at any time told that other members had left the syndicate or that there was a 
potential liquidity problem. It was not until my financial advisor took up the case in 2018/19 
that I learned members had left the syndicate. I also understood and had been told the 
mortgage would be cleared and the property debt free at the expiration of the lease at the 
end of 2017 which was also a relevant factor in my voting decisions.
On balance, based on the available evidence, Ive concluded CASLPs actions 
fundamentally undermined the liquidity of the retail building scheme when it facilitated the 
withdrawal of a member or members in 2013. That led to a chain of events that shouldve 
been foreseeable, such as the failure to clear the original loan by the end of 2017 and the 
need to seek a new facility from 2018. All of which led to increased costs on the syndicate.
When facilitating the withdrawal of syndicate members, who appear to have been motivated 
to leave given the penalties and fees they faced on exit, based on the information available 
to it at the time, I think that in order to protect the interests of other syndicate members, 
CASLP shouldve invoked the process to sell the property from 2013.
Ive seen correspondence between the financier of the retail building scheme and CASLP 
from during 2018, which I think is instructive. As CASLP sought to negotiate a new loan 
facility and stave off a forced sale or repossession of the property the financier wrote to it in 
the following terms:
Based on current information, it seems clear that the Fund will not be able to meet its 
obligations under the current Facility Agreement, as there are insufficient monies to maintain 
the account within the Overdraft Facility following the agreed reduction which will be applied 
on 1 December 2018 (or the next Business Day thereafter). This will effectively bring the 
agreement to an end, and if the sum outstanding was not repaid in full, could result in action 
being taken by the Bank to enforce the security it holds over the Charged Property.
There is no clarity on cash flows over the coming months; the Bank has no real 
understanding of what payments are due out and how these will be met, and whether the 
Fund will be able to meet its obligations in respect of property costs, Fund costs, bank 
interest etc.
There is no certainty as to when formal leases will be signed, what lease terms will be 
agreed, what cash will come into the Fund and when.
It appears that the Fund does not have sufficient cash to carry out the proposed works on 
the ground floor and nor is there any certainty as to how long the works would take and 
when [the new main tenant] would take up their potential tenancy and start to pay rent.
It is unclear as to the current value of the property (last valuation for the Bank was 
undertaken in 2012). In the light of the above concerns, the Bank is not willing to provide 
additional facilities for the Fund.
Assuming that the Bank were willing to provide a new temporary Overdraft facility at 
£140,000 (requiring the Fund to meet interest costs), cash would still appear to be a 
concern. There is currently c.£15k of headroom in the facility and c.£5k on account with 
CASLP. £20k is unlikely to be sufficient to undertake the works required on the ground floor 
and fire escape pending settlement of dilapidations and the Fund also needs to meet 
business rates of c.£3.3kpm, interest c£0.7kpm and an annual fund valuation due by year 
end (costs to be met by the Fund).
A detailed cashflow forecast covering all anticipated income & expenditure for the next 6 
months is required, and consideration given as to whether it is realistic to assume that dilapidations can be concluded, re-letting achieved, the property taken to market / auction 
and a sale achieved within 6 months, or whether cash constraints are such that an early sale 
is appropriate.
The Fund therefore needs to consider its position carefully, and provide the Bank with the 
cashflow forecast and the Funds repayment proposals within 28 days.
We know that an agreement was reached between CASLP and the financier, which 
ultimately resulted in the sale of the retail building in 2020 for £860,000.
I note one of Mr Ls arguments was around the time taken by CASLP to deal with 
dilapidations. I think the matter here is complicated. For example, we know the main tenant 
at the retail building had been a bank. Its long lease came to an end in December 2017. 
After this it was holding over, meaning it remained in situ and paying rent, but this didnt 
provide certainty for any of the parties.
To achieve certainty, in September 2017 PHG arranged for a Section 25 notice to be served 
ending the banks current tenancy with effect from April 2018. This was a legal requirement. 
The document made proposals to the bank for a new agreement at a lower rent of £110,000 
per annum. There was some to and fro between the parties as negotiations unfolded. But by 
the end of January 2018 the bank decided it wouldnt be taking a new lease.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think CASLP or PHG were at fault here. They tried 
to secure the then existing main tenant, but in what was perhaps a reflection of general 
market conditions and the particular requirements of the bank, those efforts failed.
The situation with the main tenant necessarily had a knock on effect to other matters. For 
example the property had to be assessed for dilapidations. A specialist firm had to be put in 
place. It led the process of assessment and then negotiations with the former tenant about 
payments to be made to make good the property. It also had to assess and make 
recommendations in relation to compliance with building and fire regulations.
These actions in turn impacted on decision making around the timing of tendering for all the 
works required and then project management of these to completion. This had an impact on 
being able to secure another tenant for the main part of the building. This was required to 
achieve the best selling price for the retail building. And all of these matters had to be 
considered in the context of the liquidity of Mr Ls pension scheme and any necessary 
financing arrangement to avoid a forced sale of the property, which was being actively 
threatened.
Theres no debate matters here took a long time to finalise. The bank left the property at the 
end of April 2018. A schedule of dilapidations was served on the former tenant by June 
2018, but it seems putting things right along with other necessary works wasnt completed 
until August 2019. Negotiations about the claim were still ongoing in September 2019 
between the surveyors representing the former main tenant and the syndicates interests. 
Agreement was finally reached in December 2019 when the bank agreed to pay a 
substantial claim for £85,500.
I understand why Mr L thinks CASLP shouldve instructed its professional contractors to start 
building works immediately the former main tenant had vacated. But this was a complicated 
matter with lots of moving parts, several parties involved, key dependencies in play and 
significant constraints. A good example of this is the disposition of the financier of the 
original loan made to the syndicate to complete the purchase of the retail building in 2004.It seems clear from the correspondence with the financier, CASLP had to be mindful of the 
impact on liquidity of the scheme if it authorised works on the retail building to take place 
before a successful substantial claim for dilapidations had been agreed, given the lack of 
headroom available and the financiers position on these matters.
I think the process of putting right the retail building after the main tenant had left was a 
complicated matter for the reasons Ive established. But Ive also concluded these were 
added to and exacerbated by liquidity issues experienced by the fund, and that was 
CASLPs responsibility in this case.
Given my earlier conclusions about CASLPs management of leavers from the scheme in 
2013, the issues around delays in having the retail building ready to receive a new main 
tenant becomes somewhat a second order matter. Thats because Ive concluded, its more 
likely than not the property shouldve been readied for sale from 2013 and the syndicate 
ultimately wound-up.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failings which I 
hold CASLP Ltd responsible for.
Im sure both parties will appreciate redress isnt often a scientific matter. And Im conscious 
of the need to avoid the benefit of hindsight. Nevertheless, I believe my proposals are fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
If CASLP Ltd had done everything it shouldve, Ive concluded its more likely than not the 
syndicate for the retail property shouldve been wound-up following the member or members 
request in 2013 to switch their funds away from the scheme, as provided for in the 
Syndicated Property Agreement. Because it shouldve been clear at this point withdrawal of 
funds on such a scale would fundamentally undermine the schemes liquidity.
So I require CASLP Ltd to carry out a calculation to assess what, if any, loss Mr L has 
incurred. Firstly, it needs to find the closing value of his investment in the retail building, after 
all costs have been deducted. This will be value A.
It should then undertake a calculation to find the notional value of his investment had it 
initiated action in 2013 to have wound-up the syndicate following the fund switch request. 
The figure will necessarily need to take into account a contemporaneous value for the 
property and omit relevant income streams and expenditures arising after the relevant date 
(the assumed point of sale). It is also appropriate to take into account any notional costs that 
wouldve arisen from such action, such as solicitors fees, marketing and auction costs.
CASLP Ltd will need to make assumptions based on relevant market evidence from the time 
about matters such as the realisable value of the retail building and how long it wouldve 
taken to sell. It will need to rely on scheme rules and normal practice to determine matters 
such as whether the members who left the syndicate in 2013 wouldve been permitted to do 
so in advance of winding-up, or alternatively once a decision had been taken about the 
viability of the investment, all members wouldve been treated in the same manner. 
Whatever approach it takes will need to be demonstrably fair and reasonable.
CASLP Ltd will need to add annual interest at 8% simple to this sum from the point of sale 
until the point at which Mr Ls actual funds were made available to him. This will be value B.Im not aware of the detailed position regarding any additional contributions Mr L made to his 
investment. Similarly, I dont know if hes withdrawn any benefits. After confirming the 
detailed position, then the value CASLP obtains or the calculations it makes should assume 
these adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Ls 
investment and the equivalent closing value of his investment, will be his basic financial loss 
that CASLP needs to redress. That is to say, if B is larger than A there has been a loss and 
redress is owed to Mr L. But if A is larger than B Mr L hasnt incurred a financial loss as a 
result of what happened.
CASLP Ltd needs to settle the redress within 28 days of confirmation Mr L has accepted my 
final decision. After this it will need to add 8% simple annual interest until payment is made.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CASLP considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr L how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
If paying compensation into Mr L s SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance, then it should pay his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional deduction should be calculated using Mr L s marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Its assumed he is a basic rate taxpayer, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr L 
wouldve been able to take tax-free cash, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
CASLP Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr L in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I now require CASLP Ltd to put 
things right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman