DRN-3028208
The complaint
Mr O complains that Covea Insurance Plc avoided his motor policy (treated it like it never 
existed) and refused to pay his claim following a theft. Mr O also complains Covea have 
refused to pay for damage he says it caused when collecting and storing his car after it was 
recovered.
What happened
Mr O took out a motor policy with Covea over the phone. When his car was stolen, he called 
Covea to make a claim. During this call, Covea did an online driving licence check, and 
found two speeding tickets given in 2019 which Mr O hadnt declared. 
Covea said hed answered the question it asked about motoring convictions incorrectly. And 
it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to treat 
Mr Os policy as though it never existed, meaning Covea wouldnt meet his claim. It 
explained if Mr O had declared these two motoring convictions, in addition to the one he did 
declare from 2016, then it wouldnt have been prepared to offer any cover. As it treated this 
as a careless misrepresentation, this meant itd refund Mr Os premiums.
Mr O was also unhappy with damage he says was caused by Covea after his car had been 
recovered  basing this on a report saying the car was in a good condition with no reported 
damage when it was collected. But, later on, he was told there were around £4,000 worth of 
repairs that were needed.
On this point Covea said itd looked at the report which said no or minimal damage, and 
spoken to a senior engineer, who concluded the damage listed was consistent with a theft 
claim, Covea added the senior engineer explained repairs of around £4,000 are minimal in 
insurance terms when the market value of the car is around £27,000. So, it didnt uphold this 
part of Mr Os complaint.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our Investigator didnt think it should be upheld.  They 
explained they thought Covea had acted fairly in treating Mr Os policy like it didnt exist and 
agreed with Coveas evidence that the damage appeared to be theft related.
Mr O doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
said he felt our Investigator hadnt considered any of the facts presented in his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theft claim, and avoiding the policy
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
neglected to tell it about his two motoring convictions in 2019. It felt this was a careless 
misrepresentation.
Mr O said he told the broker about the convictions, so Ive listened to the renewal call in 
2020 which was Mr Os first opportunity to tell Covea about them. In this call, hes asked if 
anythings changed, and he says no nothings changed. Given he had been given two 
motoring convictions for speeding, and had previously had one which he had declared, I 
think he should have known to declare them when renewing his policy.
Towards the end of the call Covea tell him theyre going to post him out some documents 
including a statement of fact and ask him to check everything to make sure its correct. A 
statement of fact records various pieces of information for Mr O. This did state Mr Os 
conviction from 2016 which hed previously declared, but not the two in 2019. So, even if 
Mr O did tell Covea when he renewed his policy about these convictions, which as Ive said 
above, I cant hear that he did, then he should have realised when checking the statement of 
fact that these hadnt been noted. 
Taking all of that into account, I think Mr O failed to take reasonable care to disclose his two 
convictions from 2019.
Having established this, I need to consider whether Mr Os misrepresentation was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. What I mean by this is would Covea have done anything 
different, had Mr O told it about the convictions  if it wouldnt have done anything different, 
then Covea would need to meet Mr Os claim.
Covea have shown us its underwriting criteria. I cant share it as its commercially sensitive, 
but it shows that had Mr O declared the two convictions then it wouldnt have offered him 
insurance at all. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Covea has said Mr Os misrepresentation was careless. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mr O was deliberately misleading Covea when taking out the policy, so Im satisfied Coveas 
decision to treat Mr Os misrepresentation as careless is fair. 
As Im satisfied Mr Os misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Covea have treated the policy as though it never existed, said they wont meet the claim 
Mr O made, and have refunded him his premiums.These actions are in line with the remedies CIDRA allows Covea to take, and I think theyre 
reasonable under the circumstances  as Covea wouldnt have insured Mr O if hed declared 
the correct information.
Overall then, I think for the claim, and avoiding the policy, Covea have acted fairly and 
reasonably in how theyve treated Mr O.
Damage to Mr Os car
Mr O has said when his car was initially collected, the report says his car had no damage  
and that it was in good condition. Covea had collected Mr Os car, before realising it wouldnt 
be dealing with his claim. But after it was taken to his own repairers they assessed around 
£4,000 worth of damage that needed to be paid for. Mr O felt this clearly showed Covea was 
responsible for further damage outside of the theft incident.
Coveas senior engineer said the damage Mr Os repairer had quoted was all consistent with 
a theft claim. In addition, the report said no or minimal damage  not no damage as Mr O 
had said  and they felt £4,000 worth of damage for a theft claim was minimal compared to 
the market value of £27,000. Covea added that a theft claim where this amount of repair 
costs relative to the cars value did show the car was in good condition. It didnt mean the car 
was in good condition generally, it meant the car was in good condition for one that had 
previously been stolen.
I can understand why Mr O would focus on the initial report and think Covea are responsible 
for some damage. It does say the car is in good condition without the context Covea have 
now added, and it does also say no or minimal damage  and, without context, £4,000 
does seem like its not really minimal damage.
I think its important to explain firstly that the report Mr O has taken these comments from 
says This report has been compiled following our image based inspection of this vehicle. 
That means theyve based their comments on the photos provided, rather than a detailed 
physical inspection of the car.
These photos do suggest there isnt that much damage to the car  bar one smashed 
window. For a theft claim, I can see why the senior engineer for Covea would say thats 
minimal damage  often in theft claims cars may be fully burnt out, all windows smashed, 
tyres slashed / removed etc.
The report wasnt initially produced for Mr Os benefit so wont have necessarily considered 
factors important to him or be written with him in mind. It was produced for Covea to base 
their decision on how to treat the claim (before theyd decided to treat the policy as though it 
never existed)  and the report recommended Mr Os car be deemed a total loss. Covea 
have explained this is how it treats theft claims, as it cant know what other damage might 
have been done to the interior of the car without extensive, and costly, investigations.
I think this is supported by Mr Os repair quote. The most expensive item on the repair 
invoice is to supply and fit a telematics control box at nearly £700, and most of the items are 
interior related issues. The report Covea provided to Mr O wouldnt have picked that up, 
because it was based solely on the photos, and if it decided to pay the claim then it was 
looking to treat it as a total loss anyway  meaning it wouldnt need to catalogue all the 
damage, instead itd just be looking at paying Mr O the market value of the car at the time of 
the theft.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied Covea has provided reasonable explanations for 
why its not responsible for the damage to Mr Os car  so I wont be requiring it to meet his costs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman