DRN-2414868
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Moneys decision to block and 
subsequently close his Credit Card account. Mr B doesnt think Virgin Money were entitled to 
block the account in the way they did and would like to know the reason they decided to 
close his account. Mr B would like in the region of £56,000 in compensation.
What happened
Mr B held a Credit Card account with Virgin Money. In March 2020, Virgin Money wrote to 
Mr B and asked him for some information as part of a review. In particular, the letter asked 
for documentary evidence of Mr Bs income/source of wealth for any funds that would have 
been paid to his Virgin Money Credit Card. And for two documents as proof of Mr Bs 
identity. The form asked for the documents to be completed and sent back with the form and 
enclosed envelope. However, an envelope wasnt provided for Mr B to use. The letter also 
confirmed that restrictions could be placed on the account if the information wasnt returned 
within 14 days.
Mr B phoned Virgin Money to explain that a return envelope wasnt provided  and asked for 
an email or postal address to send the documents to. The advisor on the phone explained to 
Mr B that she would send him a new letter with an enclosed envelope. She made Mr B 
aware that information was still required  and that the new letter would confirm what he 
needed to send. Mr B was worried about the restrictions and the advisor reassured him that 
a block wouldnt be placed due to not receiving documents as the first letter stated. But she 
did remind Mr B that a block or restriction can be placed on the account at any time.
Mr B didnt receive a second letter from Virgin Money and therefore assumed nothing further 
was needed.
In April 2020, Virgin Money blocked Mr Bs Credit Card account. At the time, Mr B was 
overseas and found himself stranded due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr B only had his 
Virgin Credit Card on him, as well as another Credit Card which he says he was unable to 
use. And as Mr Bs original flight had been cancelled, and he couldnt use his Virgin Credit 
Card to purchase a new flight, he was unable to travel home. Unfortunately, Mr B also 
caught the Covid-19 virus and had to recover overseas. This meant he incurred medical 
costs.
Mr B raised a complaint to Virgin Money. He was mainly unhappy that he hadnt been 
provided with an email address to send the documents to or been supplied with a return 
envelope. He also thought it was inappropriate for Virgin Money to stop him using his Credit 
Card when his account was in credit by around £400.
In June 2020, Virgin Money responded to Mr B and supplied him with an email address for 
him to send the requested information to. Mr B sent the information the day after  and again 
on 1 July 2020. On 2 July 2020 Virgin Money confirmed theyd received the information  
however Mr Bs account remained blocked.
Mr B brought the complaint to our service and explained he wanted around £56,000 
compensation to put things right. Mr B explained his calculations in the following way:
£421  the credit balance left on his Virgin Money Credit Card;
£500 for the inconvenience caused by Virgin Moneys first issue  not providing him 
with an enclosed envelope or a valid address to return the information required;
£100 per day for accommodation costs from May 2020  July 2020 due to Mr B not 
being able to travel home from overseas;
£500 inconvenience for the time he had to spend overseas;
£50,000 compensation for the emotional distress, inconvenience, romancing charges 
for five hours of phone calls and medical expenses incurred.
Additional interest from the date the dispute arose until its conclusion. 
The investigator who considered Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold it. In summary she thought;
Virgin Money should have provided Mr B with an enclosed envelope or sent him 
another letter when they said they would. But while she recognised this error, she 
didnt think it made an overall difference to the complaint as she found Virgin Money 
were still entitled to block Mr Bs account.
She thought the evidence Virgin Money asked for was reasonable and in line with 
their usual reviews.
Virgin Money were entitled to block Mr Bs account while carrying out their review 
under their regulatory and statutory obligations.
She was satisfied that the block was applied correctly  and that Virgin Money were 
entitled to make a commercial decision to close Mr Bs account in the way they did.
She recognises Mr B wants to know the reason why Virgin Money decided to block 
and close his account  but theyre not obliged to give one. However, she was 
satisfied their reasons were fair.
So, she didnt think Virgin Money needed to do anything to put things right.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider Virgin Money have acted reasonably in the circumstances of the 
complaint. And therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything. Ive explained my decision 
and reasons below.
I trust Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
the right outcome.
The initial request for information
Virgin Money wrote to Mr B in early March 2020 and asked for documentation confirming the 
proof of his income and documents to confirm his identity.I appreciate Mr B doesnt think the information Virgin Money asked for was entirely relevant. 
Mainly because he held a Credit Card account with them. But I disagree. Virgin Money are 
required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and Im pleased 
to see they explained this in the initial letter. 
While I recognise why Mr B doesnt see why his source of wealth is appropriate for a credit 
facility, Mr B is still required to make payments to his Credit Card account. And because of 
that, its appropriate that Virgin Money understand and review where the money is coming 
from. 
Ive also considered that Mr B says Virgin Money already had proof of his identity  but that 
doesnt mean they wont necessarily ask for it again. Its important for banks to keep their 
records updated and Im satisfied Virgin Moneys request was reasonable.
I agree it would have been inconvenient for Mr B to have not received a return envelope as 
part of the request like he should have. And I note that Mr B proactively got in touch with 
Virgin Money to ask where to send the documents to. I think this shows Mr B was willing to 
provide the information as requested. Virgin Money confirmed to Mr B that they would send 
him a new request with an envelope so he could return it  but Mr B didnt receive a new 
one. I agree Virgin Moneys service fell short here. But that doesnt persuade me that the 
complaint should be upheld on this point alone.
While I recognise Mr B says when he didnt receive a second letter he assumed everything 
was ok. But I think Virgin Money made it clear on the phone call that information was still 
outstanding. So while I agree Virgin Money should have sent the letter as they said they 
would  I still think Mr B was aware that information was still required and could have got 
back in touch with Virgin Money prior to his trip overseas where he only planned on taking 
his Virgin Credit Card.
The block
During a phone call between Mr B and Virgin Money, it was agreed that Virgin Money 
wouldnt block Mr Bs account for not receiving the information back within the original 14-
day timeframe. Mr Bs account was subsequently blocked in April 2020  over a month after 
the initial request. Mr B is unhappy about this and thinks Virgin Money blocked it unfairly.
Virgin Money are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Virgin Money were acting 
in line with these obligations when reviewing, and subsequently closing, Mr Bs account.
I recognise Mr B would like to know the reasons why Virgin money took the actions they did 
 and Im aware he believes it is linked to him not providing the information Virgin Money 
asked for, which he states was because he didnt know what address to send them to. Ive 
considered the information Virgin Money has shared with our service and while Im unable to 
share any of this information with Mr B, Im satisfied that Virgin Moneys reasons for blocking 
the account were reasonable. Virgin Money arent obliged to give an explanation when they 
review or block an account. I know this isnt helpful for Mr B as he isnt any wiser as to the 
reasons behind Virgin Moneys actions. But I hope by me reviewing things, this has 
reassured Mr B that Virgin Money havent acted inappropriately.
Mr Bs circumstances
Virgin Money blocked Mr Bs Credit Card account while he was overseas and didnt have 
access to any other money. He also found that his flight home had been cancelled due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and wasnt able to pay for an alternative flight because his Virgin Money Credit Card was blocked. I dont doubt this would have been really difficult for Mr B and I 
empathise with the position he found himself in  especially as he found himself having to 
recover from the illness too. However, I cant fairly hold Virgin Money responsible for the 
position Mr B found himself in. 
Virgin Money blocked Mr Bs account and I havent seen anything to suggest their actions 
were inappropriate. So, while I recognise Mr B couldnt purchase a flight home because of 
Virgin Moneys actions  that doesnt mean their actions were unfair. 
Account closure
When Mr B brought his complaint to our service, his Virgin Money Credit Card account was 
still open  albeit blocked. He told our investigator he didnt want Virgin Money to close his 
account and that if they were likely to make this decision, he wanted to close it himself. 
Subsequently, Virgin Money did make the decision to close the account.
Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive received from Virgin Money, that their actions were 
reasonable. And while I recognise Mr B would have rather closed the account himself  that 
doesnt mean Virgin Money closing it was unfair. Mr B could have chosen to close the 
account at any time  he didnt, and Virgin Money then exercised their own discretion to end 
their relationship with Mr B. Again, Virgin Money dont have to explain the reasons behind 
their decision to Mr B but having reviewed the circumstances and reasons myself, Im 
satisfied with them.
Mr Bs money
Virgin Money refunded the money Mr Bs account was in credit by. However, Mr B thinks 
Virgin Money should pay interest on this amount to reflect the time he was without the funds. 
I only think it would be appropriate for Virgin Money to pay additional interest on this amount 
if I thought theyd done something wrong by holding on to it. And I dont.
The money was held due to the account being blocked as part of Virgin Moneys review. And 
Ive explained above that I consider the review and block was reasonable. Therefore I wont 
be asking Virgin Money to pay any additional money to Mr B.
Overall
To conclude, Im satisfied that Virgin Money blocked, reviewed and subsequently closed Mr 
Bs Credit Card account in line with their legal, regulatory and statutory obligations. While Im 
unable to share the reasons behind their actions with Mr B I consider their actions to be 
reasonable.
I recognise at times the service Virgin Money provided Mr B fell short  specifically when 
they confirmed they would issue him with a new letter and request for relevant 
documentation to assist with their review and didnt. However, I dont believe this had an 
overall impact on the circumstances of the complaint. And thats because I believe even if Mr 
B had received the initial letter with an enclosed envelope, the sequence of events would 
have still followed with the block and subsequent closure.
Mr B found himself overseas and no access to get home due to his Virgin Money Credit 
Card being blocked  he also found himself with unexpected medical bills due to catching 
Covid-19 while overseas. But I cant fairly hold Virgin Money responsible for this and 
therefore dont consider any compensation is due.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman