DRN-3831871
The complaint
Ms J complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund her the amount she lost as 
the result of a scam.
Ms J is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Ms J 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Ms J received a refund from a business that was managing some of her funds 
in May 2021. Shortly after receiving the refund Ms J was approached by several businesses 
offering their investment services.
One of the businesses that approached Ms J was called IGFB (X). X offered Ms J a secure 
investment in cryptocurrency that promised high returns. Persuaded X was a genuine 
business Ms J decided to make an investment.
After making several payments Ms J was approached by another business called OCTAR 
(Y) offering the same services as X. Y appeared genuine and persuaded Ms J to invest with 
it as well.
Ms J was able to see her investments with both businesses via online platforms which 
appeared legitimate.
Ms J made payments to X and Y using her debit card through various cryptocurrency 
exchanges as listed below:
1. 26 May 2021 £50,000 Binance
2. 21 July 2021 £5,362.58 Moonpay
3. 27 July 2021 £3,004.07 Moonpay
4. 30 July 2021 £5,040.81 Moonpay
5. 30 July 2021 £3,753.81 Moonpay
6. 30 July 2021 £3,000 Banxa
7. 19 August 2021 £5,000 Banxa
8. 26 August 2021 £1,700 Gaurdian
9. 28 August 2021 £1,700 Gaurdian
10. 28 August 2021 £1,700 Gaurdian
However, despite requesting withdrawals from the accounts she held with X and Y she did 
not receive any funds and it became clear Ms J had fallen victim to a scam.
Our Investigator considered Ms Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms J 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only option available to Revolut to recover the funds Ms J lost would be via the 
chargeback scheme.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Ms J was dealing with X and Y, which were the businesses that instigated the scams. But 
Ms J didnt make the debit card payments to the scammers directly, she paid separate 
cryptocurrency exchanges (Binance, Moonpay, Banxa and Guardian). This is important 
because Revolut was only able to process chargeback claims against the merchants she 
paid (Binance, Moonpay, Banxa and Guardian), not another party.
The service provided by Binance, Moonpay, Banxa and Guardian would have been to 
convert or facilitate conversion of Ms Js payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance, 
Moonpay, Banxa and Guardian provided the service that was requested; that being the 
purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mrs M paid. As Binance, 
Moonpay, Banxa and Guardian provided the requested service to Ms J any chargeback 
attempt would likely fail.
Ms J has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Binance, Moonpay, Banxa 
and Guardian, so the starting point here is that Ms J is responsible. However, banks and 
other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of 
financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard 
against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have stepped in when Ms J was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The initial payment made by Ms J was for the sum of £50,000 which Ms J has argued is 
significant and irregular when compared to her normal account activity. So Revolut should 
have stepped in to stop the payment.
I have thought about what Ms J has told us but, in the months, leading up to the payments 
Ms J made in relation to the scam she also made other larger payments from her account. 
Payments included a payment of over £45,000 in March 2021, followed in April by two 
payments of £10,000 on the same day, and a payment of £5,000 in April 2021.
While I appreciate these payments were not in relation to cryptocurrency, I think they show it 
was not unusual for Ms J to make large payments (some in the same day) from her account. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention systems didnt pick up 
on unusual activity taking place on Ms Js account when she made the payments related to 
the scam.As I think it was reasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention systems were not triggered by 
the payments I dont think it missed an opportunity to step in and prevent the scam. So, it 
does not have to refund any of the payments Ms J made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman