DRN-3040788
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) misled him about how much his pension would 
be worth at retirement. He would like compensation for the shortfall in funds he expects to 
receive in retirement.
I understand that the original selling agent for the pension - held with another provider - was 
Lloyds. Therefore they are responsible for this complaint. 
What happened
The pension was set up in 1984. Lloyds said that due to the passage of time neither they nor 
the pension provider have any point of sale paperwork available apart from a policy schedule 
and application form. 
Although the advice Mr B received to set up the pension was received in 1984 - which is 
clearly more than six years ago - Lloyds have consented to this service looking at the 
complaint.
Mr B set up his pension in December 1984, when he was 18. The application form stated 
that he would pay £20 per month until his 65th birthday. He chose to invest in the with profits 
fund. The application form said that although Mr B was employed, he didnt have access to 
an occupational pension scheme. 
In 1994, Mr B added extra premiums to his pension. He agreed to pay an additional £60.61 
each month until his 60th birthday. 
In September 2020, Mr B complained that his pension had been mis-sold. He said that hed 
stopped and then restarted his monthly pension payments a few years later. He said that he 
remembered that he was told when starting the pension that he wouldnt need to make any 
further contributions as this policy would set him up for a very comfortable retirement. He 
said that as his retirement age was approaching hed looked at the pension forecast and had 
been astounded at how little his pension was worth when considering how much hed paid in 
and for how long. Mr B didnt feel he would be able to retire on his pension.
Lloyds issued their final response to the complaint in February 2021. They didnt uphold it. 
They said they had limited information about the pension. They said that when it had been 
arranged in 1984 there was no regulatory obligation to retain documentation regarding 
recommendations made for pensions. They also said that the pension had been arranged 
before the provisions of the Financial Services Act 1986 came into force. So at the time of 
the sale there their adviser would simply be required to satisfy a duty of care to his customer 
and not make negligent mis-statements that the customer would rely upon to his or her 
financial detriment. They said that the burden of proving that there was a breach of these 
requirements was with Mr B.
Lloyds said their adviser was unable to provide guarantees. They said theyd found nothing 
to suggest their adviser had provided any guarantees as he wouldnt have been able to 
predict future investment performance with any certainty. But that he wouldve provided an 
illustration showing how much the pension might be worth at Mr Bs selected retirement age. 
They also said that the illustration wouldve been based on the contributions being 
maintained throughout Mr Bs working life. And that the fact that Mr B had taken a break 
from pension contributions for a short while wouldve influenced the fund value. They also 
said their adviser wouldve based the illustration on industry guidance at that time. 
Lloyds also said that the monthly contribution Mr B had decided to pay at the start wouldve 
been set based on how much he could afford and the estimated growth this amount would 
provide at retirement. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He felt that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the pension initially. And that when he resumed contributions to the pension he 
had been advised to keep his existing pension as the costs of starting a new pension would 
be extreme. He also said that hed been advised that his pension was "ticking along just 
fine".
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the advice 
Mr B had been given was reasonable for his circumstances at the time.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I 
know Mr B will be very disappointed by this, so Ill explain why.
First I acknowledge the difficult position Mr B is in. I understand Mr B was relying on this plan 
to fund his retirement and he was expecting a much higher sum. So, I appreciate how 
upsetting it must be for him knowing he has a lower pension. But having said that, I dont 
think Lloyds have treated him unfairly here.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. The sale of the pension to Mr B took place 
almost 40 years ago. So it isnt surprising that there is little documentary evidence from the 
time about how it was sold. I appreciate that Mr B said that he remembers what the adviser 
told him at the time. But I am mindful that even the most careful of memories can, and do, 
fade over such a lengthy period of time.
There is no documentary evidence to persuade me that any recommendation that Lloyds 
mightve given to Mr B to take out the pension in 1984 was inappropriate. At that time, Mr B 
had no access to an occupational pension. And his investment choice - with profits - was 
seen as providing an excellent opportunity for growth over the lifetime of the pension. Ive 
not seen any evidence that Mr B was unable to afford the monthly contributions that he 
agreed to make. And I havent seen anything to make me think that an alternative pension 
plan, or another savings vehicle, mightve been better for his circumstances at the time.
As Lloyds indicated in their final response letter, the illustrations that the adviser wouldve 
produced for the pension wouldve been based on industry guidance at the time. Over the years, the investment performance of pensions like Mr Bs havent matched the reasonable 
investment performance expectations of that time. But when the plans were sold, the 
investment performance that was anticipated was entirely in line with the expectations of the 
regulator. Lloyds, alongside other businesses, were directed by the regulator about how they 
should assess the likely future investment performance of savings. So I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that Lloyds in some way misled Mr B about the amount of pension he 
might receive from the pension contributions he was making. 
Ive been given copies of pension statements for the period from 2017 to 2019. These show 
the amount of pension Mr B might expect, given the contributions he was paying and the 
time to retirement. The figures shown state they arent guaranteed. Therefore I consider that 
it shouldve been clear to Mr B over the years that the amount of pension he would receive 
wasnt guaranteed.  And would probably be lower that what hed expected at the start of the 
pension  before hed taken a break from contributions and before it became clear that 
investment returns hadnt matched those used in the initial illustrations. 
As I stated earlier, Ive not found that Lloyds recommendation to start the plan was 
inappropriate. But even after it became clearer that investment and economic conditions 
meant that those pension amounts were unlikely to be achieved, Mr B continued to 
contribute to the pension. And decided to add to his pension. The fact that Mr B decided to 
pay additional contributions into his plan in 1994 indicates that his 1984 adviser hadnt 
persuaded him that he wouldnt need to make any further contributions into his pension in 
order to have a comfortable retirement. I consider that if Mr B had believed that to be the 
case, he wouldnt have paid the additional contributions.
Mr B also asked this service to consider whether his adviser had acted appropriately when 
he told Mr B that it was better to continue paying into his pension than to start a new plan, 
due to the start-up costs that would involve. 
As our investigator said, this service considers whether the advice was reasonable, given 
there are many different options available and hindsight often plays a part when considering 
what wouldve been the best option. He felt that it was reasonable to suggest that setting up 
a new plan mightve led to start-up costs. And also noted that there would be no guarantee 
that any new plan would outperform the existing pension. Therefore he didnt consider that 
advising Mr B to continue to pay into his pension to save for his retirement was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I agree with our investigator on all these points, and therefore dont consider that the 
secondary advice was unreasonable. 
Our investigator noted that Lloyds werent responsible for the advice to add to the pension. 
And said this showed that a separate adviser from the Lloyds adviser who had 
recommended the pension in 1984 had still felt the pension was appropriate for Mr B. 
In summary, I dont consider the advice that Lloyds provided to Mr B to encourage him to 
start the pension was inappropriate. The advice to start the pension met his objective of 
providing a more comfortable retirement. Im satisfied that if the advice hadnt been given 
and Mr B hadnt saved for retirement through the recommended pension its likely his 
retirement benefits would be in a worse position than they are now. So Mr B is in a better 
position after receiving the advice than before it. The pension contributions he paid 
benefitted from tax relief. And the investment was tax efficient. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Lloyds provided misleading information about the expected returns that 
might be achieved. And even though those returns havent been achieved, I cant fairly and 
reasonably conclude that Mr B is worse off due to starting the pension. I also dont consider that the information Lloyds mightve provided in the early years of the 
pension reasonably bound them to pay the amounts it illustrated to Mr B. Therefore I dont 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman