DRN-3200589
The complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Capital Professional 
Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd (Ascot Lloyd) to transfer two pension plans to a self invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in 2011. He says he wasnt made aware of the guarantees that 
were attached to one of the policies which he says he wouldnt have given up if hed been 
made aware of them. 
What happened
In 2001 Mr S transferred the deferred benefits from his Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) to a section 32 plan. The money was invested across four equity funds. It was noted 
that the plan was required to pay a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) at state pension 
age, which was no less than a cash sum benefit of £9,306.78 and a total yearly annuity 
payment of £8,272.65. 
In July 2011 Mr S met with Harvard Financial Management  now part of Ascot Lloyd, which 
is who Ill refer to throughout the rest of this decision, to discuss his retirement planning. The 
adviser noted that Mr Ss section 32 plan  as well as a personal pension plan (PPP) that 
held protected rights benefits hadnt performed as well as expected. So, he provided a 
recommendation to transfer both plans to a new provider using a wrap service. A total of 
over £49,318 was transferred to a SIPP invested in an aggressive portfolio to reflect Mr Ss 
attitude to risk (ATR). Some portfolio amendments were made later in the year, but the 
investments remained aligned with the same ATR. 
In November 2015, when the SIPP was valued at £60,098, Mr S asked to switch his funds 
into a moderate risk rated portfolio. 
 
In 2018 Mr S terminated his relationship with Ascot Lloyd and appointed a new adviser.
 
In September 2019 Mr S, using a representative, complained to Ascot Lloyd about the 
advice hed received in 2011. He said the reasons for the transfer were unclear especially as 
the section 32 plan had secured benefits attached to it. He said a SIPP wasnt an 
appropriate investment vehicle for his objectives and he had very little investment 
experience  so he wasnt an aggressive investor. He wanted suitable redress for what he 
thought was unsuitable advice.
Ascot Lloyd didnt respond so Mr S brought his complaint to us. 
At first Ascot Lloyd objected to us looking at the complaint as it said it had been brought 
outside of the time allowed within our rules. 
But an ombudsman decided that we could consider the complaint, so our investigator looked 
at the advice that Mr S had been given in 2011. 
The investigator thought the advice had been unsuitable and recommended the complaint 
should be upheld. He said there was no compelling reasons to justify either transfer and that 
Mr S had lost valuable guarantees by transferring from the section 32 plan and had incurred 
higher costs and charges by transferring the PPP. He said Ascot Lloyd should carry out 
redress calculations to put Mr S as close to the position hed now be in if he hadnt 
transferred.
Ascot Lloyd initially said it agreed with our findings and that it would carry out the calculation 
as recommended by the investigator. But when it became aware that his recommendation 
wasnt a legal binding agreement it asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman 
 so its been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome the investigator has reached  so Ill explain 
my reasons.
The section 32 guarantees 
At the time of the advice Mr S was 54 years old and wanted to retire between 65 and 70. 
But his section 32 plan had a selected retirement age of 60  just six years away  when it 
would provide an annual GMP of £8,272.65 with a cash lump sum of £9,306.78. As a 
comparison Ascot Lloyds suitability report from 2011 showed that the section 32 plan, with a 
current fund value of £32,455, might provide investment returns of £50,869 if it remained 
with the existing provider against returns of £44,100 if it was transferred to the new plan. 
This was based on the highest rate of investment growth that could be projected using the 
regulators assumptive illustrative rates. 
So in the first instance it was clear that, even investing into funds which might provide higher 
returns  in line with Mr Ss aggressive ATR, he was likely to be significantly worse off at 
age 60. Ascot Lloyd calculated it would need to achieve an additional 2.6% growth each year 
simply to provide the same fund as the existing plan. I think it was unlikely such additional 
returns could be achieved over such a short investment horizon. 
But even if I am wrong in my assumptions of what could be achieved, a fund of around 
£50,000 might realistically be expected to provide income payments of around £2,500 per 
year, based on current average male annuity rates at age 60.  However, Mr S would receive 
a GMP of over three times that amount from his section 32 plan. So its difficult to conclude it 
would be in Mr Ss best interests to transfer the plan with such valuable guarantees in place. 
In its suitability report Ascot Lloyd said the provider had confirmed that there are no 
guaranteed annuity rates applicable to this plan nor are there any penalties payable on 
transfer of the fund. But while this statement itself wasnt incorrect I would have expected it 
to have made Mr S aware of the other valuable guarantees that applied to his plan. As well 
as the GMP which was part of the section 32 plan, it also had protected tax free cash of 
44.8% according to the provider, which was significantly more than the 25% that would 
normally be available from a SIPP.  
Theres no evidence that Mr S was made aware of either of these benefits at the time of the 
advice. I think if he had been made aware, he would more likely than not decided that a 
transfer would not be in his best interests.
  
The projected returns and required growth from the new planApart from the guarantees that applied to the section 32 plan Ive also looked at the other 
comparative information Ascot Lloyd used to justify that transferring both plans was 
appropriate for Mr Ss situation. 
Using the regulators own assumed projections of fund values, Ascot Lloyds illustration of 
future benefits showed that, at all three rates of return that could be used, the likely returns 
from the SIPP would be significantly less than the existing plans at the normal retirement 
age of 60. With regards to a comparison against the section 32 plan it was noted that the 
SIPP would need to grow at an additional 2.6% to provide the same fund, whereas 1.95% 
would be required to match the PPP. Given the limited investment horizon before the 
selected retirement age of Mr Ss two existing plans I think it was unlikely that such growth 
could have been achieved in that time.  
 
However, Mr S did say that he wanted to retire between 65 and 70 years of age. So I have 
also considered whether any recommendation to transfer might show that Mr S was likely to 
better off over an investment horizon of 11 to 16 years. I havent been provided with any 
illustrations which showed the position of a transfer at age 65 or 70, so I cant reasonably 
say that Mr S was put in an informed position to make a decision based on the later 
retirement ages. 
I know Ascot Lloyd produced information about the historic performance of both pension 
funds to show that the new portfolio had outperformed the existing ones  which it thought 
showed the possibility that such additional growth could be obtained on transfer. But I dont 
think that information, taken in isolation, showed that the transfer might be in Mr Ss best 
interests. It didnt take into account Mr Ss ability to be able switch his existing funds free of 
charge and I dont think its a base on which to assume future performance. In the absence 
of any illustration of the position at age 65 or later, I dont think it was possible for Mr S to 
make an informed choice of what he should do. 
In addition, the combination of SIPP and adviser charges that were applied meant an 
ongoing total of 2.25% would be taken from the SIPP fund compared with the 1% annual 
management charge from the existing plans  as well as an initial adviser charge of 3%. So 
the illustration information Mr S was provided with indicated that the SIPP would cost more 
than the existing plans and would require a significant amount of additional growth to be able 
to demonstrate the transfer was in his best interests. 
  
The other reasons given for both transfers
In its suitability report Ascot Lloyd said that the reasons for transfer were:
To review the current pensions held as Mr S had been disappointed with the 
performance of his existing funds.
To maximise the investment returns that Mr S received and receive regular updates 
on the performance of the portfolio by taking a more active approach to the 
management of the funds.
I havent seen evidence to show that Mr S approached Ascot Lloyd in disappointment at the 
performance of his existing funds. But even if I am wrong with that assumption it was noted 
that his existing provider had over 135 funds for him to switch to if he wanted to improve the 
performance of the plans  using other funds more in line with his aggressive ATR. 
Ascot Lloyd wasnt able to provide an illustration that showed Mr S would be more likely to 
maximise his returns. The illustration Ive seen showed that he would be significantly worse 
off with the new plan, using various assumed growth rates and the actual costs that were 
involved. As Ive said previously Ascot Lloyd did provide historical data to suggest that future 
performance might be better within the new portfolio  but Im not persuaded this information was evidence of maximising future returns. Past performance isnt a guarantee of what 
might happen in the future.  
Im also not persuaded that, receiving regular updates and taking a more active approach to 
the management of the funds was a strong enough reason to justify the transfer. Mr S 
would have received annual statements from his existing provider and Im sure he could 
have asked for more regular valuation updates if he wanted to do so. And Ive seen nothing 
in Mr Ss previous experience with his pension plans to suggest that he wanted to be more 
involved in managing his own funds. 
But in any case, I note that Ascot Lloyd applied an additional 1% charge to the SIPP which 
was supposed to cover the on-going management and monitoring of the funds on your 
behalf on a 90 day basis. It doesnt seem consistent to me to apply such a charge having 
established that Mr S wanted to take a more active approach to the management of his 
funds. I would have expected Mr S to involve himself in the management of his funds rather 
than to pay an additional charge to have that done on his behalf. 
The ATR factor
Ascot Lloyd defined Mr S as an aggressive investor, and I know the investigator thought 
this might have been too high a risk profile for Mr S. But the evidence Ive seen showed that 
Mr S was invested across four international equity funds within his existing plans, so I think 
Ascot Lloyds definition was in line with what Mr S had demonstrated previously. And I note 
that in his email response of 4 August 2011  to an invitation to amend his investment 
strategy, he said still staying as an aggressive investor. This would suggest Mr S 
understood the definition and was happy that it applied to his ATR at that time  which was 
only a few months after the initial transfer. Ive also seen another email from 
7 November 2011 in which Mr S said, I have read the description of an Aggressive Investor 
and agree that this accurately reflects my attitude towards investment risk.
So Im satisfied that Mr S understood the ATR that had been used to define him during Ascot 
Lloyds information gathering. And, although he asked for this ATR to be reduced in 2015, I 
think he was comfortable with it being used to recommend a portfolio to him in 2011. 
So I think its likely that, if Mr S had been put into a more informed position in 2011, he would 
have chosen not to transfer as it didnt appear to be in his best interests.  I think he would 
have remained invested in his two existing plans within the same funds he already held. Had 
Mr S decided to realign his investments to a different ATR  as he subsequently did in 2015, 
he had the choice of 135 funds to switch between with his existing plans.  
Summary  
In 2009 the regulator at the time published a report and checklist for pension switching that 
is still applicable today. That checklist identified four main areas where it said consumers 
had lost out. Ive set out two of those areas below:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one.... without good reason.
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. 
In this case Ascot Lloyd switched Mr Ss two pension plans to a SIPP which was more 
expensive. Im not persuaded there were compelling other reasons to recommend the 
transfers. And by transferring his section 32 plan Mr S lost a valuable GMP benefit which 
seemed to provide a far greater income than he could get by transferring and investing into aggressive funds within the SIPP. I havent seen any evidence that Mr S was provided with 
any illustrations or information to show he would be financially better off by transferring. 
Ive looked at the reasons that Ascot Lloyd gave to justify its advice and I dont find them 
compelling enough reasons to have made the recommendation it did. Mr S was most likely 
to agree to transfer if he thought he was likely to be better off. I havent seen anything to 
suggest he ought to have reached that conclusion within the information he was provided 
with. In my view, suitable advice would have been not to advise Mr S to transfer his two 
plans. 
Putting things right
The section 32 policy 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider the proceeds of the 
transfer wont be enough by retirement to cover the GMP. I think Mr S would therefore have 
kept his section 32 plan if hed been aware of its guarantees and received the GMP and 
available tax free cash. Ascot Lloyd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Ascot Lloyd may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date 
Ascot Lloyd receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Ascot Lloyd to pay Mr S.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
The PPP 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have remained in his existing plan and fund. So Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested. Mr Ss existing provider has told us that it is able to calculate the required 
notional values.
What must Ascot Lloyd do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Ascot Lloyd must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Ascot Lloyd should add interest as set out below:
Ascot Lloyd should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Ascot Lloyd is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr S £500 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Ascot Lloyd deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Ascot Lloyd should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists and 
liquidThe existing 
plan Mr S held 
and invested in 
the same 
funds. Date of transfer Date that Mr S 
changed to a 
new adviser in 
July 2018, but 
any loss should 
be brought up 
to date by 
having the 
notional returns 
applied to it 
from the date 
the loss is 
capped to the 
date of my final 
decision.8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Ascot 
Lloyd totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. 
My decision is that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr S the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including distress or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out above.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd pays Mr S 
the balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Capital 
Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd. It is unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman