DRN-3168177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D and Miss D are unhappy about the settlement offered by Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) with regards to a travel 
insurance claim they made.
The complaint is in the name of Mr and Mrs D and their older daughter  Miss D. There is a 
fourth person who is also a policy holder  Miss D. Shes a minor and whilst not on this 
complaint, she should be considered as included for the purposes of this policy.
Mr D is the lead complainant on this this complaint. So, for ease, Ill refer to Mr D throughout 
this complaint.
Any reference to Mapfre includes all its agents. 
What happened
On 14 December 2019, Mr D booked a holiday with his wife and two daughters. He booked 
the accommodation separate to the flights. Their intended dates of travel were from 22 
August 2020 to 5 September 2020. The first payment for the accommodation was made on 
16 December 2019 and the second payment (the balance outstanding) was made on 5 
August 2020. The accommodation booked was for 10 people.
On 17 April 2020, Mr D took out annual travel insurance which included him and his three 
family members. The dates covered for the travel policy were from 12 May 2020 to 11 May 
2021. The underwriter of the policy was Mapfre. 
Mr D cancelled the trip on 21 August 2020 because the Foreign, Development and 
Commonwealth Office (FCDO)  formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) - was advising against all but essential travel to the country they were intending to 
travel to. 
Mr D made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the cost of the accommodation as he 
didnt receive a refund from the provider. He managed to get a refund for the car hire and a 
credit voucher for the flights.
Mapfre responded and confirmed acceptance of the claim and a payment for the familys 
portion of the accommodation. So, Mapfre agreed to make a payment of four tenths of the 
cost of the accommodation and not the total cost. Mapfre said the booking invoice and 
cancellation confirmation showed that the accommodation was for 10 people and under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, Mr D was entitled to four tenths of the cost of the 
accommodation. 
Mr D was unhappy with Mapfres response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He said the policy terms and conditions are 
clear that Mapfre would only pay for those who are insured on the policy. He didnt think 
Mapfre had done anything wrong in settling the claim proportionately for those persons 
insured on the policy.
Mr D disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into 
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant regulators rules 
say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds travel insurance policy as they 
form the basis of the insurance contract with Mapfre. 
Page 18-19, Section A, of the policy document sets out the cover available under Mr Ds 
policy in the event a trip has to be cancelled. This says:
A. Cancelling and cutting short your trip
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below
we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 5 for:
Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract which you cannot get back
Additionally, there are some special conditions which apply to Section A. This says:
2. We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out 
insurance with (X). For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not 
insured, we only pay your proportion of costs, not theirs, regardless of who has paid 
for the booking.
Based on the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy, Im satisfied that Mr D made the 
payment for the accommodation himself and in full and that it was unused. And, this is not in 
dispute. The issue in dispute is whether Mapfre should have made the payment for the full 
cost of the accommodation for which Mr D has suffered a loss. 
Should Mapfre make a payment for the full cost of the accommodation?
Ive considered the information submitted by both Mr D and Mapfre. I can see that the 
accommodation was booked for 10 people. 
Mr D completed a claim form and confirmed on this that 10 people were due to travel in their 
group. The booking invoice and cancellation confirmation shows the booking was made to 
accommodate 10 people. So, while I appreciate that there was a chance, due to the 
pandemic and the risks associated with this, that the other 6 people may not have been able 
to join them, I think it seems likely Mr Ds intention at the outset was to book accommodation 
for 10 people. Theres no way of knowing how many people would have actually gone ahead 
with the trip and used the accommodation. But the point is the terms and conditions of the policy only allow payment for the unused expenses of those insured on the policy and their 
proportion of the costs. In the circumstances of this complaint, there are four people insured 
on the policy and therefore Mapfre would only be responsible for paying their proportion of 
the costs incurred. 
I appreciate Mr D says the expense of the holiday was for his and his family of four. He says 
he booked the villa to enjoy the space and facilities and whether or not anyone else came 
along or not. I understand but I can only go by the information thats available to me and by 
what was booked at the time. Everything Ive seen on the complaint confirms the booking 
was made for 10 people.
Overall, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Mapfre has treated Mr D unfairly 
in paying four tenths of the cost of the accommodation and Im satisfied thats in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask Mapfre to accept payment of the claim for 10 people. It follows that I dont 
require Mapfre to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im dont uphold Mr and Mrs D and Miss Ds complaint against 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, Miss D and 
Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman