The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy that the Protection Specialist Limited (PSL) trading as the Fair 
Trade Practise is charging a fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. Mr H and 
Mrs H said the claim was successful because of the work they did.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mr H in my decision.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr H signed a letter of authority (LoA) for PSL to act on his behalf to make a 
PPI claim with one of his lenders, Ill call Y. PSL asked Y to check whether Mr H had any 
PPI policies with them.
In July 2018 PSL told Mr H that Y had said they couldnt locate any policies for him and 
further information was needed.
In August 2019, PSL asked Mr H to complete and sign another LoA and a PPI questionnaire. 
And these were sent to Y in September 2019. In October 2019 Y told both Mr H and PSL 
that the PPI claim had been successful and detailed the amount of compensation Mr H 
would get. And in November 2019 PSL sent Mr H an invoice for their fee for the successful 
claim.
Mr H said PSL had asked for the same information several times. And that hed not been 
updated for over a year. Mr H said it was only after hed contacted his lender and this 
service, providing the information needed, that meant the claim had been successful, not the 
work done by PSL.
So, he didnt think PSLs fee should be paid. PSL said theyd had to ask Mr H for further 
information as his lender hadnt been able to locate his account. They also said they hadnt 
received any request from Mr H to cancel his agreement. But said they would reduce their 
fee from 30% inclusive of VAT to 24% inclusive of VAT. 
Mr H wasnt happy with PSLs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said PSL could charge its fee as Mr H had a successful claim that hed 
authorised PSL to pursue on his behalf. Mr H said he should be reimbursed for the time hed 
spent in disputing the fees being charged by PSL, but our investigator said this wasnt 
something we could consider.
Mr H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
DRN-1910526What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr H has raised issues which our investigator has said we cant consider. So, I will make no 
comment about these in my decision.
In May 2018, Mr H signed a LoA instructing PSL to act for him in checking whether he had 
any PPI policies. In signing the LoA Mr H confirmed he had read and accepted PSLs terms 
and conditions. The LoA said:
I understand that, in addition to the present Letter of Authority I will need to provide further 
informationabout the underlying product(s), service(s) and where known, specific account 
number(s) being complained about.
And the terms and conditions say:
You agree that you will provide any information we request, and return any documents we 
need you to return as soon as reasonably possible to allow us to provide the services to you
The agreement Mr H had with PSL was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
PSL charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, PSLs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
So, Im satisfied PSL had been clear that Mr H might be asked to provide further 
information to help progress his claim. And that any fee PSL charged was based on whether 
the claim was successful rather than the amount of work PSL did.
The terms and conditions also provide details about how Mr H could cancel the agreement:
you may cancel your instruction within a cooling off period of 14 calendar days of the date 
you return your signed letter of authority to us
PSL said it hadnt received any cancellation notification. And I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr H wanted to cancel his agreement or association with PSL before the compensation 
award was made. And PSLs terms and conditions go on to say:
If a lender makes a reasonable financial award after we have started providing the services 
to youwe will send an invoice for our fee.
I can see that there was a delay from when Mr H first signed the LOA, in May 2018 with 
PSL. And I think this was because his lender was having difficulty in locating his details. In 
July 2018 PSL told Mr H he needed to go into one of Ys branches to verify his details. I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr H did this.
But in August 2019 Mr H was asked by PSL to sign another LOA. This differed from the first 
LOA as there were additional previous addresses included. PSL also asked Mr H to 
complete a PPI questionnaire. And PSL sent both the signed LOA and the completed 
questionnaire to lender Y in September 2019. Mr H had the opportunity again to cancel the agreement, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
he did. So, Im satisfied Mr H again authorised PSL to act on his behalf to pursue his PPI 
claims. And in October 2019, Lender Y wrote to both Mr H and PSL to advise that the PPI 
claims were successful. 
Mr H has said that the success of the claim wasnt because of what PSL did. But Ive not 
seen evidence of any other body acting on Mr Hs behalf in pursuing his PPI claim, other 
than PSL before lender Y made their offer of compensation. And lender Y in informing 
PSL of the success of Mr Hs claim accepted PSL as his representative.
So, while I can understand Mr H is frustrated about the fee PSL is charging him, I cant 
see that Mr H cancelled the agreement before being told of the success of his claims. And 
Mr Hs PPI claim was successful. So, Im satisfied PSL can charge its fee.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims 
Management Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force 
on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a 
success fee of more than 20% plus VAT. But the fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesnt 
apply to agreements entered into before this date. Mr Hs agreement was entered into in 
May 2018, before the fee cap. But as Mr H signed another LOA in August 2019, which I think 
brought about the successful claim. The offer made by PSL in reducing their fee in line with 
the fee cap. I think is fair and reasonable. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But the claims PSL submitted for 
him were successful. So, Im satisfied PSL acted in line with the terms and conditions 
by charging Mr H their success fee. And they have asked him to pay a success fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT.
PSL says in its terms and conditions that if an invoice for its fees isnt paid in full by a set 
date it would charge late payment fees and interest on the outstanding amount. But their 
terms and conditions also say these wont be applied whilst the fees being charged 
are being disputed, as is the case here. As Mr H started to dispute the success fees on 
receipt of PSLs invoice, Im pleased to see that PSL has said they would remove these 
charges. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22July2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman