DRN-2912897
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled his claim under his 
home emergency policy for a boiler fault. 
What happened
Briefly, Mr D claimed under his policy for a boiler fault. Because Aviva couldnt send anyone 
out soon enough for him, Mr D engaged his own contractor to identify the fault. The 
contractor told him that previous annual boiler services hadnt been done correctly. 
Mr D asked Aviva to repair the fault, and he complained about the availability of 
appointments, the standard of boiler service, and damage to a clip on the front of the boiler.
Aviva accepted that it hadnt provided an acceptable service. To resolve the matter, it:
refunded the value of the last three services;
refunded the premium paid for the gas element of the policy;
reimbursed Mr D £192 for the private contractors fee;
paid £120 towards a service of Mr Ds choice;
refunded the £60 policy excess, and
paid £200 compensation.
Mr D didnt think Aviva had done enough, but it didnt increase its offer.
Our investigator agreed that Aviva hadnt handled Mr Ds claim as well as could be 
expected. However, he thought that Avivas offer to refund premiums and compensate Mr D 
for the inconvenience and upset was fair. Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do 
anything more.
Initially, Mr D agreed but he then asked for an ombudsmans decision because he felt that 
he and his family had been in danger because of Avivas actions. The complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Let me explain.
Firstly, Id like to clarify the parts of this complaint Ive considered. Mr Ds home emergency 
policy comprises two separate contracts: one for the annual boiler service and one for 
emergency repairs. As the boiler service contract isnt provided by Aviva, and it isnt a 
regulated service, I cant consider any part of the complaint which relates only to the annual 
service. For clarity, I cant consider the following parts of Mr Ds complaint:
Incorrect annual boiler service.
Perceived danger because of incorrect annual service.
Damaged clip on boiler cover during annual service.
The contract for the home emergency repairs is a regulated service underwritten by Aviva, 
so my decision is only about the parts of Mr Ds complaint relating to the emergency repairs.
Moving on, it seems that the facts of this complaint are not in dispute, so Ill focus on the 
reasons for my decision.
I can see that Mr D experienced delays with appointments for the boiler fault, leaving him 
without hot water and heating. Because Aviva couldnt provide an appointment sooner, he 
engaged a private contractor. Aviva accepted that it hadnt handled the claim as well as it 
couldve done and reimbursed Mr D £192 to cover the full cost of the contractor. Im satisfied 
that Aviva put matters right here because it meant Mr D had the work done at no cost to him. 
This is the service he shouldve received under his policy, although he wouldve paid an 
excess of £60. So, Im satisfied that Aviva put matters right, here, and I wont be asking it to 
do any more in respect of this issue.
Aviva carried out further repairs on Mr Ds boiler. After considering his complaint, it refunded 
the excess of £60 which hed paid for those repairs. The policy terms allow for Aviva to 
charge the excess, but I think it was reasonable that it refunded the payment given the poor 
service Mr D had experienced. Again, this meant Mr D had the work done at no cost to him, 
so Im satisfied that Aviva resolved this matter fairly.
Because of the overall poor service, Aviva refunded to Mr D the premiums hed paid for the 
repair element of the contract. By refunding the premiums, Aviva has put Mr D into a position 
as if hed never had the contract. I can see that, at times, Mr D received the service hed 
paid for, albeit to a standard he was unhappy with. So, Im satisfied that Aviva has done 
enough here because it provided a service which, essentially, Mr D hasnt paid for.
In addition to the refund, Aviva paid £200 compensation to Mr D in recognition of its service 
shortfalls. While Mr D doesnt think the compensation is enough, I dont agree. I know he 
feels he and his family were in danger, but thats because of his dissatisfaction around the 
annual boiler service. Aviva was only responsible for the repairs and it has either carried out 
the repairs or reimbursed Mr D for those his own contractor completed. The compensation it 
paid is in addition to the refunds, by way of apology. Im satisfied that its a fair sum and in 
line with what our service would require. I see no reason to ask Aviva to increase the 
compensation.
I understand Mr D remains upset by his experience and he doesnt think Aviva has done 
enough. I realise hell be looking at the whole experience, but I must stress that Aviva isnt 
responsible for the annual boiler service contract so I cant ask it to put anything right in 
respect of those issues. My decision is only about the repair contract and, as Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied that Aviva has done enough to put matters right and I wont be asking it 
to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman