DRN-3685929
The complaint
Mr C complains about the handling by HSBC UK Bank Plc of his request to make a bank 
transfer to a foreign account.
What happened
Mr C asked HSBC to send funds from his businesss bank account to an account in eastern 
Europe. The request triggered HSBCs fraud risk alerts so the bank asked for more 
information. Mr C explained that he was looking to reimburse someone for an airline ticket 
from a western European country to the UK. However, Mr Cs explanation prompted further 
concerns of fraud. 
HSBC then followed the protocol which exists to protect people against fraud. It blocked the 
payment and notified the police that Mr C might have been the target of an attempted fraud. 
The police visited Mr Cs house to enquire further. 
Mr C complained. He didnt agree that the payment should have been blocked and didnt 
appreciate the police coming to his house.
HSBC reviewed its actions but didnt find that it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
followed its procedures correctly, which are there to protect people from fraud.
Not content with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things but also found that HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. He explained that it 
was not unreasonable for HSBC to have concerns given the answers provided by Mr C to its 
questions, and its actions then followed appropriately. He said that, while the payment may 
have been genuine, HSBC couldnt be certain of this at the time and acted responsibly and 
in accordance with the systems which exist between banks and the police to protect people 
from harm.
Mr C didnt agree with this view, so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was understandably frustrated by not being able to make the transfer of funds he 
wanted, and concerned that the intended recipient might suffer some inconvenience from 
being without those funds. He was also understandably concerned about the police coming 
to his house.
However, having looked carefully into what happened, I can understand why HSBC had the 
concerns it did about the intended payment. Given the circumstances of the requested 
transfer and the explanations provided, and the high prevalence of fraud in similar situations, 
I would have been concerned if HSBCs fraud alerts were not triggered. These systems are 
in place to protect people so, while it is unfortunate that they sometimes delay payments 
which are not the result of fraud, they are important.
Having considered the information provided to HSBC, I think it was entirely appropriate for 
HSBC to follow the protocol, so blocking the requested transfer and contacting the police. 
While I have sympathy for Mr C due to the inconvenience caused, I do not believe that 
HSBC did anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman