DRN-3830015
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the length of time taken to remove his name from a joint 
mortgage account with Lloyds Bank PLC and the impact of this on his credit file. To settle 
the complaint, Mr C wants Lloyds to compensate him and offer him and his new partner a 
mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr C being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr C had a mortgage which was held jointly with his former partner. In 2018 he left the 
mortgaged property. Lloyds wasnt willing to remove him from the mortgage account and 
said it could only do this if the other party applied, and the request was deemed affordable.
In April 2020 Mr C was declared bankrupt, and was discharged from bankruptcy in 
April 2021. In April 2022 Lloyds agreed that, because the bankruptcy meant that Mr C had 
no interest in the property, it would remove him from the account, and did so in April 2022. 
Lloyds acknowledged it could have done this sooner, and agreed to refund Mr Cs legal fees 
of £3,239 and to pay him compensation of £3,000.
Mr C didnt think this was sufficient and complained to our service. He said that because of 
Lloyds error, he had to sell his car, and his credit score is now very poor. Mr C says that this 
has affected his ability to obtain credit or a mortgage elsewhere. Mr C says that he had to 
walk away from the property, when he should have been paid £13,000 from the equity, due 
to the value of the property at the time he left.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything 
further. He was satisfied that the compensation offered was fair.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated the 
points hes previously made about how this has impacted his life and that he is having to pay 
very high interest for his car, and isnt able to get a mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint: whether Lloyds should have removed Mr C from the 
mortgage sooner than it did, and how the banks actions have (or have not) affected Mr Cs 
credit profile and thus his ability to obtain credit elsewhere.
Where a mortgage is in joint names and one party asks to be removed from the account a 
lender is required to consider whether or not the mortgage would be affordable for the other 
party if it was transferred into their sole name. Lloyds explained this to Mr C in 2019, and Im 
satisfied this was the correct response. 
I dont know if Mr Cs former partner made an application for the mortgage to be transferred 
into their sole name  that person is not a party to this complaint, and so I have no consent 
to access their personal information. But if there had been an application and Lloyds 
considered it not to be affordable in their sole name, thats a decision Lloyds would have 
been entitled to make. If there was no application, thats a decision for Mr Cs former partner.
Mr C believes that if a transfer of the mortgage had taken place in 2019, hed have been 
entitled to receive £13,000 from the equity in the property. However, Mr C will need to 
resolve that issue directly with his former partner if he believes that he is entitled to a share 
of the equity.
After Mr C had been declared bankrupt, Lloyds should have removed him from the mortgage 
account. I note Lloyds has now acknowledged this, and the bank removed him from the 
account in April 2022. Im not persuaded, however, that the banks failure to do this sooner 
has affected Mr Cs ability to raise credit.
I say this because, having looked at Mr Cs credit file, I can see that the bankruptcy has 
been correctly reported on the credit file by Lloyds. The credit file shows the mortgage as 
being defaulted on the date of Mr Cs bankruptcy, and the satisfaction date one year later, 
when he was discharged from bankruptcy. The defaulted account will remain on his credit 
file for six years from the date of the bankruptcy, and so should not drop off his credit file 
until April 2026. Im satisfied, therefore, that the information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
about the bankruptcy and the effect of this on the mortgage account is correct.
I appreciate Mr Cs point  that if Lloyds had agreed to remove him from the mortgage in 
2019 when hed ask the bank to do so, it wouldnt now be reported on his credit file. But as 
Ive said above, it was up to Mr Cs former partner to apply to the bank for a transfer of the 
mortgage into their own name. If theyd done that, but the application had been declined on 
affordability, thats not something I can ask Lloyds to change, or backdate. If Mr Cs former 
partner hadnt made an application, thats not something thats within the control of Lloyds, 
or anything that this service can become involved with; its between Mr C and his former 
partner.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the mortgage is being correctly reported on Mr Cs 
credit file. I fully appreciate that this has affected the type of credit and the interest rates 
available to him. But lenders are entitled to know the financial history of someone applying 
for credit, including any previous bankruptcy. Therefore, even if Lloyds had removed Mr C 
from the mortgage account in April 2020 (when he was declared bankrupt) or April 2021 
(when his bankruptcy was discharged), the bankruptcy itself would still have shown up on his 
credit file, and will continue to do so until April 2026.
Ive looked at the redress Lloyds has offered Mr C  reimbursement of legal expenses of 
£3,239 and compensation of £3,000 for distress, inconvenience and poor customer service. 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable, and is in excess of any compensation I would have 
awarded had Lloyds not made an offer. I am therefore not ordering Lloyds to do anything 
further. I simply leave it up to Mr C to decide if he wants to accept this in settlement of his 
complaint.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr C wanted; I can see from what hes told us that he feels very 
strongly about this matter. But, as Ive explained above, Lloyds wasnt obliged to remove Mr C from the mortgage in 2019, and therefore the information on Mr Cs credit file about the 
mortgage is correct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman