DRN-3440945
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt 
correctly submit his transfer request for a pension he held with another provider. He says 
this delay  which he thinks HLAM is responsible for, has caused him to suffer a financial 
loss of over £7,000 for which he would like to be compensated. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr H wanted to transfer a pension that he held elsewhere to HLAM, so that 
he could amalgamate his plans with one provider. HLAM received an online transfer request 
from Mr H on 2 March, which it submitted to the existing provider on 3 March. This was 
rejected by the provider on 5 March 2020 as it said the policy number was incorrect and the 
composition of the funds held wasnt confirmed properly. Mr H then provided a paper 
transfer application which was forwarded to the existing provider again but rejected for one 
of the same reasons.
After the provider again asked HLAM for the correct information a third request was then 
received and the transfer process began  which meant there was delay to the time taken for 
the provider to sell Mr Hs funds to cash. Both parties have agreed the delay was 
approximately one day.
The cash from the transfer was received by HLAM on 23 March 2020, although Mr H didnt 
invest the proceeds until sometime later. 
But Mr Hs wife had transferred her pension at the same time, and he became aware that 
her funds had been sold to cash by the original provider a day earlier. So he complained to 
HLAM that the delay had caused him a financial loss, as he calculated that if the funds had 
been sold a day earlier then he would have been around £7,000 better off.
HLAM accepted that it incorrectly filled out the forms on the electronic transfer system. But it 
said that, overall, the transfer had completed within the time frame it would have expected 
and it didnt feel it was responsible for any perceived investment loss. But it accepted the 
matter had caused some distress and inconvenience and offered Mr H £100. 
 
HLAM said that the perceived delay of one day was principally because Mrs Hs transfer, 
which began at the same time, completed one day earlier. 
Mr H wasnt happy with that outcome so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
investigators looked into the matter and concluded the complaint should be upheld. 
She said that, while she accepted HLAMs view that Mr H could have mitigated his position 
at any time, she believed it was responsible for the minor delay that had occurred and 
should put Mr H in the position hed be in now had the transfer completed a day earlier. She 
also thought HLAM should pay the £100 it offered Mr H for the inconvenience hed been 
caused. 
HLAM said that it aimed to complete a transfer in 30 days and in this case, it had completed 
within 21 days. So it didnt think it had caused an overall delay and wasnt responsible for 
any financial loss. It said it didnt know when the other provider sold Mr Hs funds and noted 
that Mr H didnt invest into any new funds for almost a week after the transfer.
 
The investigator said shed concluded that HLAM had caused a delay and asked it to 
calculate whether Mr H had suffered any financial loss as result. She asked HLAM if it 
accepted her redress formula.
  
HLAM didnt agree. It said it hadnt seen any evidence to show that it had unnecessarily 
delayed the transfer. So as no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me for 
a review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that the complaint should be upheld. I made the following 
points in support of my findings:
Following the insertion of an incorrect policy number on the original transfer request 
HLAM was made aware of the reasons for the rejection of the transfer by the existing 
provider on 5 March 2020. So a second request was made, which was also rejected 
for the same reason. I thought HLAM had been made aware of that reason and 
should have ensured it wasnt repeated for the second time. 
A third application was submitted two days later which was accepted by the existing 
provider. The transfer completed 10 days or so later.
But I didnt think it was fair for HLAM to use the fact that the transfer itself completed 
within its usual service standards as a reason to make an error which caused a delay 
 especially a time critical one such as this where time out of the market could 
cause a financial loss.
I accepted that HLAM had completed the transfer inside its usual service standards 
and Mr H himself had delayed in investing the funds after the transfer. But any loss 
caused by that was for Mr H to accept and I wanted to ensure HLAM had completed 
each part of the process without causing unnecessary delay.
I concluded that the delay between the second and third applications was caused by 
HLAM  because it was aware of the reasons for the rejection of the second 
application. So I thought it should calculate the position Mr H would have been in had 
the existing provider been able to start processing the transfer on 10 March 2020. I 
also thought HLAMs offer of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused was fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H said he now didnt believe there was any dispute about HLAMs error and expected to 
receive at least the initial financial loss he calculated had occurred as compensation. 
Although he also felt that compensation should include the growth on his pension since the 
event  which he estimated was round 9%. But he wanted to reiterate that his decision not to 
invest his funds straight away after the transfer had no bearing on the loss he said was 
caused directly by the delay.
HLAM thought that its 30 working day service standard was in place to allow it sufficient time 
to process transfers and give scope to correct any errors  which it said arent uncommon in 
such transactions. But it accepted the reasons behind my provisional decision and said it 
would carry out a calculation in line with my recommendation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as both sides broadly agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from my findings. So Ill confirm my reasons for reaching that outcome. 
When Mr H completed a transfer request to HLAM for his existing pensions the policy 
number and composition of funds was incorrectly recorded. This wasnt HLAMs 
responsibility, but it was advised by the existing provider of the reasons for the transfer being 
rejected. These were that the client policy number doesnt match our records and client has 
mixed holdings (crystallised and uncrystallised). Please re request with correct policy 
number and also as mixed holdings.
So HLAM was aware of what it needed to include in a subsequent application to put things 
right. It needed to provide the correct policy number and confirm that there were crystallised 
and uncrystallised assets within the plan. The policy number that was resubmitted was 
corrected but the split between uncrystallised and crystallised funds wasnt -so the 
application was rejected again. 
I think this was HLAMs responsibility and I think it made an error that could have been 
avoided by submitting the application as instructed by the existing provider. A third 
application submitted a day later was accepted as correct  so HLAM did have the 
necessary information to provide the correct details previously. And HLAM has subsequently 
accepted that it had probably made an error which led to the delay.
HLAM has said that, despite the possible error it made, it completed the transfer inside the 
30 day service standards that it applies to such transactions. It said the 30 days gives it 
scope to correct any problems that almost inevitably occur in these type of transfers and it 
believed this meant it shouldnt be held responsible for any individual delay during Mr Hs 
transfer process. But I dont think this approach should allow HLAM not to ensure each part 
of the process is completed as quickly and smoothly as possible so that there arent any 
errors which might cause delay and financial losses. I accept there are many things that can 
go wrong with transfers but at the same time I think its the responsibility of each party to 
minimise these errors especially when they can be time critical  which was the case here. 
In Mr Hs case this delay meant that he was out of the market for one day longer than was 
necessary and he said this led to a significant fall in the value of his plan. I think it was an 
avoidable delay, and as doesnt appear to be in dispute I think it was HLAMs responsibility. 
So I think it should carry out a calculation, as Ive set out below, to see if Mr H has incurred a 
financial loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if HLAM had provided the correct information in the application that was received 
by the ceding provider on 10 March 2020.
What must HLAM do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, HLAM must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of a notional value had the 
existing provider been able to start work on the transfer when it was activated on 10 March 2020, assuming the requirements had been met to process the transfer. 
And if the rest of the process had followed the same course as the actual process 
that began on 12 March 2020.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
HLAM should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If HLAM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
HLAM should pay the £100 it offered Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused 
if it hasnt already done so.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HLAM deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. HLAM should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited 
My decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
It should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman