DRN-3782558
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as W is unhappy Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers 
Limited directed it to move its business protection insurance policy to a new broker during 
the policy year. W says this caused it financial loss and inconvenience. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should 
be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
While it is clear from the correspondence there was a disagreement between the 
parties, I have seen no evidence that either was rude to the other. As each party 
alleges. 
It is clear W indicated it would move its business to a new broker from the next 
renewal of the policy however it was Finch that asked them to do so as soon as 
possible. 
While it is for a business to choose who it wishes to deal with, in this instance I think 
it would have been reasonable for Finch to have explored other ways of 
communicating with W in the first instance or whether there was another way in 
which its account could be managed. Finch has also not explained why it didnt just 
let the policies run until renewal, as generally, unless there is a claim, limited 
interaction is required between the parties during the year.  
By taking the action it did, Finch put W in a situation where in order to move its 
business to a new broker and have no further dealings with Finch, it had to cancel its 
existing insurance policy and take out a new one. W has said that it could not find a 
new broker that would take on the administration of an existing policy as Finch had 
suggested may be the case. 
I dont think the action Finch took was reasonable in the circumstances and as such it 
caused W financial loss. W incurred cancellation charges and inconvenience as it 
had to arrange new policies. I think therefore Finch should refund those charges and 
pay compensation to W.
In addition, it appears the proportional refund from the insurer was unexplainably 
delayed in being credited to W. The policy was cancelled on 6 December 2021 
however W did not receive a refund until 3 February 2022. Finch has not confirmed 
when it received the refund from the insurer but told W it should have it within 30 
days.  Considering that period included Christmas, I think its reasonable to think the 
payment may have been delayed slightly. And it may have taken around a further 
week for Finch to arrange to forward that payment to W. So, being mindful of that, I 
think it would be reasonable to expect Finch should have been able to make the 
payment to W for it to have been received around mid-January. Therefore, I think 
Finch should pay interest on the amount refunded from 20 January 2022  to 
2 February 2022. 
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Finch should do the following:
Refund the £50 cancellation fee charged by Finch
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the £144.41 already refunded, calculated from 
20 January 2022 to 2 February 2022. 
Pay W £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Provide a breakdown of the amounts referenced above to W showing they are 
included within the payment made
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ws complaint against Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers 
Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman