DRN-2204850
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr H fell victim to a scam. 
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Mr H was looking to purchase a car he had seen advertised.  Prior to buying the car Mr H 
has told us he carried out a number of checks.  Mr H has said he carried out an RAC history 
report, which came back fine.  Mr H also checked the log-book and nothing appeared to be 
tampered with. Alongside this Mr H has said he did an HPI and VIN check, which did not 
cause concern and the seller also confirmed they were willing to drive the car to Mr H.
As everything appeared to be fine and on delivery of the car Mr H made three payments 
totalling £15,000. Mr H has said he had to speak to Barclays before the payments were 
allowed to go through, as the limit for payments through his online banking was £10,000 and 
he needed to pay £15,000.
The breakdown of the payments Mr H made was as follows:
18/11/2018 £250
18/11/2018 £4,750
18/11/2018 £10,000
Mr H has said in September 2019, around 10 months later, the police visited him at his home 
and told him his car may have been cloned This was confirmed when the back seat was 
moved to reveal the true Vehicle Identification Number. As the car was proved to be cloned it 
was seized by the police.
Mr H complained to Barclays and it issued its final response on 8 November 2019. It said it 
appreciated the distress and inconvenience Mr H had been caused by the issue. But that 
this was a buyer/seller dispute and it could not assist with the recovery of the funds, it did not 
consider any bank error had occurred.
Mr H then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator said even though Mr H spoke to Barclays, a discussion didnt take 
place beyond Mr H confirming that the payment should be made. So he couldnt see 
Barclays missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being made in relation to a 
scam. He added that unfortunately, at the time Mr H reported the fraud to Barclays, the 
money had already been removed from the receiving account. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr H, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Barclays actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to be made. 
I also dont think it would have been able to recover any of the money Mr H lost.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should 
reimburse him the £15,000 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudster. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr H, when Mr H made transfers to a fraudster and when Mr H reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr H has accepted that he authorised the transfers. Because of this, Barclays had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Mr H had a conversation with Barclays before making the payment, but from what Ive seen 
this was just to confirm that Mr H wanted to make the payment, and Ive not seen any 
evidence that a more detailed conversation took place at the time.  Ive looked at Mr Hs 
statements for the six months leading up to the scam.  The payment Mr H was intending to 
make for £15,000 was to a new payee and seemed untypically high compared to his usual 
account activity. 
Given this, I think Barclays ought to have intervened and asked further questions before the 
payment was processed, to satisfy itself Mr H wasnt at risk of financial harm.  So, Ive 
thought about whether it would have made any difference if Barclays had asked further 
questions.
Had Barclays have intervened Id have expected it to ask some questions about the 
payment. For example, they could have asked what the payment was for, whether Mr H had 
seen the car, whether Mr H knew the seller and whether hed carried out any research on 
the car. 
Had Barclays asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mr H would have been able 
to give plausible and persuasive answers to the bank. He would have been able to explain 
hed carried out an HPI and VIN check on the vehicle that didnt show any alerts, hed met 
with the seller, hed done an RAC history report and it all checked out that it seemed like a 
genuine sale. Importantly he would have been able to say he was taking possession of the 
car. I dont think the answers Mr H would likely have given would have demonstrated the 
usual hallmarks of scams involving the purchase of cars, where typically victims dont tend to 
see the car, before paying money to the fraudsters and dont take possession of the vehicle. 
Given the answers I think Mr H is likely to have given, I think Barclays would have been 
satisfied Mr H was not at risk of financial harm and I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say 
Barclays should have foreseen that the vehicle may have been stolen. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Barclays did what it shouldve done once Mr H reported 
to it that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Barclays made to 
recover the money, once Mr H reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Barclays to refund the money to Mr H, I need to be satisfied that Barclays should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see it wasnt until around 10 months after the payment that Mr H became 
aware that hed been scammed. Ive seen evidence from the receiving bank shows that the 
payment which was sent to the fraudster, was moved on from the receiving bank the day 
after the payments were made. So, there would have been no opportunity for Barclays to 
have recovered any funds for Mr H at the time he reported the scam, as sadly no funds 
would have remained to be recovered. 
Its very unfortunate Mr H has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should have done more to prevent him 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclays to 
refund the loss.
My final decisionFor the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman