DRN-3316448
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund £3,731.02 he 
says he lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so Ill only set them out briefly. 
Mr R wanted to buy goods from a supplier who was a Chinese based company through a 
well-known website which is a portal for businesses around the world who wish to sell goods 
internationally. 
Mr R had contact with a representative for the supplier through the websites chat messaging 
function.
On 20 July 2020 Mr R made a faster payment of £3,731.02. This payment was made for the 
purchase of goods, such as American sweets, chocolates, and confectionary. 
Mr R says he was informed the delivery time for the goods would be around five weeks. In 
chat messages provided by Mr R with the representative for the supplier, he was told that it 
would be 30 days for the goods to arrive in the UK after leaving Hong Kong. Mr R has also 
provided other messages after he chased up the delivery where he was informed the goods 
had not yet been shipped as the quantity was too small and that the shipping company 
needed a full container and then the ship would leave  although there is no date shown as 
to when this update was given. Mr R explains he was also informed about Covid delay by 
the representative. He adds that his last contact with the representative was in late 
November 2020 when he was told the goods were on the way. 
On 5 November 2020, Mr R contacted NatWest to ask for its help. NatWest responded and 
said it would not reimburse Mr R for the loss as it could not be treated as a scam. NatWest 
deemed this a retail dispute between Mr R and the seller of the goods. It did agree that the 
level of service Mr R had received was not to the level expected  in particular it apologised 
for the time it took for his complaint to be resolved and for the incorrect information given to 
him about a faster payment recall. In recognition of the service provided, NatWest credited 
Mr R with £300 in compensation. 
Mr R remained unhappy with NatWests response and so he referred his complaint to this 
service for review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think 
there was clear evidence that suggested the seller intended to deceive Mr R and had no 
intentions of supplying the goods from the outset. He also explained that Mr R wasnt 
protected by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or the chargeback scheme  as 
the payment Mr R made here was a direct bank transfer from his account to another 
account. Overall, our investigator considered this a civil dispute between Mr R and the seller 
and not a scam. 
Mr R responded to say he is unhappy with the £300 compensation. He feels NatWest paid 
this amount due to a mistake in not letting him make a Visa dispute claim within the 
timeframe. He feels had NatWest not made errors, the claim would have been raised within 
the timeframe and he would have been paid the money hes lost. 
Our investigator reiterated that the payment Mr R made was not a card payment but a faster 
payment. This means the payment would not be covered by the Visa dispute scheme. He 
concluded that even if the bank acted within the time limits the claim would not have been 
progressed as a card dispute and would have been looked at as an Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scam but that NatWest concluded the dispute was a civil dispute, which he 
agreed with.  
For completeness, he considered the £300 compensation paid by NatWest to be sufficient 
compensation for the poor customer service when it initially dealt with the dispute. He didnt 
think the poor service affected the eventual outcome and so didnt recommend any further 
award. 
As Mr R didnt accept the investigators view the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having thought carefully about NatWests actions, I dont uphold this complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr R, but I dont think I can fairly say NatWest 
should reimburse him. I will explain why. 
Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr R, and I appreciate this has had an impact 
on him. Its understandable, having lost this sum of money, why Mr R feels he has been the 
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost money are in fact fraudulent 
and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the Code), which 
NatWest has committed to follow and was in force at the time Mr R made the payment for 
the purchase of the goods. 
Under the Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam where (amongst other things) The 
Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but were in fact fraudulent. 
But the Code also says it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier. I cant know for sure what the intentions of the seller were. So, when considering the above, 
I need to decide whether the evidence suggests it is more likely than not that the seller 
intended to defraud Mr R. Having carefully done so, I dont think it can reasonably be said 
that Mr R has been scammed. 
From what Ive seen, I am satisfied the website Mr R used to find the supplier of the goods is 
a legitimate website, which allows businesses to sign up and sell their goods internationally. 
The site processes the transactions between the buyer and seller, and it appears to offer 
some degree of buyer protection by way of a trade assurance. 
Im mindful of Mr Rs views in respect of the trade assurance and how he feels the 
representative for the supplier used excuses so that this protection would be out of time. As 
outlined above, Mr R has provided some messages between him and the representative for 
the seller in which he was given information about when he could expect delivery of the 
goods. While I can acknowledge Mr Rs beliefs that what the representative told him were 
excuses, this in and of itself isnt clear evidence to support this.  And in any event, I do not 
consider this point in and of itself enough to conclude the seller set out from the outset with 
the intent to deceive Mr R or that it had no intention to provide the goods from the start. 
Our investigator referred to enquiries hed made into the supplier and while there was limited 
information, he explained that it appeared the company was registered in China and that the 
representative did work for it and dealt with its trade on the website - although at the time of 
his view it seemed the representative was no longer with the company. Our investigator 
added that at the time of checking the company it was still selling goods on the website 
which he wouldnt expect if it was not a legitimate business.
I do note Mr R has raised that the representative/supplier is no longer active on the website 
which he thinks is because they know theyve been caught out. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr R has said as well as that of our investigator. While 
the information our investigator referred to is no longer available to me, this does not 
automatically mean this is a scam. I have to also keep in mind that there are a number of 
reasons why a company may decide to leave/remove themselves from a website. So, the 
fact the supplier may no longer be on the website Mr R found it through, again does not 
automatically mean this is in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
NatWest during its investigation also received information which said the merchant had 
confirmed that this was an actual transaction that happened between the buyer and the 
seller via the merchants website. The seller shipped out the goods according to the 
agreement but currently the buyer (the end user) has difficulties when clearing the goods 
through custom. I accept Mr R has said hes not been contacted by customs and feels this is 
an excuse the representative for the supplier used. But again, Ive not been given any clear 
evidence to show that this is the case.   
With all the above in mind, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that the seller was 
acting with the intent to defraud Mr R at the point he made the payment. So, I do not 
consider this can reasonably be categorised as a scam. It follows that Im satisfied the CRM 
Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask NatWest to refund the money Mr R has paid for the 
goods. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Rs dispute is a private civil matter between him and the 
seller. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr R. But overall, for the reasons 
Ive explained, Im unable to fairly say NatWest should reimburse the money he paid to the 
seller.For completeness I can see Mr R has raised he should have received a refund under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 or through a chargeback scheme. But as Mr R didnt pay the 
seller using a NatWest debit or credit card, he doesnt have any protection via either of these 
mechanisms. 
Ive also considered the level of service Mr R received. It is accepted by NatWest that the 
level of service Mr R received was not as expected, specifically in regard to the time taken to 
resolve his complaint and for the incorrect information given to him. NatWest has paid Mr R 
£300 in recognition of this. While I can understand why Mr R is unhappy with the service he 
received, I dont consider any poor service to have affected the outcome NatWest ultimately 
reached. And so, I think the £300 paid by it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
make no further award on this point. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman