DRN-2849415
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the administration of the surrender of his mortgage endowment 
policy with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
What happened
In 2000 Mr B took out a unit-linked mortgage endowment policy with a 20-year term. The 
policy was due to mature in May 2020.
In early 2020 Mr B was concerned that the COVID-19 pandemic would affect the value of the 
policy and he decided to look into surrendering it early. He contacted Aviva at the beginning 
of March 2020 and was given a surrender value of just over £17,700. He was told that this 
price was not guaranteed. Mr B has told us he also asked for a historic surrender value and 
that was almost £300 more. Mr B asked how to surrender the policy and Aviva sent him the 
necessary information and documentation the same day. Enclosed was a surrender quote, 
which confirmed that the value wasnt guaranteed and that the amount he would receive 
would depend on the unit prices on the day after the papers were received at Avivas offices. 
Mr B completed the relevant documentation and posted it with the policy document back to 
Aviva on 5 March 2020. He contacted Aviva the same day and was given another surrender 
value of slightly over £18,000. Again, he was told it wasnt guaranteed. 
Aviva received the documentation on 9 March 2020. Mr B called Aviva that day and was 
given a surrender value. He was told that it would take 24 hours to scan the papers onto the 
system to allow the surrender to be processed. The member of staff confirmed that she 
thought the unit price for 9 March 2020 was the one that would be used to calculate the 
surrender value. Later in the conversation she confirmed that this would be the case. 
The policy was surrendered using the unit price of 10 March 2020, as Avivas process was to 
surrender as at the working day after the instructions were received. The surrender value 
paid was around £680 lower than the surrender value Mr B had been orally given on 
9 March 2020. 
Mr B complained. Aviva responded and explained that when it receives a surrender request 
its standard process is to surrender it the following working day. It was satisfied that it had 
paid Mr B the correct value for his policy. To apologise for the mistake in not telling Mr B that 
the surrender would be calculated using the following working days price, Aviva paid him 
£50.
Mr B wasnt happy with Avivas response and asked this service to look at his complaint. He 
highlighted that Aviva hadnt told him that it used the unit price for the next working day. He 
was also unhappy that he had to wait for a hard copy of the required forms to be sent to him, 
rather than being able to download one or sent via email, which he considers added to the 
loss he believes he suffered. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and she recommended that Aviva 
increase the compensation payment to £150 in total. However, she didnt think that Aviva 
had done anything wrong in following its standard procedures, which while not explained 
properly in the telephone call of 9 March 2020, had been detailed in the surrender quote 
Mr B was sent on 2 March 2020.
Aviva accepted the investigators conclusions, but Mr B didnt. He wasnt happy that the 
investigator hadnt challenged the process Aviva has in place. He reiterated that he 
considered that Avivas processes caused him to receive a lower surrender value that he 
should have. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view of the complaint and Mr B asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not the role of this service to tell a financial business how it should operate. All 
businesses will have processes in place and as long as they are applied consistently to 
consumers, they arent something we would interfere with. This includes how information is 
provided, such as the surrender pack sent to Mr B and the next working day unit price being 
used for surrenders. It appears in this case Aviva applied its normal process to the surrender 
of Mr Bs policy, so I cant find that it did anything wrong. 
Not that it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint, I would also confirm that 
calculating surrenders as at the working day following the receipt of a request or paperwork 
is not unusual within the investment industry to ensure that all consumers are treated the 
same when a request is received. The same applies to sending documentation by post, 
rather than other means, given the confidential nature of the information contained and the 
potential security issues with other methods of communication, such as email. 
I would at this point explain that when we consider redress because of an error made by a 
business, we aim to place the consumer in the same financial position as they would have 
been in if the error hadnt occurred. In this case the error was Mr B being given incorrect 
information about the unit price that would be used in calculating the surrender value. He 
should have been told the following days price would be used and that is the price that was 
used when his surrender value was calculated. As such, Mr B didnt suffer a financial loss by 
the mistake Aviva made.
That said, the incorrect information Mr B was given led to him being very disappointed and 
upset about the surrender value he received. I agree with our investigator that £50 is not 
sufficient to compensate him in the circumstances and that this should be increased to a 
total of £150.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement of the complaint I require 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr B a further £100 to make a total compensation 
payment of £150.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 Derry Baxter
Ombudsman