DRN-2973739
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc did not refund payments he says he did not authorise to a 
scam investment company.
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr R was looking for an investment opportunity online and came across Maxigrid. 
He spoke a representative (the agent) who told him Maxigrid was regulated by the 
FCA. 
Mr R says the agent pressured him into loading more funds onto his Maxigrid trading 
account on the promise that he would receive better returns. 
The agent also told him that his investment would be easy and risk free. 
Mr R says the agent told him there would be a three-week cooling off period. 
Mr R didnt sign any agreements with Maxigrid but provided a copy of the front and 
back of his debit card to them following the agents request  he understood this to 
be for tax purposes. 
Mr R says he only authorsied one payment to Maxigrid but they then debited two 
further payments from his TSB Visa debit card  linked to his current account - 
between 13 May 2020 to 19 May 2020 without his consent. The total payments in 
dispute are £4,750.
He approached TSB for assistance in recovering all of his money. 
TSB originally handled Mr Rs dispute as a fraudulent claim and refunded £4,750 to him 
whilst it looked into things further. It processed chargeback claims on Mr Rs behalf but the 
claims were defended by Maxigrids bank as they were able to evidence that Mr R set up an 
account with Maxigrid and accepted the terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She concluded that shed seen technical 
evidence from Maxigrid that evidenced the disputed payments were made from the same 
location as the undisputed payments. She didnt think Mr R had the required technical 
evidence for TSB to have assisted with chargeback claims.
 
In a call with the investigator on 12 August 2020, Mr R accepted that he did agree to the 
payments he disputed and his misunderstood the meaning of authorisation and agreement. 
He explains he did not believe the payments would be taken straight away. Unhappy with 
the outcome, Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He also provided some 
further information to explain the dishonest tactics used by Maxigrid to obtain further money 
from him. The complaint has been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R has now accepted that he authorised the disputed payments, I dont now need to 
consider his claim that they were unauthorised. For the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, in force at the time of Mr Rs transactions, he accepts the payments were 
made using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by TSB. Im aware that Mr R 
told our investigator that he is not familiar with computers and the agent remotely accessed 
his laptop using software called any desk and talked him through the payments. This is why 
the technical evidence supports that the payments were made from the same location as 
they were done (with the assistance of the agent) on Mr Rs laptop and he was aware the 
payments were being made. I appreciate Mr R didnt know they would leave his TSB current 
account immediately but these must be regarded as authorised payments. This is the case 
even though Mr R believes he was the victim of a sophisticated scam. It follows that I cannot 
agree the disputed payments were unauthorised. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. TSB) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover 
investment trading at the time of Mr Rs payments. Visa cover situations whereby investment 
traders prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balances and this 
misrepresentation rule was applicable at the time of Mr Rs payments. 
However, this rule (code 13.5) required TSB to present dated evidence that Mr R had an 
available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that 
he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day. Mr 
R confirmed he was blocked from his Maxigrid trading account at the time of his complaint, 
so he wouldnt have been able to obtain this evidence. 
However, Mr Rs complaint to TSB was not that he couldnt withdraw his available balances, 
he claimed that he didnt authorise all of the payments to Maxigrid. So TSB assisted him by 
attempting chargeback claims for the disputed transactions. Maxigrids bank successfully 
defended the chargeback claims and provided evidence that Mr R opened an account with 
them and authorised the disputed payments. Because of this, TSB didnt have any grounds 
to push Mr Rs chargeback claims any further. I dont think TSB had the required evidence to 
enable them to pursue Mr Rs chargeback claims, so I dont think it acted unreasonably by 
not taking the claims any further.
I do recognise that some of the tactics used by Maxigrid sound as though Mr R was misled 
and pressured by the agent. Whilst I dont see that TSB have made an error, it does not 
mean that Mr R cannot pursue his claim against Maxigrid. Ive noted that Maxigrid held 
passporting rights through the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the FCA have since 
revoked their passporting rights and cancelled their registration with it. The FCA provide 
details explaining how UK customers who are not happy with any aspect of the handling of 
their trading account with Maxigrid can complain. Ive included a link to the relevant section 
on the FCAs website that explains this further should Mr R wish to pursue his complaint 
against Maxigrid:https://www.fca.org.uk/news/statements/cyprus-cfd-firms-maxiflex-ltd-trading-europefx-
maxigrid-limited-trading-dualix-agm-markets  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that TSB Bank Plc acted unfairly or 
unreasonably with regard to Mr Rs disputed transactions claim, so I am unable to uphold 
this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman