DRN-4355934
The complaint
Miss D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Miss D says that she saw an advert on an online marketplace for a kayak for £300. Miss D 
was interested and messaged the seller to see if the kayak was still available and then 
offered to buy it for £225. Her offer was accepted, and Miss D suggested a delivery method 
through a well-known company costing £2.99. The seller provided his partners bank details 
and Miss D made a bank transfer on 25 June 2022. The kayak wasnt delivered, and the 
seller stopped responding to Miss D. Miss Ds partner contacted the same seller to express 
an interest in the kayak and was told it was still available.
Miss D reported what had happened to Monzo via its chat on 30 June 2022.
Monzo hasnt signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code) but has agreed to consider claims in line with it. Having done so, 
Monzo relied on an exception to reimbursement saying Miss D didnt complete enough 
checks to verify the seller was genuine and the kayak existed. It also said that no funds 
remained in the recipient account. 
Miss D was unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to this service. She felt 
Monzo should reimburse her and noted that the funds went to another Monzo account. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. She 
said Monzo couldnt fairly rely on an exclusion to reimbursement for a number of reasons, 
including the fact the seller had an account since 2007, had a high rating and positive 
reviews with particular emphasis on being trustworthy, the price was reasonable for a 
second-hand kayak and the delivery was arranged through a reputable company. 
Miss D accepted the investigators findings, but Monzo didnt. In summary, it said:
- Miss D had no reason to believe the kayak existed or was in a good condition. The 
picture on the advert also appeared on other sites including a very large online 
retailer.
- Miss D didnt view the kayak in person or at least ask to see a video of it. The 
marketplace advises not to buy items a buyer hasnt seen. 
- There was no pressure to make the payment and Miss D should have walked away. 
- The messages Miss D exchanged with the seller demonstrate she asked few 
questions before bank details were shared. 
- The marketplace advises not to pay by bank transfer and the fact Miss D has paid by 
this method before and received goods as expected is irrelevant.
- It provided a scam warning.
- Reviewing a sellers profile doesnt constitute due diligence especially as social 
media as a whole is notorious for being fake and distorting the truth.
- The price was too good to be true. Monzo provided links to the exact same kayak 
and said the price was over £500.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Miss D authorised the payment in this case. 
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is 
the victim of an APP scam, like Miss D. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm (Monzo in this case) to establish those exceptions 
apply. Under the CRM Code, Monzo may choose not to reimburse Miss D if it can 
demonstrate that Miss D made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing 
that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 
I dont consider Monzo has demonstrated it can fairly apply this exclusion for the following 
reasons:
- At the time she made the payment, Miss D had no reason to think the seller would 
not keep to their side of the bargain, given her positive experiences of buying other 
items in the past and the good feedback the seller had received. The seller was 
Highly rated on the marketplace with a rating of 4.6 out of 5 and had reviews which 
referred to the fact he was trustworthy. 
User feedback and reviews are an integral part of the online marketplace experience 
and its not unreasonable for Miss D to have felt reassured that she was dealing with 
a trusted and established seller. Im not persuaded that Miss D ought reasonably to 
have had any concerns given the information Miss D had, which indicated she was 
buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. When Miss D discussed delivery the 
seller said he knew where the local delivery drop-off point was as he used it 
regularly, making himself sound like a legitimate seller. 
Monzo has referred to the fact that that social media is known for distorting the truth. 
But I think we need to remember that a lot of genuine sales take place on the 
marketplace and that those without knowledge of fraud and scams are far less likely 
to approach a purchase with the degree of scepticism suggested by Monzo. The 
marketplace itself also encourages buyers to look at a sellers profile, reviews and 
listings. 
- I accept that it would have been advisable to view the kayak in person. Given the 
large distance between Miss Ds address and the sellers location though, this wasnt 
realistic so I can understand why Miss D didnt explore this option. With the benefit of 
hindsight, it also would have been helpful to have requested a video or further pictures of the kayak. But this still wouldnt have been any form of guarantee that the 
seller would send the kayak as agreed  it would just have demonstrated that a 
kayak existed.
- The price was reasonable for a second-hand kayak, and this is what Miss D found 
when she completed some research before making the payment. Ive seen evidence 
from a large online retailer that it was selling the same kayak new for just under £400 
(including all the same accessories). The eight month old kayak Miss D sought to buy 
was advertised for sale at £300 and the seller accepted an offer of £225. Sales of 
items on marketplaces can have a degree of negotiation around the price and its not 
unusual for interested buyers to make offers to secure a deal. 
Monzo provided links to sites that sold the same kayak new for over £500, but the 
actual price on these websites is £429 and £429.99. Im not persuaded that Miss D 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief based on these prices either. 
- Given the value of the scam payment there was no need for Monzo to provide what 
the CRM Code describes as an effective warning. But Ive considered whether the 
warning Miss D was provided with ought reasonably to have resonated with her. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded the warning provided affects whether Miss D had 
a reasonable basis for belief. The warning refers to accounts was at risk, an offer that 
is too good to be true, double-checking who youre paying and if a customer has 
been told to ignore Monzos warning. None of these apply in Miss Ds case. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Monzo can fairly rely on an exception to reimbursement so 
should refund Miss D in full, with interest as set out below. 
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss D £225 plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of its decision not to reimburse Miss D to the date of settlement. 
If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Miss D a tax 
deduction certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman