DRN-3084457
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G applied online for a credit card from Nationwide in August 2015. This was agreed with
a limit of £1000. Mr G asked for further limit increases as follows:
In March 2021, Mr G asked to make reduced payments, and this was agreed by Nationwide.
Mr G complained that the limit increase shouldnt have been agreed by Nationwide. He was 
struggling with other debts and couldnt afford to make the payments. Nationwide shouldve 
realised this  so they couldnt have done the necessary checks. He wanted the debt written 
off, or at least the interest and fees refunded.
Nationwide said that Mr G passed their credit checks at each stage. These included 
information provided by Mr G in his application, the running of his credit card account and 
information from credit reference agencies (CRAs). Mr G hadnt made them aware of any 
financial difficulties over the years he held the card.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the initial issue of the card was OK. 
The checks were proportionate for the low limit agreed. He could see that Mr G had other 
debts, but there werent any missed payments or defaults. The decrease in the limit to £500 
was done by Nationwide as part of their limit management strategies. Mr G was then paying 
off his credit card in full each month. Looking at the two increases in limit to £1000 and then 
to £2000, he couldnt see that an income and expenditure assessment had been done to 
show Mr G could afford the payments. He could see there were other debts owed by Mr G 
and these increased a lot between December 2016 and July 2018. Hed looked at Mr Gs 
bank statements and could see payments to other lenders of £647.08 a month at the time of 
the increases. Nationwide calculated his monthly disposable income to be £469.18 in March 
2019 and £548.46 in October 2019  but these didnt look right by comparing with his bank 
statements  these showed he was just about managing when looking at his income and 
outgoings. Mr G told us that his income in the tax year to April 2019 was only £930. Mr Gs 
bank statements also showed income from his father  who was lending him money to make 
ends meet. There was a late payment fee in August 2019, and Mr G only made the minimum 
payment in September 2019  these were indications of problems. He said Nationwide 
should refund all interest and fees from March 2019 and add 8% per annum simple to any 
overpayments.
He looked at what had happened with Mr Gs payment plan  agreed on 15 March 2021. He 
could also see that Nationwide made calls to him after that date  these were unnecessary, 
Date Limit
August 2015 (new card) £1000
August 2016 (reduced by Nationwide) £500
March 2019 £1000
October 2019 £2000and he said that Nationwide should pay compensation of £100 for this.
Nationwide disagreed with the outcome regarding irresponsible lending and asked that an 
ombudsman look at Mr Gs complaint. They said that one late fee and one minimum 
payment didnt mean there were problems. On the other debts, Nationwide were aware of 
these and considered them when deciding to lend. They were included in the calculation of 
Mr Gs disposable income. They said their calculations of disposable lending were accurate. 
They werent required to ask for Mr Gs bank statements  and they didnt have them as he 
didnt bank with Nationwide. They agreed to pay the compensation of £100 for the 
unnecessary calls to Mr G after the payment plan was agreed.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether 
Nationwide acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
So  I must make a decision based in these guidelines.
Looking at the first issue of the card in August 2015  Mr G applied online and stated he had 
an income of £18500 per annum. He didnt declare any large financial commitments. And so 
 in comparison with the relatively low limit of £1000, Nationwide issued the card.  I consider 
that their checks were proportionate to the low limit agreed.
I wont consider the reduction in the limit to £500 in August 2016  as this isnt part of Mr Gs
complaint.
Looking at what happened in March 2019. Mr G went online, asked for the limit increase  
it wasnt offered to him by Nationwide, who have an opt-in policy. I think thats important 
to note. I can see that Nationwide worked out from information from CRAs that his 
disposable income was £469 a month  so that was OK. Disposable income is calculated 
after meeting essential bills. And the data comes from the CRAs which takes into account 
Mr Gs bank account activity (including the income into it) and his other commitments. I 
note that Mr G had told us that his father paid money into his bank account  and it maybe 
that this was counted as income, and therefore hid what was really going on  but I cant 
say that Nationwide shouldve been aware of that. Ive looked at Mr Gs credit card 
statements for the period up to March 2019  payments were made, and the balance was well within the limit. The balance was paid off in full in December 2018 with a credit of 
£400  so all this looked OK.
Looking at the increase in October 2019  again, Mr G went online and asked for the 
increase to £2000. Nationwide worked out that his disposable income was £548 a month. 
Mr Gs credit card statements also showed that things were OK. The borrowing was well 
within the limit. In July 2019, the whole balance was paid off  although I can see there 
was a late payment fee in August 2019 and the minimum payment was made in 
September 2019. But I dont think that these, in isolation, can be considered to be a 
problem.
The key issue for me here is what happened with Mr Gs other debts. Our investigator 
said theyd increased. And so  should Nationwide have been aware of them, and should 
the debts have caused them to make further inquiries of Mr G  such as asking to see his 
bank statements? I dont think so. Ive looked at Mr Gs credit file. Certainly by 2021  Mr 
G had a lot of other borrowing  with credit card debts of £17614 and loans of £11203. But 
Ive looked at what was showing on his record at the time of the increases  as best I can. 
It looks to me as though there were two debts of about £3125 and £2196 with two credit 
card lenders  and these were paid to date, with no problems showing. It looks like there 
were another eight agreements in place  but again, theyre all showing as paid to date.
Nationwides records show Mr G had total debts (including their own) of £4323 in 
March 2019 and £3947 in October 2019. And those looked manageable. So  it looks 
to me as though Mr Gs problems came after the credit increases with Nationwide.
So  I dont think that there were enough problems showing up which shouldve caused 
Nationwide to decline the increases or make further inquiries of Mr G  especially as the 
final limit increase to £2000 can be considered modest.
Looking at the calls made by Nationwide in March 2021  this was raised by Mr G during 
our investigation, rather than in his first complaint. Nationwide have agreed to pay 
compensation of £100. But I can see that Nationwide did make several calls after the 
reduced payments were agree to  and so these were unnecessary. But  because this 
didnt form part of Mr Gs complaint to either Nationwide or us, it doesnt form part of this 
provisional decision.
And so  having looked at all the information presented by both Nationwide and Mr G, I 
think Nationwide acted fairly. And while I can appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed, my 
provisional decision is to not uphold this complaint. This is subject to any comments that
either Mr G or Nationwide may have.
 Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Nationwide and Mr G accepted my findings.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both Nationwide and Mr G accepted my findings, I wont be departing from the 
provisional decision and for the reasons in it. And so  I do not uphold this complaint. But 
Nationwide should note that theyve agreed to pay £100 compensation to Mr G for the unnecessary calls  this didnt form part of Mr Gs original complaint and so isnt part of this 
formal decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman