DRN-4276607
The complaint
Mr R complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchills (Churchill) valuation of 
his car following a claim on his car insurance. 
What happened
Mr R has a motor insurance policy with Churchill which started in July 2022. 
Unfortunately his car was stolen on 9 September 2022 so he reported the theft to Churchill. 
Churchill valued Mr Rs car and made an offer of around £34,000. Mr R emailed Churchill to 
say he didnt accept the offer. 
Mr R provided Churchill with the invoice of his purchase which shows he bought the car for 
around £40,000 in July 2022; a few months before it was stolen. Mr R found an advert for a 
similar car for £39,850, and he said he thought he could negotiate a lower sale price. 
Churchill increased its offer to £35,887 and then again to £37,377. Mr R says he rejected all 
of the offers because he was unable to replace his car for what Churchill offered. 
Mr R complained to Churchill. Churchill said it wouldnt review the valuation further and the 
final offer was based on the trade guides. It did accept the service provided to Mr R wasnt at 
the level it should have been and paid him £400 for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied. He didnt think the policy wording was clear enough. He also 
said he suffered a loss because he wasnt paid what it cost him to replace his car. Mr R 
wants Churchill to pay him the difference between the cost of replacing the car and the 
settlement amount. He also wants Churchill to review and amend its policies and improve its 
complaints handling procedure.
So, Mr R referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things 
for him. She didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator could see the claims process was 
drawn out and difficult but Churchill had paid Mr R £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. She also said she felt the offer of £37,377 was fair so she wouldnt be asking it to do 
anything further. 
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained the terms are misleading and the offer wouldnt allow him 
to replace his vehicle, so he wouldnt be put back into the position he was before his car was 
stolen. Because Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr R has very strong feelings about this matter. This 
service isnt the regulator so we cant direct Churchill generally about how it conducts its 
business or its policies. But I can look at whether it treated Mr R unfairly. Im not in a position 
to conclude that it did here, Ill explain why.  
Churchill accept the service provided to Mr R wasnt at the level it should have been. Since 
Churchill accept this aspect of the complaint it isnt my intention to comment on this further. 
Mr R was paid £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. And in line with what I would have suggested had an offer not already been 
made.  
Mr Rs policy explains how Churchill will deal with a claim for a stolen car. It says it will pay 
the market value of the vehicle and, settle your claim by sending you a payment. The 
market value is defined as, the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make 
and model, and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
I need to consider whether Churchill used the right market value for the car under the terms 
of the policy. Standard practice is to use industry accepted trade guides which are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices by reputable dealers. I have seen 
copies of the valuations and am satisfied the correct vehicle details were used to obtain 
them. 
Churchill says its approach to the valuation is to reflect the market value of the vehicle prior 
to the incident. Its starting point is the available guides referred to above. Churchill reviewed 
its original valuation and agreed to increase it to more than the highest valuation from the 
standard trade guides. Im satisfied this figure fairly reflects the price Mr R would have had to 
pay for a comparable car at the time it was stolen. 
Mr R complains that Churchills figure is lower than the prices he was able to find and he 
hasnt seen a comparable car for the settlement value. Mr R provided an advert for a similar 
car to his own which was advertised at £38,850. But that price represents the cost of the car 
at that time, and not at the time of the loss, as specified in the policy. The variance in price 
demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science, and we usually find the valuation 
guides more reliable than individual adverts which can very vastly in price, and often 
advertised prices allow room for negotiations. 
As mentioned above the guides are based on transaction data  actual selling prices  so 
give a more realistic indication of a cars value than adverts.. It is for that reason I think the 
valuation of £37,377 is reasonable.  
I have reviewed the valuations used by Churchill to value Mr Rs vehicle. The Glasss 
valuation is £35,500. Cazana shows a valuation of £35,128, Auto Traders valuation is 
£36,716 and CAP shows £36,000. The offer from Churchill is higher than these valuations, 
and therefore I dont think its wrong for Churchill to set the pre-loss value for Mr Rs car as it 
did.. 
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that he hasnt been provided with the cost (to him) of 
replacing his car. But in order to put him in the position he would have been had the car not 
been stolen Churchill paid him the value of the vehicle at the time of the theft. If Churchill 
were to offer Mr R a further £2,000 it would put Mr R in a position known as betterment. In 
other words Mr R will have received more than the policy provides cover for.  
Taking all this into account I cant say Churchill has acted unreasonably. The terms and 
conditions set out how it will settle a claim. The guides it has used are based on actual 
selling prices for the same vehicle at the time of the theft. This takes into account the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as the mileage. And in line with the terms and conditions the valuation shows it has considered the market value at the time of loss. On that basis I 
cant say Churchill has acted unfairly or unreasonably in arriving at its valuation. 
I appreciate Mr Rs concern with the amount he was offered, and he feels it falls short of 
allowing him to buy a like for like car in a similar condition. And I understand this situation is 
more frustrating considering it arises out of an incident which isnt Mr Rs fault. However I 
cant say the offer Churchill made is unreasonable so Im not directing it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman