DRN-4120895
The complaint
Ms A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly declined her travel insurance 
claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes also includes its agents.
What happened
In August 2022 Ms A booked a trip abroad, departing on 3 October 2022 and returning on 
7 October 2022. In Sept 2022 she took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover the 
holiday  this was insured through Great Lakes.
Ms A started to feel unwell and, on the day before she was due to travel, she took a lateral 
flow test which provided a positive result for Covid-19. On 3 October 2022 she contacted the 
travel company to cancel her booking. She also submitted a claim to Great Lakes via its 
online portal on the same day, sending through a photo of the lateral flow test she had taken 
the day before.
An automated response was received from Great Lakes stating she had to complete a 
medical form with a signature from her GP to confirm she had been ill. Ms A hadnt visited 
her GP and so she researched online for a certified Covid test. She completed this on 
7 October 2022  receiving her positive test result from the company the same day. She 
provided this information to Great Lakes in support of her claim.
Ms A said she didnt receive an outcome to her claim until two months after she had initially 
submitted the documentation, this was despite her calling and emailing frequently over this 
period. Great Lakes declined her claim, stating that the diagnosis of Covid-19 hadnt been 
made within 14 days of the departure date as required by the policy. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms A complained to Great Lakes about the decision and also 
about the poor customer service and delays she had encountered. Great Lakes apologised 
for the delays but maintained that the claim wasnt covered as she had been unable to 
provide an official medically approved test within 14 days prior to the departure date. Ms A 
decided to bring her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and thought the complaint should be upheld. She 
said the photo of Ms As lateral flow test, taken the day before travel, did show the photo was 
taken in her home location and the date. And she also noted that Ms A had provided other 
official test results, albeit from a few days later which confirmed the diagnosis. So, even 
though Ms A hadnt complied with the full terms of the policy, our investigator said shed 
provided sufficient evidence and therefore thought it was unfair to decline the claim. She 
recommended that Great Lakes reassess the claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. She also found that the way the claim was handled had caused trouble and upset 
to Ms A and recommended an award of £100 in compensation for this.
Ms A accepted her view but Great Lakes didnt. It said there wasnt any independent 
corroboration of Ms As illness prior to the departure date. It said the photo of the lateral flow 
test doesnt show who took it or when the test was taken. Great Lakes said it couldnt 
consider the test taken on 7 October 2022 as evidence that Ms A was unfit to travel prior to 
departure. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms As complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Ms As claim relates to a cancelled trip due to her contracting Covid-19 the day before her 
departure. The policy has a separate section  Section 19  which sets out the cover 
provided for claims relating to Covid-19. This includes the following:
B. Cancellation and cutting short your trip
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses table for 
the level of cover you have selected, for your share of the cost of your trip as a result 
of:
The necessary and unavoidable cancellation as a result of you, your relative, 
a member of your household, travelling companion or a friend with whom you 
had arranged to stay has a diagnosis of COVID-19 within 14 days of your 
booked departure date, as certified by a medical practitioner following a 
medically approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19.
It then goes on to refer to additional conditions that apply and it states the following:
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
A copy of the positive test result for COVID-19 you received from a registered 
medical practitioner.
Any other official document or medial report confirming your diagnosis for 
COVID-19 which leads to your self-isolation, or need to cancel your trip.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
When looking at this section it is clear that the policy provides cover for cancellation if a 
policyholder contracts Covid-19 before their departure date and is unable to travel. From 
what Ms A has told us, she began to feel unwell a couple of days before she was due to go 
on this trip and took a lateral flow test which confirmed her diagnosis on the day before 
travel. Based on this information it would appear she has a valid claim under the policy.
The policy requires Ms A to provide evidence of her diagnosis, in the form of a copy of the 
positive test result received from a registered medical practitioner and any other official 
document or medical report which confirms the diagnosis. I therefore need to consider 
whether Ms A has provided evidence of her diagnosis as required.
Ms A provided a photograph of her positive lateral flow test. This photo was taken the day of 
departure and shows it was taken in her residential area. Great Lakes has said that this 
photograph doesnt show who took the test, nor does it prove when the test was actually 
taken. I accept that this photo in isolation doesnt show that it was Ms A that took the test or the date it was completed as this isnt recorded. Im satisfied this alone does not meet Great 
Lakes criteria for evidence as detailed in the policy terms.
When Ms A received the automatic response from Great Lakes upon making her claim, she 
realised she would need a certified test. Ms A ordered a test through a recognised pharmacy 
chain which would provide her with official results. This had to be sent to her home and 
therefore it took a few days to arrive. Ms A completed the test and received the positive test 
result for Covid-19 via the pharmacy chains online system the same day. Great Lakes has 
said that as this test wasnt completed until several days after departure it doesnt meet the 
policy requirement of getting a Covid-19 diagnosis within 14 days prior to the departure date. 
Ive noted Great Lakes point here, and Ive considered this carefully. I accept that the official 
test was not completed prior to the departure date, although it is important to point out the 
policy wording actually states it needs to be within 14 days of the departure  not 14 days 
prior to the departure as Great Lakes has suggested. But regardless of that, Im satisfied 
Ms A has provided reasonable evidence to show a diagnosis of Covid-19 prior to her 
departure date. This is because of the lateral flow test completed prior to her departure, as 
well as an official test a few days later.  Im persuaded that Ms A has reasonably shown she 
has a valid claim under her policy.
So overall, based on the individual circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied that it 
would be fair and reasonable to consider that Ms A has provided reasonable evidence of the 
reason for cancelling her trip as required by the policy terms and conditions. So Great Lakes 
needs to reassess the claim, under the remaining terms and conditions. 
Customer service
Ms A has also complained about the way Great Lakes has handled her claim. She has 
referred to delays and repeated requests for information. I can see that it took over two 
months for Ms A to receive the outcome to her claim and during this time she received 
various requests for information which she has complied with. Ms A has said she emailed 
replies and also called on several occasions - call backs were promised but didnt happen.
 
I can appreciate just how frustrating this must have been for Ms A who was trying to get a 
resolution to her claim. And when the promised call backs werent received, this would have 
only added to that frustration. Im also aware that Ms A had to resort to trying other avenues, 
including sending an email to the Chief Executive of the brand detailed on the insurance 
policy, to get a response from Great Lakes.
It is clear that Ms A has been inconvenienced when trying to resolve this issue. I dont think 
this was reasonable. Great Lakes has apologised for the poor customer service, which I 
think is the right thing to do. Our investigator recommended that Great Lakes make a 
payment of £100 to Ms A for the trouble and upset caused to her due to the poor handling of 
the claim. Im satisfied that this recommendation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to reassess the claim on the basis that Ms A has shown she has a valid 
claim under Section 19, Cancellation and cutting short your trip part of the policy, taking into 
account the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
It also needs to pay Ms A the sum of £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to her during the handling of the claim.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman