DRN-3706290
The complaint
Mr G complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) sent him a 
letter in error, advising he may have duplicate cover in place, under his roadside assistance 
policy.
What happened
In December 2021, shortly after his policy with AA started Mr G says it sent him a letter 
advising he may have duplicate cover through his bank account. He says he has several 
bank accounts and spent some time checking if this was the case. He says when he called 
AA in February 2022, he was told this was a generic letter sent to all new customers. 
Mr G says sending a generic letter wastes peoples time and causes worry. He says AA 
shouldnt be allowed to do this and so he complained to the business.
AA told Mr G it doesnt provide cover via the bank he uses. It says this letter wasnt meant to 
be sent to him and apologised for the inconvenience it had caused him. AA also paid Mr G 
£10 compensation.
Mr G didnt think the compensation was adequate. He says he wasnt given the opportunity 
to set out his complaint fully during the phone call with AA. He also says the business didnt 
address his concern about the practice of sending generic letters, as its agent had informed 
him. So, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says AAs letter advised Mr G he may have 
duplicate cover. She thought it was reasonable to warn a customer where there may be such 
duplication. Our investigator also says AAs letter provided a number for Mr G to call. She 
thought it reasonable that he wouldve called this before spending time contacting the banks 
he uses. She thought the apology and compensation represented a fair outcome. 
Mr G disagreed. He says our investigator didnt consider his concerns about the practice of 
sending generic letters. He still thinks the compensation offered is insufficient and so asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Ive read the letter Mr G received from AA shortly after he took out his policy. This says he 
may have AA breakdown cover through a bank account as well as with his new policy. The 
letter says, please check that these arrangements continue to meet your needs. It then 
says, We would like to speak to you about these arrangements, so please call us on 
I understand that when Mr G called AA it was established that AA doesnt have an 
arrangement to provide cover with the bank he uses. So, there was no duplication of cover. 
The business says there wasnt a need for Mr G to spend time looking through his bank 
accounts. It says he simply needed to call the number it provided.
I understand why Mr G decided to spend time checking with his banks when he received 
AAs letter. The letter does say he should check that the arrangements continue to meet his 
needs. But I also acknowledge AAs comment that he couldve contacted it first on the 
number provided, which wouldve avoided any time wasting.
I think its reasonable for AA to try and warn customers who may inadvertently end up paying 
twice for roadside assistance cover. I note Mr G says he was told the AA sends these letters 
out to all new customers. I dont dispute what he says. But AA doesnt say this in its 
complaint response or in the information it sent to our service. It says the letter was sent by 
mistake. 
The purpose of this service is to resolve individual disputes. Were not the regulator and its 
not our role to dictate how AA runs its business. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is 
the industry regulator and sets the rules for the industry to follow. Mr G may wish to contact 
the FCA if he has concerns with AAs practices, but this isnt something I can comment 
further on here.
I accept that Mr G was caused some inconvenience and I think its right that AA apologised 
and paid him £10 compensation to acknowledge this. I think this was fair.
I note Mr G isnt happy with how his complaint was handled. Specifically, that he wasnt 
given the opportunity to set out his complaint in full. Im sorry to hear about the issues Mr G 
had when making his complaint. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. 
This means I cant consider this point.
In summary although Mr G was inconvenienced in the time her spent checking his cover, I 
think AA acted fairly by apologising and paying him £10 compensation. So, I dont think AA 
reasonably needs to do any more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman