DRN-2881828
The complaint
Mr M complains about Allsop Kane & Allen Limiteds (AKA Ltd) handling of his claim for 
subsidence. He says they havent provided him with details of the claim and the payments 
made. 
  
What happened
Mr M made a claim for subsidence against his insurer. The insurer appointed a loss adjuster 
and Mr M appointed a company  which later became AKA Ltd - to assist with his claim. The 
insurer agreed to underpin Mr Ms house and the loss adjuster drew up a schedule of works. 
Mr M then signed a form of acceptance for the insurer to pay a cash settlement. A cash 
settlement of £187,512.50 was then paid to AKA Ltd. The works were then carried out by 
company S and their sub-contractors. The work was carried out between September 2014 
and March 2015. Mr M says much of the work carried out by company S was unsatisfactory. 
Mr M says he had concerns about the work carried out and the refusal of company S to 
provide specified guarantees. He also believed company S had charged for work not done 
and noted a sub-contractor had been paid an amount which was different to the amount the 
sub-contractor says they charged. Mr M complained to AKA Ltd and also asked for a copy of 
all invoices and records of payment made to all contractors from his cash settlement. Mr M 
also complained that he wasnt told at the outset the arrangement would involve a cash 
settlement being paid to AKA Ltd to manage the works. AKA Ltd responded and explained 
they had sent Mr M all documentation relating to his claim. AKA Ltd said Mr M was given a 
full breakdown of costs which enabled him to sign his acceptance of the cash settlement. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. She thought AKA Ltd should provide Mr M with 
a financial trail to show how the cash settlement was used. AKA Ltd disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Cash settlement
Mr M says, while the work was being carried out, he believed the loss adjusters were 
managing the work on behalf of the insurer. Mr M says it was only when the work was 
completed that it became clear that AKA Ltd had been paid the cash settlement and were 
using this to pay for the building works. 
I can see our investigator thinks this part of the complaint is out of jurisdiction on the grounds 
that it has been brought to us out of time. 
Were not free to consider every complaint a customer brings to us. We operate under a set 
of rules laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority and known as the DISP rules. These set out 
the extent of our powers, including the time limits that apply to our complaints. The rules say 
that, unless the business consents, or there are exceptional reasons to explain the delay, 
were unable to consider a complaint made more than six years after the event complained 
about or, if later, more than three years after the consumer became, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint. 
 
I can see from a Mandate form signed by Mr M on 17 July 2013, it says he authorises AKA 
Ltd to act on his behalf and to receive any payments made in relation to the insurance claim. 
There is a form of acceptance which has been prepared by the loss adjusters and signed by 
Mr M on 22 August 2014 which says I hereby agree to accept the sum of £187,512.50 in 
full discharge and satisfaction of underpinning and structural remedial works under the 
above claim number occasioned by or consequent upon the subsidence which occurred at 
[Mr Ms property]. A cheque for £187,512.50 is then sent to AKA Ltd in September 2014. 
 
So, taking this into account, I feel its reasonable to expect that Mr M wouldve been aware of 
his complaint about the cash settlement in August 2014  as this is the point at which he 
signs the form of acceptance for the cash settlement to be paid to AKA Ltd. And, that this 
would be in final settlement of his claim against his insurer. I understand Mr M says he only 
became aware once the work was completed in 2015 that AKA Ltd had been paid the cash 
settlement and were using this to pay for the building works. But, I havent seen any 
information which supports Mr Ms argument that the date of the event should be taken as 
2015. Mr M referred his complaint to our service on 14 September 2020, so this part of his 
complaint has been made more than six years after the event complained about. And, more 
than three years after Mr M became, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he 
had cause for complaint.   
 
Mr M says, over the years, he has had to raise complaints about different parties which 
delayed his referral to us. He says AKA Ltd referred him to company S who in turn asked 
him to communicate through their solicitor.  Mr M says the solicitors didnt respond to his 
emails so he referred them to their professional body. He says he then tried to get 
information from the appointed structural engineer who only responded after Mr M referred 
him to the relevant professional body. I acknowledge that Mr M may well have had to seek 
information from other parties and escalate his concerns to other professional bodies but I 
dont think that shouldve prevented Mr M from raising his complaint with us sooner. Mr M 
had concerns about the cash settlement and the information shows he wouldve been aware 
that this should be a complaint against AKA Ltd. And, even though he might well have been 
waiting for further information from other parties, I cant see any of that information would 
change the position in relation to Mr Ms complaint about the cash settlement. On this basis, 
Im not persuaded this amounts to an exceptional reason for the delay in bringing his 
complaint. So, it doesnt change my decision that this service cant consider the merits of this 
part of Mr Ms complaint. 
Managing the works
Mr M complains that AKA Ltd didnt manage the works properly and adequately. He says 
they failed to ensure the work was completed to the required standard. The examples Mr M 
provides are, the floor wasnt restored correctly and the structural wall restraints werent 
fitted correctly. 
I think its important firstly to establish the scope of AKA Ltds involvement. The terms and 
conditions set out the agreement between AKA Ltd and Mr M and describes the scope of 
work which AKA Ltd will cover. This says AKA Ltd agree to advise and represent you in 
connection with the insurance claimYou agree for us to exclusively take over all future representations and negotiations with the insurers without intervention from you, unless 
specifically arranged. You also agree not to contact your insurers relating to your claim 
unless previously agreed with us in writing, to ensure that we can conduct the insurance 
claim in accordance with these terms and conditions on your behalf, including (but not 
limited to) liaising with your insurance company and dealing with the recovery of monies that 
may result from your Insurance Claim. 
I cant see there is any section in the terms and conditions which says AKA Ltd will be 
responsible for quality assessing the work or generally managing and supervising the day to 
day building works. Despite this being the case, there is evidence here which persuades me 
that AKA Ltd were involved in managing the works. AKA Ltds involvement first starts with 
them writing to the loss adjuster to say they are acting for Mr M on all matters relating to the 
on-going subsidence claim at the property. AKA Ltd also suggest the specification of works 
should go out to tender. AKA Ltd say they are now taking over control of this claim and 
request a meeting on-site to discuss all issues.     
I can see from emails AKA Ltd sent to Mr M they were involved in many parts of the claim. 
For example, theres an email in July 2014 where AKA Ltd explain they have arranged a 
meeting with company S to discuss the way forward including start dates. There are further 
emails where AKA Ltd explain they have attended on-site to check the work which has been 
carried out and have requested confirmation from company S that the works are still on 
schedule. They also confirm to Mr M they will call him to give him a full update on the works 
and progress.   
Taking this all into consideration, I think AKA Ltd were managing the works, so Ive looked at 
whether they have acted reasonably. Mr M has provided correspondence from a structural 
engineer who says his role was as a consultant to [AKA Ltd], as and when they required my 
services. He also says I had no official role other than to assist and advise [AKA Ltd] when 
they called upon me to do so I can see from emails AKA Ltd sent to Mr M, they send him 
updates on the works following reports they have received from the structural engineer.  
I can see AKA Ltd also liaised with company S to deal with issues Mr M had with the work. I 
can see AKA Ltd email Mr M in December 2015 and refer to an on-site meeting they had 
with company S in April of that year. This led to the structural engineer providing a Certificate 
of Structural Accuracy and the remaining snagging list was agreed with company S. AKA 
Ltd said they then received further correspondence from company S to say the snagging 
items remain outstanding and have been deferred on several occasions. They say, they 
understand Mr M is abroad for some extended periods throughout the year but due to the 
time which has lapsed they ask Mr M to get in touch with company S to agree a date for 
them to carry out the works. They say company S have suggested two dates in January 
2016. AKA Ltd say that there is nothing more they can do with regards to the outstanding 
snagging list and will leave it to Mr M to arrange this directly with company S. 
AKA Ltd say, at the time of the meeting in April, they believed their involvement was at an 
end with only the provision of the necessary guarantees and Structural Engineers Certificate 
left to be sent to the insurer. AKA Ltd say these were sent to allow his subsidence cover to 
be reinstated. I can see the insurer writes to Mr M in September 2015 to confirm they are 
satisfied with the structural engineers report and full cover for subsidence, landslip or heave 
has been reinstated with effect from the inception date of 27 February 2015. 
The December email from AKA Ltd then says We have provided you with all of the 
requested information and documentation relating to the claim, and the works, and would 
reiterate that our involvement and instructions are now at an end and we are closing our files 
accordingly. From the information Ive seen, I cant say AKA Ltd have acted unreasonably in managing 
the works. Their role here has been to assist Mr M in his claim which includes, primarily, 
receiving the cash settlement and arranging for payments to be made for the building works. 
The quality assessment of the work has been carried out by a structural engineer and this 
led to him issuing a Certificate of Structural Accuracy. So, I think AKA Ltd have taken 
reasonable steps in carrying out visits on-site to make sure the work was still on schedule. 
And by appointing a suitable expert for advice and assistance. I also think AKA Ltd acted 
fairly by assisting Mr M when dealing with issues he had about the work. 
I note Mr M says the problems were much more than snagging items and included the 
structural matter of the lateral restraints to the walls and major problems with the floors. Mr 
M also gives his account of the communication between him and company S to complete the 
snagging items. He says company S only gave one weeks notice in June 2015 but this 
didnt give Mr M sufficient time to make arrangements. Mr M says he also told company S, 
he wouldnt be available the first week of September but then didnt hear back until 
December. A date in January 2016 was agreed but company S cancelled this. Mr M then 
explained he wouldnt be available from April through to June and a date in September was 
agreed. I understand Mr M was left frustrated and inconvenienced in arranging the 
outstanding work but I cant hold AKA Ltd responsible for any delays by company S. 
Mr M believes AKA Ltd chose company S to carry out the works and that he had no 
involvement in their selection. Mr M has provided information which shows the loss adjuster 
confirms company S werent engaged by the insurer and that is why they decided to deal 
with the claim by way of a cash settlement. The information provided by Mr M does suggest 
company S werent appointed by the insurer but Ive looked at the terms and conditions and 
this allows AKA Ltd to appoint an expert. This says If the specialist service of other 
professionalsare required then their fees will be payable by you, if not covered by the 
insurers. If fees are covered by insurers we, ourselves, will engage the services of the 
professional of our choosing. So, I dont think AKA Ltd have acted unreasonably if they 
have appointed company S.     
Managing payments 
I understand Mr M feels AKA Ltd shouldve withheld payments until certain guarantees were 
provided, for example, a guarantee for the lateral restraints to the walls. I note Mr M also 
says his ability to get company S to remedy any faults was compromised by AKA Ltds 
failure to withhold payment until the work was completed satisfactorily. 
The Mandate and terms and conditions do make it clear that AKA Ltd will receive the cash 
settlement and will manage payments. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AKA Ltd to 
make payments to company S or any sub-contractors. I do understand Mr Ms concern in 
this respect but I havent seen any evidence that Mr M asked AKA Ltd to withhold any 
payments or that AKA Ltd agreed to hold off any payments until Mr M was satisfied with the 
work. Ive seen invoices from company S to AKA Ltd which were raised at separate intervals 
while the work was being carried out. So, I cant say AKA Ltd have acted unreasonably in 
paying these invoices. 
Mr M says AKA Ltd obtained a further payment from his insurer, without his knowledge. AKA 
Ltd accept this was the case as additional work was required which wasnt in the original 
specification of works. 
Ive seen an email from company S to AKA Ltd setting out what the additional work is and an 
estimate of their fees. AKA Ltd then email the loss adjusters asking for an additional 
payment to cover this work. The terms and conditions say You agree for us to exclusively 
take over all future representations and negotiation with the insurers without intervention 
from you This allows AKA Ltd to arrange any further payments from the insurer. And, given that company S had set out the additional work which was required  and not factored 
into the original specification  I dont think AKA Ltd have acted unreasonably in making a 
request for an additional payment.     
Invoices 
I understand Mr M wants receipts and invoices to show how the payments from his insurer 
have been used. AKA Ltd say copies of all invoices have been sent to Mr M between 2014 
to 2015 and any copies were sent to him when they closed their file. 
I can see AKA Ltd email Mr M in September 2018 and explain they understand Mr M is 
asking for a breakdown and information relating to his claim. They say this was sent to him 
on 16 October 2015 and they confirmed the same again on 7 December 2015. AKA Ltd say 
it was confirmed to Mr M again that their involvement was at an end and they were closing 
their files. They say on 21 August 2015 all certificates were sent to the insurer and the 
insurer confirmed this to Mr M in their letter of 23 September 2015, and they then reinstated 
Mr Ms subsidence insurance for his property. They say Mr M was given a full breakdown of 
costs at the time which enabled him to sign his acceptance letter of the cash settlement.  
AKA Ltd say the claim started in 2010 and they didnt have the facility to retain paperwork for 
claims of that age. They explained they had closed their file in 2015 and sent all 
documentation to Mr M. AKA Ltd refer to a spreadsheet which they say provides a full 
account for all monies they received. 
Ive seen the spreadsheet and this does provide a breakdown of how the monies have been 
used and who the payments have been made to. Its clear however that Mr M still has 
concerns and I cant say those concerns are unjustified. Mr M has provided information 
which shows a discrepancy between what the structural engineer says he was paid and 
what the spreadsheet shows he was paid. Mr M also says the additional payment requested 
by AKA Ltd relates to work which wasnt actually carried out by company S. Mr M also refers 
to discrepancies between other invoices and overpayments he feels have been made.
Mr M says hes considering legal action in relation to the work that has been carried out and 
needs to get full details of what has been paid. I dont think the spreadsheet provides this as 
it doesnt include details of the additional payment. And, I dont think its unreasonable for  
Mr M to ask for evidence of a complete financial trail. I acknowledge AKA Ltd say that all 
paperwork was returned to Mr M and hes able to get any copies from his insurer or from the 
contractors. Its not clear why Mr M didnt receive the invoices AKA Ltd say were sent but his 
further requests do suggest these havent been received by him. However, AKA Ltd 
managed the monies and made all payments, so they should provide the relevant financial 
information to Mr M. I cant ask AKA Ltd to provide information they say they dont have in 
their possession but they should be able to obtain a financial trail from their bank showing all 
monies coming in and all payments out. This should include details of who the payments 
were made to and on what date. AKA Ltd should also provide Mr M with a copy of all 
invoices and, if they dont have these, then they should obtain a copy of all invoices from all 
contractors paid out of the cash settlement and provide these to Mr M. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances as the information I have seen shows that all contractors 
used in the claim were appointed by AKA Ltd.    
AKA Ltd say their bank have closed the branch in their county so they arent able to visit a 
branch and they no longer have a relationship manager. I do take this on board, but I dont 
think this prevents AKA Ltd from contacting their bank to obtain the relevant information. 
I can see AKA Ltd say they have sought legal advice and been told the statute of limitations 
has passed so they dont need to provide any information to Mr M. I would note that it is not 
the statute of limitations I am applying here. Rather it is our rules. They are the DISP rules I have referred to above. And, because Mr M referred this part of his complaint to us within six 
years of the event being complained of, I can look into this complaint and direct AKA Ltd to 
take appropriate steps to put things right. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AKA Ltd have acted unreasonably in not providing Mr M with a full 
financial trail. So, AKA Ltd should send Mr M a complete financial trail from their bank 
account showing all monies coming in and all payments out in respect of Mr Ms claim. This 
should include details of who the payments were made to and on what date. AKA Ltd should 
also send Mr M a copy of all invoices and, if they dont have these, then they should obtain a 
copy of all invoices from all contractors paid out of the cash settlement and provide these to 
Mr M. If AKA Ltds bank or the contractors are unable to provide any evidence of the 
financial trail or invoices then AKA Ltd should ask for a letter from them confirming this and 
send this to Mr M. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Allsop Kane & Allen Limited must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman