DRN-4217085
The complaint
Mr Q complains that he suffered delays in being able to withdraw money from his pension 
and suffered distress as a consequence of communication and administrative failures by The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
What happened
Mr Q had a Pension with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) with a 
future retirement date of 1 April 2022. In early August 2022, Mr Q contacted Prudential from 
overseas, where he is currently living, to make a claim regarding his pension. Mr Q sent 
Prudential a message through their online portal to say he had been holding for 30 minutes 
and asked for someone to call him back.
Prudentials records indicate that Mr Q had further discussions with Prudential in August 
2022 including one occasion when Prudential tried to contact Mr Q to but were unable to 
reach him on the number listed for him.
Mr Q wrote to Prudential on 13 September 2022 to say that he had submitted a Pension 
Claim Form three weeks previously but had not heard anything since. Mr Q said he tried to 
log on to the mobile application MyPru but was informed through the live chat function that 
his policy was closed and that he was no longer able to access the service. Mr Q asked for 
confirmation that the funds had been transferred.
On 21 September 2022, Mr Q wrote to Prudential again to say he had not received a reply to 
his previous enquiry. Mr Q said that, although his account had been closed, he had received 
no sign of the transfer into his UK bank account. He asked Prudential to email him and 
included a telephone number advising that the form would not allow him to include the 
country dialling code for his country of residence.
Mr Q also contacted Prudential by telephone whose records show that Mr Q had been 
worried as to where the funds from his pension were. The records also show that Mr Q 
asked for the funds to be paid immediately as he had waited long enough and was 
concerned by the lack of response.
Mr Q called Prudential again on 27 September 2022 seeking an update and, following a 
further unsuccessful attempt by Prudential to contact Mr Q by telephone, Prudential sought 
to escalate this internally. This appears to have been done on 5 October 2022 following 
which payment was made to Mr Qs UK bank account as requested.
Following a complaint by Mr Q, Prudential wrote to him on 20 October 2022 apologising for 
the level of service he had received and offered him £1,579.01 by way of financial loss on 
his claim amount, the sum of £25 to cover the cost of the telephone calls and a distress and 
inconvenience payment of £175.
In response, Mr Q wrote to Prudential on 28 November 2022 to say that he did not feel the 
compensation offered was adequate for the distress, the costs of telephone calls and time 
spent trying to arrange the claim and deal with Prudential.
Prudential sent Mr Q a final response letter on 1 December 2022 in which they listed Mr Qs 
concerns along with the findings of their further internal investigation. Prudential then offered 
Mr Q £83.09 for additional call costs and a further £250 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused bringing the total compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
£425 (although the investigator and Mr Q have both referred to £450, the actual amount was 
£425 with the discrepancy likely to relate to the £25 that was originally awarded for the cost 
of telephone calls).
Mr Q then referred his complaint to us. Our Investigators initial view was that:
Prudential have acknowledged they caused delays in paying out the pension and this is 
not in dispute
Prudential have conducted a loss assessment for the period of delay and this is in line 
with the approach recommended by us.
Prudential have fairly addressed the point in relation to loss for the period and Mr Q did 
not lose out financially as a result of their mistakes
Prudential have also acknowledged that their customer service fell short on multiple 
occasions
The compensation Prudential offered was satisfactory because the amount of £425 falls 
in line with the award we would make for this sort of error.
After receiving the Investigators view, Mr Q wrote to the Investigator to say that he did not 
think £425 adequately compensated for the distress caused by the poor customer service. 
Mr Q said he thought Prudential should have been upfront and honest about what was 
happening with his pension. He said that he thought the service was appalling and extremely 
stressful and that he thought the company may have ceased to exist and his pension funds 
subsequently lost.
Mr Q said that he had been forced to continue to work past his retirement age of 65 as a 
result of the issues with his pension. He also said that he felt that some of the distress could 
have been avoided by honesty, integrity and a return phone call. He said he did not agree 
with the Investigators findings and did not think he had been adequately compensated.
Having reviewed this additional information from Mr Q, our Investigator recommended that 
Prudential increase their compensation for distress and inconvenience by a further £200 to 
account for the loss of expectation in relation to when he could take his retirement benefits.
Mr Q replied to say that he did not accept the revised offer as he did not feel this was 
adequate compensation for the stress, hurt, humiliation and extra 4 months he had to 
continue working all of which he said was caused by Prudential not meeting the standards 
expected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and considered the view given by our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Mr Qs initial complaint to us focused on the compensation awarded for distress and 
inconvenience caused by the issues he faced in trying to make a claim from Prudential. In 
providing their final response, Prudential have acknowledged that they failed in meeting the 
required standards of service and that Mr Q had suffered both financial loss and distress as 
a result.
The correspondence following Prudentials final response letter and our Investigators view 
shows that there is no dispute over the amounts awarded for the costs of the telephone 
conversations or the result of the loss assessment carried out by Prudential. The only 
outstanding issue therefore is the level of compensation offered to Mr Q for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the service failures which is currently set at £625 (the original 
£425 paid by Prudential plus the additional £200 suggested by our investigator and agreed 
to by Prudential, which Mr Q considers to be inadequate).
In considering whether or not this amount is sufficient, I have looked at the circumstances 
surrounding the service failures and how these affected Mr Q. I think it is reasonable that 
someone in Mr Qs position would be likely to be anxious and distressed at a lack of 
information about his pension claim. Mr Q had clearly requested confirmation about the 
status of his pension and where the funds that Prudential told him had been transferred had 
gone. It is clear that Mr Q suffered as a result of the failures of Prudential and that this could 
have been avoided had Prudential communicated properly with Mr Q and followed up his 
queries more promptly.
I am conscious that some factors affected communications between Prudential and Mr Q 
including the time difference between the UK and Mr Qs country of residence and the issues 
with international dialling. However, my view is that it should be fairly clear from reading 
messages from Mr Q that the time during which these calls were attempted were not a factor 
and Mr Q had taken steps to ensure the correct number together with the full international 
dialling code were passed on to Prudential so that he could be contacted. This is part of the 
failure on the part of Prudential.
Mr Q also said he had experienced issues with the mobile application he used to access and 
manage his account. Whilst I can imagine that this added to the anxiety and distress Mr Q 
experienced, I am aware that technical issues can occur with this type of service and, in 
itself, isnt always reason enough to say someone has suffered significant distress and 
inconvenience. It does however increase the importance of prompt and accurate 
communication with customers and this is something that they appear to have failed to 
ensure.
In addition to the poor communication from Prudential, Mr Q also experienced delays in the 
transfer of his pension funds as requested. It is not clear from the correspondence what 
caused this delay but I can see that, once the matter was escalated internally by Prudential, 
in October 2022, the transfer was completed within a few days.
There were therefore a number of factors which contributed to the distress experienced by 
Mr Q and I appreciate that the significance of the money concerned, being what he referred 
to as his life savings, and the worries about this being lost were extremely troubling for him 
and his wife. I do not think there is any doubt that Prudential should have done more to avoid 
this situation and to rectify it quickly once Mr Q made them aware of it.
Having said this, I think that £625 compensation for the distress and inconvenience arising 
from all of Prudentials failures is sufficient. It is always difficult to quantify how a situation has affected an individual and to put this into a monetary context. In this case, we are 
looking at the anxiety of a situation in which Mr Q was concerned for the security of his 
pension fund because he was unable to receive the information he needed from Prudential. I 
note Mr Qs comments that he also had to delay his retirement date which he would not have 
had to do had he been able to get the reassurances he needed from Prudential. In 
considering Mr Qs experience, I do have to also take into account the mitigation from 
Prudential which includes the situation being slightly complicated by the time difference and 
difficulties in contacting Mr Q.
Considering these factors relating to how Mr Q may have been affected together with the 
compensation he received for the other, more easily quantifiable, losses, I think the sum of 
£625, in total, is adequate for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Prudential has already paid Mr Q compensation for the delay in him being able to draw his 
pension and for the cost of his phone calls, both of which Mr Q has agreed to. It has also 
paid the £425 which it originally thought was enough for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr Q experienced. Prudential must therefore now pay Mr Q a further £200 to better reflect 
the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Qs complaint. If it hasnt already done so, The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited must now pay Mr Q £200 in order to bring its total 
distress and inconvenience payment up to £625. It doesnt have to do anything else in order 
to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman