DRN-3516488
The complaint
Mr M complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited wont refund a payment made on 
his credit card to a ticket site for tickets to see a singer.
What happened
In March 2020 tickets were purchased to a see a singer in concert in July 2020 using Mr Ms 
John Lewis Financial Services Limited credit card (JL for short). The total cost charged to his 
card was just over £200. Not long after purchasing the tickets the show was postponed and 
then postponed again due to the Pandemic. So he complained to the ticket seller asking for 
a refund. The ticket seller said that no refunds were due, but the show had been 
rescheduled. Mr M made clear that the dates were not convenient, and he wanted a refund. 
Mr M continued to pursue his refund, but the ticket seller stopped communicating. So Mr M 
took his dispute to JL.
JL said it wouldnt consider the matter. It said this was because it didnt think it could pursue 
a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in its view. So it didnt 
think it could do any more for Mr M. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, they thought JL had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms 
request for a refund so asked it to refund him the cost of the tickets. JL having been chased 
repeatedly has chosen not to respond. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the ticket seller, which isnt a financial 
services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. I can see from Mr Ms representations 
to the Investigator that Mr M is (understandably) focusing on the actions of the ticket seller. 
However whatever the issues there maybe with the ticket seller and just because Mr M feels 
hes lost out it doesnt necessarily follow that JL has treated Mr M unfairly. 
As the card used here is part of a card network there are certain rules for disputes regarding 
card transactions. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary scheme and consumers do 
not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case though that this Service 
considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. JL can only be held responsible if it has 
failed in some way. And the question of whether or not JL has treated Mr M fairly is the only 
question I can decide upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive 
made sufficiently clear.
could JL challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr M 
does here, JL (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. Mr M 
makes clear that the transaction was made with the ticket seller for that amount and that it 
appears on his statement correctly. So I dont think JL couldve challenged the payment on 
the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue 
that Ive just set out.
JL is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Ticket seller would then receive that chargeback 
request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, 
then JL should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can 
take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not JL) who will then 
make an independent determination on the matter. So JL isnt solely responsible for the 
decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it can 
fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
JL says that there was no evidence to show that a refund was due and thus it didnt raise a 
chargeback. However I dont think this is enough. Ive considered the card network guidance 
issued in response to the arrival of the pandemic. It is in the format of questions and 
answers:
Question: The merchant has cancelled services and offered the cardholder a reasonable 
alternative for future service. The cardholder declines this reasonable alternative but the 
merchant refuses to process a refund. Does an issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: Yes. Reasonable alternatives for future services cannot be imposed on the 
cardholder in lieu of a refund, unless the merchant has a right to provide the cardholder with 
such reasonable alternatives based on the terms and conditions properly disclosed to the 
cardholder at the of the purchase, or based on applicable government legislation or 
regulations.
Before the ticket seller stopped communicating with Mr M it pointed to its website terms and 
conditions. But Mr M noted that those terms had been amended between purchase of the 
tickets and when this issue was addressed with the ticket seller. Mr M asked for the terms 
and conditions from the point of sale, but the ticket seller never provided them.
This service has access to technology which can see previous iterations of websites. By 
using this the Investigator established that the only terms and conditions apparently in effect 
at the point of purchase were dated January 2018. The only part of the terms which consider 
what happens if tickets are not wanted is the following term.
Once purchased, your ticket is your responsibility. Tickets are non-refundable or
transferable
There is no comment on what happens with regard to rescheduling decisions taken by the 
ticket supplier or cancellation either. So when considering this in the light of the network 
guidance above it seems clear that the ticket seller doesnt have a right to a reasonable 
alternative under the agreed terms. And accordingly the chargeback should have been made 
and based on what is known the investigator explained that they thought JL should refund 
Mr M the cost of the ticket. This has been put to JL and it has been repeatedly chased for its 
consideration of these arguments. But it has not responded. Finality in such disputes is 
important for all parties and it is unfortunate that both JL and the ticket seller have not 
corresponded fully.Clearly JL has treated Mr M unfairly by not raising a chargeback. I say this because the 
network guidance had been issued in May 2020 but JL confirmed to this service in July 2020 
its position regarding not raising a chargeback. And considering the date of expected 
delivery of the service (that is when the singer was due to sing) it is clear the chargeback 
would have been within the time limits set out in the chargeback rules. So this complaint 
should succeed.
And as an aside I think this dispute would likely have been successful under the Consumer 
Credit Act as well, but I do not have to further delineate on this due to my already finding Mr 
M has been treated unfairly.
Putting things right
Its clear that Mr M has lost out on the opportunity of having a successful chargeback due to 
JLs failing. JL may argue its unfair to decide on the likely outcome of a chargeback. But I 
dont think this makes a significant difference here because if I made an award purely on 
such a loss of opportunity on the basis of distress and inconvenience it would be for around 
the same amount as Mr M points to in terms of direct loss considering what happened 
anyway. 
So I think the fairest solution is that JL must rework Mr Ms credit card account by applying 
the refund for the transaction amount on the date it declined his claim. And where this 
reworking of his account leads to periods of positive balance interest at 8% simple should be 
paid to Mr M on those amounts for those periods.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited and direct it to pay Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman