DRN-3789531
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that HSB Engineering Insurance Limited (HSB) has 
declined a theft claim made under their commercial plant insurance policy.
What happened
C has a commercial contractors plant insurance policy underwritten by HSB. This covers, 
amongst other things, damage to, and theft of, owned and hired plant.
In March 2020 a claim was made to HSB for the theft of an asphalt recycler. HSB ultimately 
declined the claim as they said a policy endorsement relating to security requirements of the 
asphalt recycler hadnt been complied with.
C approached this service as it was unhappy with HSBs decision as it felt it had met the 
intention of the endorsement in other ways.
Our investigator looked into matters, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
HSBs decision was unreasonable based on the information he had at that time. However, C 
provided some additional information (an additional photo), which hadnt been provided to 
HSB previously.
Therefore, our investigator said that HSB should consider this new information and if C 
remained unhappy with whatever decision was reached by HSB after taking this into 
account, we would consider it as a new complaint. HSB considered the photo and 
maintained the claim declinature. So, C brought a new complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered things taking into account all the information and upheld the 
complaint in part. Whilst he noted all parties accepted the endorsement hadnt been 
complied with, taking into account the photos, he was of the view that C had gone above 
what the endorsement required in securing the recycler. Therefore, he said it wasnt fair for 
HSB to decline the claim on this basis alone. He also addressed a number of points made by 
HSB in support of their overall claim decision. The investigator said HSB should reconsider 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
However, the investigator also noted HSB had some other concerns about the claim, such 
as insurable interest of the recycler, which theyd put C on notice of previously. But HSB 
hadnt relied on these concerns to decline the claim at this stage as they hadnt fully 
investigated or reached a conclusion on those. 
So, whilst the investigator said it wasnt fair for HSB to rely on the breach of endorsement, 
he also said HSB may now wish to investigate those concerns further  so he wasnt 
directing them to deal with the claim at this stage, and instead to reconsider it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned above, HSB has relied on non-compliance of a security endorsement when 
declining the claim. So, this is point Ill be considering here in my final decision. HSB has 
other concerns, such as insurable interest, but its not fully explored these or relied on these 
concerns to decline the claim (although it has put C on notice of its intentions to investigate 
these concerns further if needed). So, I wont be reaching a decision on those provisional 
concerns of HSB  Ill solely be considering the actual reasons HSB has declined the claim 
at this stage.
I should also clarify, there were numerous concerns and arguments presented by HSB to our 
investigator, which they addressed individually. However, I dont intend to comment on every 
point or argument which has been raised. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the key 
issues relevant to reaching a final decision on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it 
reflects the informal nature of this service and my role within it. Having said that though, Id 
like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the points and information they have 
provided when reaching my final decision, even if I havent commented on them specifically.
The policy endorsement
HSB says C hasnt complied with the following endorsement in its policy:
Endorsement wording
The following is a condition. If you do not keep to this condition, and that condition is 
relevant to your claim, we may refuse to pay part or all of the claim.
In respect of the following contractors plant:
You must comply with the following security practice whilst contractors plant is under 
your control and is left unattended overnight or at weekends:
-Compressors, decontamination units, pressure washers, trailers and other 
towed items of contractors plant are to be immobilised by the application of a 
suitable wheel clamp;
So, this says a wheel clamp must be applied to immobilise the recycler (which is a towed 
item). It isnt disputed there wasnt a wheel clamp in operation and the endorsement hasnt 
been complied with by C. However, C argues that it removed all the wheels, so it says in 
effect the item was more secure and it says it has fulfilled the intention of the endorsement - 
to immobilise the recycler.
I accept, as does C, that it hasnt complied with the specific endorsement here. Its clear the 
intention of this endorsement is to immobilise the recycler and therefore reduce the risk of 
theft of towable equipment to C and HSB.
However, in the absence of a wheel clamp, if it is accepted that the wheels were removed, in 
my view that non-compliance doesnt increase the risk to HSB, or make the recycler more 
mobile than it wouldve been with a singular wheel clamp. I say this because one wheel 
clamp on a four wheel vehicle would mean only the one clamp would need to be removed in 
order to tow it. However, if it has no wheels at all in the first place, to tow it in a similar way 
as you would by removing the singular clamp, a thief would need to bring four wheels to mobilise it, or to remove it by craning or dragging it from its location (which they could also 
do if there was a wheel clamp). So, whilst I acknowledge the endorsement wasnt strictly 
complied with, if all wheels were removed, I dont think this would have increased the risk as 
a result of the non-compliance.
In any event, the wording of the policy says that HSB may decline the claim. In my view this 
implies that in some cases they may decline the claim, but in others they may not. So, on 
strict non-compliance with the endorsement, there may be occasions where the claim is still 
accepted by HSB. Based on this wording, it doesnt appear that compliance with the 
endorsement is necessarily conditional for a successful claim to be made.
However, regardless of this, whilst I do consider whether the terms of a policy have been 
strictly complied with, and/or applied by strict application by an insurer, my remit also 
extends to what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In these circumstances, C recognises it hasnt complied with this endorsement as it didnt 
have a wheel clamp in operation. However, C says the asphalt recycler was more secure as 
it had removed all four wheels. In support of its position, C has provided photos of the 
asphalt recycler without wheels and a separate photo of the wheels.
In response to this photo evidence, HSB has raised a number of points, this includes:
They are unsure if the photo of the recycler without wheels is the one which was 
stolen
The photo of the recycler is several years old and taken at a different location and 
prior to when C said it bought it. And it was only provided after HSB had declined the 
claim for non-compliance of the endorsement
Whilst the photo of the recycler from several years before shows it without wheels, 
there is nothing to say this would be how C wouldve stored it after it took ownership
The wheels photo was taken more recently and was at a different location and site
C didnt mention the wheels had been removed when being interviewed by the loss 
adjuster - despite being asked about security
C said he thought the recycler may have been towed during the call with the loss 
adjuster, which HSB says implies it had wheels on at the time
The burden is on C to demonstrate the wheels were removed, rather than HSB to 
show they werent
Ill consider some of the key points above in deciding whether, on balance, Im persuaded 
the wheels were removed, and whether HSB has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances of the case when declining the claim.The asphalt recycler 
HSB has said they are unsure whether the recycler without wheels in the image provided by 
C is the one which has been stolen. 
C has said that this is the recycler that was stolen, and the image is of the same make and 
model of recycler being claimed for, and I havent been provided with anything from HSB 
which demonstrates that isnt the case. In fact, I would question how feasible it would be to 
find a photo of another recycler, the same make and model of the recycler being claimed for, 
which had its wheels removed  which HSB say is an unusual thing to do.
HSB also say the photo metadata shows the image was taken several years prior to the 
loss, at a different location, and when the item was owned by another company. 
I recognise the metadata shows several years prior to the loss and a different location. 
However, I cant see that C has disputed this, or implied the photo was taken on site at the 
time or location of loss. 
In addition, the previous owner of the recycler was a company which one of Cs directors is 
also a director of. And C has explained that the recycler was sold from one company to the 
other. I dont find Cs explanation unreasonable here and Im satisfied this clarifies why the 
images were taken before the loss, and whilst the item was owned by another company  
which C is also the director of. This also reasonably explains why it would have been in a 
different location at the time the image was taken.
Evidence of wheel removal
HSB has said the metadata from the image of the wheels is from a different location to the 
site the recycler was stolen from. They have questioned this, along with why the wheels 
wouldnt be stored at the same site as the recycler was being used.
I dont think the fact the wheels were pictured in a different location is unusual. I say this 
because they were pictured at the site of one of the directors of Cs other companies, and 
that is also the site of the company which sold the recycler to C. Whilst HSB has said this 
site used to be a scrap yard, I dont think that demonstrates the wheels pictured arent those 
from the stolen recycler, or that they belonged to the scrap yard rather than C/the recycler.
In addition, HSBs own internal notes reflect they think the wheels are the ones from the 
recycler. And I havent been provided anything which shows on balance that they arent. I 
also dont think its unreasonable that the wheels would be stored at another location (which 
is also Cs directors, albeit for a different company), given the purpose of the removal was to 
reduce the risk of theft of the recycler overall.
HSB asked C for any images to support its position, and C provided this following HSBs 
request. And the metadata shows this was taken only a few days before being provided, 
which in my view, accepting they are the wheels for the recycler in question, that they 
werent on the recycler at the time of theft - hence why they are able to be photod after the 
recycler had been stolen.HSB has also said that just because the recycler was stored without wheels several years 
before, doesnt mean it would be stored in that way once in the ownership of C. However, 
given C had the same director as the previous owner of the equipment, as I mentioned 
above, on the contrary, I dont think it would be unusual to continue to store the item in the 
same way. In addition, C has also explained it always secures trailers and other towable 
plant in this manner to reduce the risk of theft, and I dont find its explanation of why it 
removes wheels unreasonable or illogical.
The call with the loss adjuster
HSB has raised several concerns about the call between C and the loss adjuster. They say 
they fail to understand why C didnt mention the wheels had been removed during this call 
when being asked about the security of the recycler. They also say that C said it thought the 
recycler may have been towed away, which indicates it most likely had the wheels on at the 
time.
Whilst I note HSBs concerns, having listened to the call, Im not in agreement. During the 
call the loss adjuster asked C about any security devices installed on the recycler. C said 
there was a tow lock, but that was the only security installed. Given C was asked about 
installed security devices, I dont think the answer C gave was unreasonable. Its clear the 
loss adjuster was asking about built in security, rather than how C secured it beyond that. 
Therefore, whilst C didnt mention the removal of the wheels of its own accord without 
prompt, in the context of the call and the question asked, I dont think this was unreasonable.
Ive also considered HSBs point about C mentioning the recycler may have been towed, and 
their assertion that means it must therefore have still had the wheels on. Having done so, I 
dont agree.
In the full context of the call, the loss adjuster asks C if it has any thoughts on how the 
recycler may have been stolen. They also verbally recognised that this would be impossible 
to answer. C said either it could have been towed, or put on to a vehicle, possibly lifted or 
winched onto something like a recovery vehicle. I dont think Cs answers were 
unreasonable here. It is clear C was speculating about possibilities as that was what was 
asked by the loss adjuster. 
Towing it couldve been by dragging it without wheels onto a low loader, or the thieves 
couldve equally come with a set of wheels. Either way it was speculation on possibilities by 
C, as it couldnt have known for certain either way. 
In any event, beyond towing or lifting onto another vehicle, Im not entirely sure there would 
be any other way in which it could have been stolen more generally, so I dont think the 
speculative answers C gave are unreasonable, or go any way to support HSBs arguments 
that the recycler mostly likely had the wheels on.
The evidence provided
HSB says it is for C to demonstrate the wheels were removed, rather than for them to 
demonstrate they werent, in line with the relevant legislation, including the Insurance Act 
2015. Ive considered above the impact of Cs non-compliance with the endorsement, which 
as I say, doesnt appear conditional for a claim to be successful in any event. And as I also 
outlined, whilst I take into account the relevant policy terms, rules and legislation, my remit 
also extends to what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.I cant know with certainty either way whether the wheels were removed or not. And where I 
cant know with certainty, I need to decide on balance what I think is most likely to have 
occurred when reaching a decision on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case.
Having taken everything into account, Im persuaded that on balance, based on the 
evidence, it is most likely the wheels were removed at the time of loss for the reasons Ive 
outlined above. And whilst I accept the endorsement wasnt strictly complied with, as Im 
satisfied on balance it is most likely the wheels were removed, Im also of the view that not 
complying with the endorsement wasnt material to the loss and didnt increase the risk as a 
result of the non-compliance. I think C went above and beyond the endorsement when it 
immobilised the recycler by removing all its wheels.
Therefore, I dont think HSB has acted fairly or reasonably when declining the claim based 
on the failure to comply with the endorsement, and I dont think failure to comply with the 
endorsement increased the risk of loss. And Im persuaded that C has done enough to show 
on balance the wheels were removed at the time of loss too. 
With this in mind, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case 
for HSB to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms.
However, I should outline here that Im not directing HSB to deal with the claim at this stage. 
Thats because they have a number of other concerns which theyve put C on notice of, such 
as insurable interest of the recycler, which theyve not fully explored or reached a position on 
and may need to investigate further. My decision here is solely in relation to the failure to 
comply with the endorsement, and whether on balance the wheels were removed. 
Once HSB has considered matters further, and if C is unhappy with the position ultimately 
reached, it may be able to refer a new complaint about that new decision to this service.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct HSB Engineering Insurance 
Limited to:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman