DRN-2415751
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the service she received from her roadside assistance policy with 
Green Flag, as provided by UK Insurance Limited, after her car broke down.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss T was travelling with three teenagers to an amusement park. While 
driving, she experienced issues with the steering wheel. She called Green Flag however and 
an engineer attended around 1.30pm but found no issue with the car and she was told it was 
all right to drive. However approximately 30 minutes later while driving, the steering function 
and power failed. Miss T requested another call out around 3.30pm.
While waiting for an engineer to attend, Miss T made several calls to Green Flag for an 
update. She told them that she and her travellers were in a vulnerable position as they were 
stranded on a busy dual carriageway and the lay-by was closed. She also asked whether 
she was entitled to a hire car but she was told because she had been recovered more than 
10 miles away from her home, she wasnt entitled to one.
As a roadside repair wasnt possible, Green Flag arranged a relay service. The engineer 
arrived around 7.30pm. Miss T, her passengers and the car were taken to a nearby car park. 
Thereafter, at around 9.30pm a recovery truck arrived to take them and the car to a garage 
in her home area and they arrived around 11.30pm. Miss T said she thought she was being 
taken home and she was unclear what was happening. She said the agent was rude and 
told her that she would have to make her own way home. Left in an unknown location, Miss 
T said she was distressed and she had to make arrangements to be picked up by parents of 
the children who were equally upset by the experience. 
Miss T complained to Green Flag. They initially offered £60 compensation but she felt it 
wasnt enough given what had happened. Green Flag re-considered the complaint and 
accepted their level of service couldve been better because there was a delay which led to 
several calls for an update and the communication by their agents wasnt what they would 
expect. They said they would provide feedback to the agents concerned and they offered 
£120 compensation for the poor level of service.
However they said it wasnt their recovery agents internal procedure to take consumers 
home after dropping their car to the chosen garage. They also said the hire car could only be 
taken instead of the long recovery and as Miss Ts car was recovered more than ten miles 
from her home address, she wasnt entitled to one. 
Unhappy with their response, Miss T referred the complaint to our service. As a result of the 
experience, she said she suffered distress and she had lost confidence in driving which has 
impacted her employment. She wanted Green Flag to apologise, to reimburse her for the 
cost of hiring a car (£130), public transport costs (£60) and amusement park tickets (£66). 
She also believed they should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They concluded there had 
been failings by Green Flag but they felt they had done enough to put things right by offering 
£120 compensation and providing feedback to the third party garage. Miss T disagreed. 
An ombudsman reviewed the case and contacted Green Flag about his initial thoughts. He 
said given the circumstances and the level of trouble and upset caused, Green Flag should 
pay a further £100 compensation to Miss T. Green Flag disagreed. Miss T said she was 
willing to accept it for the further compensation to settle the complaint. 
The case was re-allocated to me and I also made Green Flag aware of my intentions to 
increase the compensation but they maintained their position as outlined above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Green Flag have accepted there had been failings with the service provided to Miss T. 
Namely, the substantial delay in the engineer attending and the overall poor service 
received. In this decision, Ive considered whether in light of those failings, Green Flag has 
done enough to put things right and I dont believe they have. Ill explain why.
At this point, I would like to say Im sorry to hear Miss T and her young passengers had to go 
through such an unpleasant experience following the breakdown of her car. I understand it 
mustve been distressing.
Its unfortunate there was such a significant delay of approximately four hours for the Green 
Flag engineer to attend on the second occasion. I understand this was largely due to bad 
weather and an increased number of call outs, meaning it was outside of Green Flags 
control. However Ive listened to the calls Miss T made and given what she said and the 
number of calls she made, it was clear she considered herself and the young passengers to 
be in a dangerous and vulnerable position. This is because the car had broken down on a 
busy dual carriageway and the lay-by was closed. Given the situation, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Green Flag to have prioritised the call out but there is no evidence this 
happened. Even if it was marked as a priority, it is likely there still wouldve been delays but 
on balance I believe the engineer wouldve attended sooner than he did. Whilst I 
acknowledge the policy doesnt guarantee that an engineer will attend within a certain time, I 
dont believe waiting four hours in such circumstances with three young passengers was 
reasonable.  
Based on what Ive seen, Green Flag didnt provide many updates to Miss T during this time 
so understandably she was growing increasingly anxious as were her passengers. Green 
Flag said due to the volume of calls being received by their service, they were unable to 
keep her updated. However even when she did speak to an advisor or agent, Im not 
satisfied they clearly explained what was happening and the next steps. I can hear they told 
her that shes not entitled to a hire car but it doesnt seem they made her aware that the first 
agent would provide a relay recovery service and thereafter a second agent would take them 
and the car to a garage. In fact, she was told as the car couldnt be fixed at the roadside and 
given the garage would be closed, she would be taken home. However this was incorrect, 
Green Flag was recovering her to a local garage, nearby to her address. On this basis, Im 
not satisfied Green Flag clearly explained the recovery process which led to Miss Ts confusion and further upset. I can understand why Miss T thought her and her passengers 
would be taken home. 
Based on what Green Flag has said about customers who found themselves in such 
situations, I understand it isnt their policy to take customers home but as a gesture of 
goodwill their agents may do so. In this case, it appears she wasnt given any further 
information or reassurance by the recovery agent. Green Flag said they would provide 
feedback to their agents and I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
This meant after several hours of being stranded, during which Miss T and her passengers 
said they went without food and water, they were left in an unknown location late at night 
without any means of getting home. I appreciate the upset and worry they mustve felt. 
Fortunately Miss T was able to contact friends and family to collect them.
Overall, I dont think Green Flag provided the level of service as one would expect. Given the 
young age of the passengers and the location of the car when it broke down, they failed to 
prioritise the call out, keep her updated and the communication by them and their agents 
wasnt satisfactory. Given these circumstances, I believe Green Flags initial compensation 
of £120 is not enough. I believe they should pay a further £100 compensation to Miss T for 
the extent of the trouble and upset caused. Meaning the total level of compensation should 
be £220 in order to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint. To put things right, 
UK Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag should pay a further £100 compensation to 
Miss T for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman