DRN-3453843
The complaint
Mr J complains that British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim and cancelled 
his HomeCare policy. He also complains about the service he received.
What happened
On 29 November 2021, Mr J took out a home emergency policy with British Gas. It covered 
his boiler and central heating.
On 2 December 2021, Mr J made a claim. Following a missed appointment, British Gas 
attended on 10 December. However, the engineer concluded that, due to a significant 
corrosion issue, Mr Js boiler and central heating wasnt suitable for cover. 
Mr J complained about the following:
- When the policy was taken out, his boiler and central heating were in full working 
order. British Gas told him it was unable to complete the first service for a few 
months, but it confirmed his cover.
- In respect of the claim, British Gas cancelled the first appointment without notice. The 
engineer who attended a few days later was unprofessional, aggressive, and he 
flouted Covid safety measures. 
- The engineer simply looked at the hot water cylinder and said it wasnt covered due 
to corrosion. He didnt look at the boiler. The corroded pipework is external to the 
hot water cylinder, it was previously fitted by British Gas, and it doesnt affect the 
internal workings of the hot water cylinder.
- The engineer left a checklist with another customers details on it. The comments say 
the boiler is faulty, but it works fine, and it wasnt checked by the engineer.
- British Gas sent him an email on 18 December confirming the policy was active. The 
email also said cover had been added for kitchen appliances, which isnt something 
he had asked for. As such, he was left confused about what cover was in place.
British Gas issued a final response, which set out the following:
- The cover was subject to a first service. The engineer found the central heating 
system to be unsuitable for cover due to a pre-existing fault.
- The engineer concluded the fault that caused the claim was a worn pump, which was 
causing intermittent overheating. He also identified there was significant corrosion, 
which could lead to further problems.
- Due to Mr Js comments, British Gas offered to revisit to reassess the situation. 
However, Mr J declined.
- British Gas apologised for the incorrect customer name on the paperwork, and it 
noted this was due to a system error.
- British Gas also apologised that the engineer didnt observe Covid safety measures 
and it noted the matter would be dealt with internally.
- The policy will be cancelled, with a full refund. British Gas will also issue £130 
compensation for the failings it had identified.
Mr J noted he had since called out a plumber who simply adjusted the thermostat and the 
boiler continued to work as it should. He also referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought British Gas 
had acted in-line with the policy terms. He also thought the refund and compensation were 
fair. Because Mr J disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedule confirms the cover is subject to a first service. The policy terms explain 
the first service will be carried out as soon as possible after the agreement starts, and if a 
pre-existing fault is found during the first service, British Gas can cancel the boiler and 
central heating cover.
Whilst British Gas couldnt initially complete the first service for a few months, due to Mr Js 
claim, an inspection did take place shortly after the policy started. Furthermore, irrespective 
of Mr Js plumber being able to resolve the issue which led to his claim, British Gas found 
a pre-existing fault which could lead to future claims. In those circumstances, I dont find 
British Gas acted unfairly by relying on the terms to cancel the cover. Ive also not seen 
anything that leads me to believe the policy was mis-sold.
Although Mr J says the corroded pipework was previously fitted by British Gas, and it doesnt 
affect the internal workings of the hot water cylinder, hes not provided supporting evidence. 
On the other hand, I consider British Gas offer to revisit, to reassess the situation, to be 
reasonable. Mr J was entitled to decline the offer. But, in my view, British Gas cant 
reasonably do anything more.
Mr J says the engineer was aggressive and he flouted Covid safety measures, and based on 
his comments, I accept the service and care wasnt as it should have been. I also accept his 
frustration at the missed appointment, the automated email confirming cover after the visit, 
and the wrong customer details on the paperwork. 
However, overall, I consider the £130 compensation to be fair acknowledgment of the impact 
those issues likely had on Mr J. He hasnt said anything that would have led me to award 
significantly more, had British Gas not already made this compensation payment.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman