DRN-3858619
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a van that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle Financial Services Limited (trading as Oodle Car Finance).
What happened
In December 2020 Mr P took out a hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a used van. The 
van was just over four and a half years old and had travelled approximately 83,611 miles. 
The cash price was £15,147. Mr P says he wanted a reliable van to use for his business as a 
courier  and that this one was advertised as being in excellent condition.
In January 2021 Mr P took the van back for repairs under the dealers 30-day warranty after 
the timing belt snapped. The dealer carried out repairs to the water pump, as well as fitting a 
new belt and tensioner.
In February 2021, Mr P paid for a new clutch and mass flywheel to be fitted, costing 
£1,477.53.
On 2 April 2021 the van lost power whilst driving. Mr P says it was very difficult to find a 
garage who could diagnose and fix the problem due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He says he 
called the dealer, but they told him they were too busy to send a recovery truck that day and 
wouldnt be able to look at the van until 22 April 2021. Mr P says he couldnt afford to take 
that much time off work.
Mr P paid to have the van recovered to another garage and rented a replacement van for 
work. He says the garage told him that a conrod had snapped and damaged the engine. He 
says he eventually managed to source a replacement engine online, and had it fitted. He 
says he collected the van in June 2021 - but it only travelled around five miles before 
breaking down again.
Mr P says he paid to have the van transported back to the garage and discovered that the 
replacement engine had also seized. He says the engine supplier refused to accept liability 
for this, so he had no option but to pay for a second replacement engine.
Mr P contacted Oodle about the problems with the van. Oodle sent him a form to complete, 
asking for further information. Mr P says he didnt complete this because he didnt know 
what the full cost of fixing the problem would be.
Mr P says the second replacement engine didnt arrive until September 2021. Hes told us 
that the garage couldnt get the van running properly after this was fitted, and that he had to 
pay for a new DPF and further diagnostic testing. Mr P says the van was then driveable, with 
no warning lights coming on, but it still didnt feel quite right.
Mr P says the van broke down again in January 2022  losing power in the same way it had 
done in April 2021. Hes told us that he simply cant afford to pay for any more diagnostic 
testing.
In February 2022 Mr P complained to Oodle about the problems with the van. The following 
month he sent them further information about the costs hed incurred. Oodle responded 
saying they hadnt upheld his complaint, because he hadnt provided adequate proof that the 
issues hed experienced were either present or developing at the time the van was sold. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to us.
In July 2022 Oodle arranged for the van to be inspected by an independent engineer. The 
engineer concluded that the engine which the owner is purchasing are not fit for purpose.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said that, as Mr P hadnt given Oodle 
the opportunity to investigate or repair the problem, she didnt think it would be reasonable to 
hold them responsible for issues hed had with engines hed bought from a third party.
Our investigator thought the van had been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr 
P. As hed been able to drive the van for around four months before the engine problems 
started, she thought the problems were due to a reasonable level of wear and tear.
Mr P asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Ill summarise the points he 
made:
He provided a copy of a document from the garage that carried out the initial work in 
April 2021, after the engine seized for the first time. He stressed that he didnt accept 
the mileage hed done caused the damage to the van.
The van was described as being in excellent condition, with one previous owner, and 
having been highly maintained. So it should have covered around 150,000 miles 
before requiring such major components to be changed.
Hed taken good care of the vehicle, carrying out repairs as soon as issues occurred. 
When the clutch failed, he put it down to bad luck.
When the engine seized, the dealer said the van was outside the 30-day warranty 
and they wouldnt be able to look at it for three weeks.
The replacement engines hed purchased were reconditioned. The fact that theyve 
seized so many times leads him to believe theres an underlying issue, which is still 
unknown.
Hed first contacted Oodle in June 2021, and theyd asked him to provide 
documentation. Hed told them that repairs were ongoing, and that hed submit 
everything once the van was in working order.
Oodle had put barriers up at every point of contact, fielding him through incompetent 
call handlers and constantly making false promises that managers would call back to 
discuss the issues and find a resolution.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has told us that hes a sole trader, and that he wanted the van Oodle supplied under 
this hire purchase agreement for his business. Entering into contracts like this as a lender is 
a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can look into Mr Ps concerns about Oodle.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 (the Act) is relevant to this 
complaint. It says where a creditor supplies goods under a hire purchase agreement such as 
this one, theres an implied term that those goods are of satisfactory quality. It goes on to 
explain that things like fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects and durability can be 
aspects of the quality of goods.
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would regard the quality of the 
goods as satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. So, in this case I take into account that the van supplied to Mr 
P was just over four and a half years old and had travelled approximately 83,611 miles. It 
cost £15,147, which is significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was new.
I also bear in mind the way the van was described. Ive seen a copy of the dealers advert, 
which says:
in excellent condition one company owner from new plus preregistration part of a highly 
maintained fleet, clean straight van well presented drives great on the road only covered 80 
odd thousand miles nothing for a [brand named] van comes fully wood lined in the rear and 
hard wearing floor everything works as it should.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect this van to be in perfect condition. This was a 
commercial vehicle that had already covered nearly 84,000 miles, so I think some wear and 
tear was to be expected. But I do think theyd still expect it to be free from anything other 
than minor faults when it was supplied, and to be able to drive it for a reasonable amount of 
time without major issues.
Its not disputed that there are now faults with the van. Ive seen a copy of the independent 
engineers report dated 22 July 2022, which confirms the engine has seized. The question 
for me to consider is whether the problems Mr P has experienced were due to issues that 
were already present, or underlying, at the time Oodle supplied the van to him.
Was the van of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P?
Ive considered each one of the issues Mr P has raised. If I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome in this 
case.
1. January 2021  timing belt, tensioner, and water pump repairs
Both parties have told us that the van was taken back to the dealer within the first month, 
because the timing belt had snapped. Im pleased to hear that the dealer repaired that 
issue at no cost to Mr P.2. February 2021  clutch, dual mass flywheel and gearbox issues
Ive seen a copy of the invoice for this repair, dated 25 February 2021. It says:
Replaced clutch kit with cylinder and dual mass flywheel. Advise possible gearbox 
repair req.
By this time the van was almost five years old, and the invoice records the mileage to 
have been 90,963. So, although Mr P had only had the van for around two months, I note 
that it had travelled around 7,350 miles during that time.
A clutch is an item that may need to be replaced during the lifetime of the vehicle due to 
wear and tear. Various factors can affect the length of time a clutch will last, including 
driving style.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the clutch and dual mass flywheel needed replacing due 
to a fault that was present or developing when the van was supplied to Mr P. In the 
absence of any further evidence about this, I consider it most likely that replacement of 
the clutch and dual mass flywheel was needed due to wear and tear - which isnt 
something Oodle are liable for.
Mr P has told us that he later took the van to another garage, who told him that the 
gearbox would probably be alright for another year and a half. Ive seen no further 
evidence about this. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that there was a 
fault with the gearbox at the time Oodle supplied the van.
3. April 2021  engine problem
Mr P has shown us a copy of an invoice for recovery of the van to his home address on 2 
April 2021. This records the reported fault with the van to have been limp mode.
After being told that the dealer wouldnt be able to look at the van for three weeks, Mr P 
decided to take it to another garage. Ive seen an invoice dated 12 April 2021 for 
transporting the van to that garage. That invoice records the vans mileage to have been 
95,157 at the time.
Mr P has provided a copy of a document from the garage, dated 18 October 2022, 
describing what they found. They said:
it was clear that the engine would not rotate.
I removed the cylinder head and found damage to one of the pistons on the same 
cylinder. I then removed sump pan and inspected the crankshaft and found one of the 
connecting rods had came loose, bending the con rod.
I advised Mr P that the engine would need to be fully reconditioned or replaced.
Im satisfied that this was a significant fault, causing the engine to fail. But I bear in mind 
that Mr P had by this time had around 11,500 miles use of the van. Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me that this issue was present or developing at the time Oodle supplied the 
van.
Mr P says he expected the van to cover 150,000 miles without the need for major repairs, 
especially as it was described as being in excellent condition and highly maintained. Ive 
given careful thought to the point hes made here. But I do think its reasonable to expect 
repairs may be required on a five year-old commercial vehicle thats covered more than 
95,000 miles. Im not persuaded that Oodle supplied Mr P with a van that wasnt 
reasonably durable.I do appreciate Mr Ps disappointment that the van hasnt met his expectations. But having 
carefully reviewed all the evidence hes provided, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that this 
van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time Oodle supplied it.
And even if I was persuaded that the van hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the outset, Id 
need to bear in mind that its no longer in the same state as when Oodle supplied it to Mr P. 
Mr P has provided details of the costs hes incurred in buying two replacement engines and 
having repairs carried out. Hes told us that this hasnt resulted in the problems being 
successfully diagnosed and resolved - further diagnostic and repair work is still needed to 
get the van running.
Ive seen a copy of the report Oodle obtained from the independent engineer, dated 22 July 
2022. This says:
as we could see no issues with the fitment of the engine it leads us to the conclusion 
that the engine which the owner is purchasing are not fit for purpose and therefore the 
owner should contact the supplier for a refund have a new engine fitted at the cost of the 
engine supplier.
the sales agent was not responsible for supplying the engine and therefore is not the 
sales agents responsibility for the quality of the product purchased.
I note that this work had already been carried out by the time Mr P gave Oodle the full details 
of the problems with the van.
In these circumstances - even if Id seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the van 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P - I wouldnt consider it fair and 
reasonable for me to direct Oodle to cover the cost of unsuccessful repairs carried out by 
third party garages.
I said I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I invited both parties to send me any 
further information or comments theyd like me to consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Oodle didnt respond.
Mr P asked me to reconsider my decision, setting out reasons why he felt the van hadnt 
been fit for purpose when he bought it. Much of this restated information hes previously told 
us, so I wont repeat that here. Ill summarise the additional points Mr P made:
Hed needed a van that would be reliable for as long as possible, with regular use 
and high mileage. Having researched this, he confidently expected to get over 
300,000 miles from this vans engine if he looked after it. The dealer assured him this 
van met his requirements  and that it had gone through a service and multi-point 
sales inspection. 
He hadnt expected a van sold to him in December 2020 to need to be at the garage 
every month within the first four months of purchase. Fellow couriers, mechanics and 
Oodles call handlers had agreed with him that he shouldnt be experiencing such 
problems after this amount of mileage with the van.
The engine failure was not due to excessive mileage or wear and tear. At the time of 
the first engine failure the van had covered less than a third, maybe even a quarter, 
of the expected lifespan.The mechanics hed used were experts in dealing with this type of commercial van, 
having previously worked in garages specialising in this brand of vehicle. The DPF 
was replaced by an expert in that field.
The independent engineer looked at the van for a very short time - possibly less than 
an hour - during which time he took photos and confirmed that the engine had 
seized. Mr P questioned how a full inspection could be carried out without stripping 
back the engine.
The independent engineers report says this was the third engine from the same 
supplier. This wasnt correct  it was the second. The report didnt comment on the 
problems with the original failed engine. Mr P provided photos of the original engine, 
which hed had to send away as part of the exchange for the reconditioned engine.
Hed had no option but to carry out repairs as the dealer didnt show any willingness 
to help and seemed to want to wash their hands of Mr Ps problems. 
He could understand that hed possibly now be expecting to replace some major 
components if the van had been running all this time. Hed reluctantly accept the cost 
of replacing the clutch and DPF, but not all the issues hed experienced plus the 
engine.
Mr P said that hes in extreme levels of debt - and has to work six or seven days a week to 
survive. He said hes more than £36,000 out of pocket on van hire costs alone. He 
questioned how he could be expected to survive through this situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr P for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. But having 
reconsidered the points Mr P has made, together with the additional photos hes provided, 
Ive seen no new information to persuade me that I should depart from my provisional 
findings. 
Mr P says he didnt expect the van to be in the garage so often in the first four months. But 
bearing in mind that it had already covered around 83,611 miles when Mr P got it  and that 
it travelled around 11,500 more miles over the next four months - I do think its reasonable to 
expect some parts to need replacement due to wear and tear. 
The evidence Ive seen shows the repairs needed in the first month were carried out under 
the dealers warranty. Ive seen no evidence showing the problems with the clutch and dual 
mass flywheel were due to problems that were either already present, or developing, at the 
time Oodle supplied the van. 
Mr P says he expected this vans engine to run for 300,000 miles without major problems, 
especially bearing in mind the description given in the advert. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the dealer promised Mr P the engine would be capable of that kind of mileage 
without experiencing issues. 
Mr P feels very strongly that the engine shouldnt have failed after less than a third of the 
lifespan hed expected from it. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded that this means Oodle supplied Mr P with a van that wasnt reasonably durable. 
Ive seen no evidence to show this van wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ive carefully reviewed the additional photos Mr P has now provided. I dont find these photos 
to show what caused the original engine to fail  or whether this was due to an issue that 
was present when Oodle supplied the van. So these photos dont change my decision.
In my provisional decision I explained that, even if Id seen sufficient evidence to persuade 
me that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P, Id need to bear 
in mind that its no longer in the same state. I wouldnt expect the independent engineers 
report to comment on the original failed engine, because this had already been replaced by 
the time the engineer inspected the van. And I wouldnt consider it fair and reasonable for 
me to direct Oodle to cover the cost of unsuccessful repairs carried out by third party 
garages.
Mr P says he had no option but to get the van repaired, because the dealer showed no 
interest in getting the problems resolved.  Im not persuaded of this. The evidence Ive seen 
shows Mr P was told the dealer wouldnt be able to look at the van for three weeks. I dont 
consider that to be unreasonable, bearing in mind the very difficult circumstances all garages 
were working under during the COVID-19 pandemic. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr P 
was able to get the van back into use more quickly by taking it to another garage. So, my 
decision remains the same.
I do sympathise with the situation Mr P now finds himself in. Im very sorry to hear about the 
tough time hes going through. I realise this isnt the outcome Mr P is hoping for, but for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman