DRN-2558107
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) refuses to reimburse 
her for legal fees she incurred when she instructed a solicitor to assist her with her 
complaint. RSA cancelled a buildings insurance policy which she jointly held with Mr B in 
error.
What happened
Ms B asked RSA to remove the contents cover from a home insurance policy she and Mr B 
held. In error RSA cancelled the policy. Several months later Ms B made a claim, and the 
error came to light. Ms B says she contacted several people at RSA but they failed to reply 
to her about her claim or to her complaint. Ms B said she had no option but to instruct a 
solicitor to help her. 
In July 2019 RSA replied to Ms Bs complaints which were that it cancelled her policy in error 
and it had caused her distress and upset in its poor service when she contacted it. 
RSA upheld the complaint. As well as providing a backdated replacement policy at a lower 
amount to consider the claim, it paid Ms B £100 compensation and apologised for its service 
failings. 
Ms Bs solicitor replied to RSA in August 2019. In summary it asked RSA to reimburse the 
costs of its legal fees for helping Ms B. 
In September 2019 RSA said it had paid compensation in consideration of its service 
failings. But it wouldnt consider meeting Ms Bs legal costs. It said that Ms B could have 
brought her complaint to this service free of charge if she was unhappy with RSA. 
In February 2020 Ms B contacted us. We havent been unable to look at the complaint RSA 
replied to in July 2019 as Ms B contacted us after the six month time limit. This has been 
addressed under a separate complaint with this service. 
In June 2020 Ms Bs solicitor contacted RSA and asked it to issue a final response to their 
request for it to cover their legal fees. RSA replied to Ms Bs solicitor confirming it wouldnt 
uphold this complaint in June 2020. 
Our investigator explained to Ms B that we could therefore only consider her complaint in 
relation to the legal fees. In doing so, she didnt recommend it be upheld. While she 
understood Ms Bs decision to contact a solicitor, she said this was ultimately her choice and 
so didnt think it fair to ask RSA to reimburse her. She explained that Ms B had the option to 
contact this service if she was unhappy with RSA, rather than instruct a solicitor. 
Ms B didnt agree. She said she spoke to six or seven people at RSA and complained, but 
nobody at RSA replied to her. So she felt she had no choice other than to instruct a solicitor. 
Shes unhappy the investigator made an assumption that Ms B instructed a solicitor before 
speaking to RSA, as this wasnt the case. 
Ms B would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint I can consider is whether RSA should reimburse Ms B for the costs of her 
legal fees. I understand Ms B will be very disappointed, but I dont think it should and Ill 
explain why.
Ms B says the reason why she instructed a solicitor was because RSA wouldnt reply to her 
and wouldnt deal with her claim or complaint. She says the administration error RSA made 
was cancelling her policy when it shouldnt have. But she says this is separate to the distress 
and inconvenience it caused in failing to deal with her  and this is the reason why she 
instructed a solicitor. Ms B says she felt she had no option. 
Our service is available free of charge for customers to contact if they are unhappy with their 
insurer and want to complain. And I can see under the wording for the policy RSA cancelled 
in error, details of our office including our email address and contact number are set out 
under their complaints procedure. So while I understand Ms Bs reasons for instructing a 
solicitor, I cant conclude that legal representation was the only available step for Ms B to 
take. And so I dont think its reasonable to ask RSA to reimburse her for these fees. And 
RSAs reply to Ms Bs complaint about the poor service she received isnt something I can 
consider  as more than six months had passed since RSA had replied, when Ms B 
contacted us.
I realise that Ms B will be very disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not asking RSA to reimburse her legal fees. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman