DRN-3721304
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how Principality Building Society communicated 
with her when she wanted to redeem her buy to let mortgage.
What happened
On 2 December 2020 Miss S used the secure online chat to ask 
Principality how much a 10% overpayment would be and if she could 
reduce her term without incurring extra fees. She was given a telephone 
number to call  Principality say this is because a mortgage adviser 
would need to do this.
Miss S then spoke to a mortgage adviser at Principality she said that her 
medical condition meant it was better for her not to speak on the 
telephone or be given this information in the call. The advisor then 
emailed Miss S this information.
Miss S says that this email went to her spam folder. Shes unhappy that 
this email was addressed to Dear Sirs and that Principality would send 
the payment details by email, which she doesnt think is a secure 
enough method of communication. Miss S thinks Principality should 
have sent this information through its secure portal. 
As Miss S wasnt sure she could trust the information in the email, she 
felt she had to contact Principality to check. She says the mortgage 
adviser didnt respond to her emails or calls and so this delayed her 
being able to make her overpayment by two days. Miss S doesnt think 
Principality has done enough to take her medical conditions into account 
when communicating with her.
When Miss S complained about this, Principality said it couldnt send 
documents through its secure portal and because of the Covid-19 
pandemic many of its staff were working from home and so email had 
become its main way to write to people. It said Miss S had agreed to be 
emailed in the call on 2 December and it didnt think there had been a 
data breach. Principality refunded Miss S with the interest that she 
wouldnt have had to pay if her overpayment had been made two days 
earlier and offered her £75 compensation.
Miss S raised some other points:
Shes unhappy that Principality added a redemption fee to her 
mortgage. She says other lenders have waived this. 
She says the valuation Principality used when she took out the 
mortgage in 2018 included an incorrect build date. She thinks this 
affected the rental value of the property and how much Principality 
would lend to her. 
Principality says the redemption fee was applied correctly, and that the 
incorrect build date in the valuation didnt affect the rental value of the 
property.
When Miss S complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. In summary they thought:
Principality had acted reasonably in how it had communicated with 
Miss S. 
Principalitys offer of £75 compensation for addressing Miss S as 
Dear Sirs and reimbursing the interest for any delay in Miss S 
being able to make her overpayment was a fair way to put right her 
concerns in the circumstances.
It was fair for Principality to apply a redemption fee.
Principality hadnt done anything wrong by relying on the 
surveyors valuation in 2018.
Miss S didnt agree, she said it wasnt fair to put the responsibility on her 
to try different ways of contacting the mortgage adviser when she 
couldnt get through on the phone. And that shes been told by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) that email isnt a secure way to 
be sent information. Miss S says she was struggling financially and so 
Principality should have waived her redemption fee in the circumstances.
Miss S has also let us know that she no longer has access to the secure 
portal, and she believes she was given incorrect information which she 
had to correct about her overpayments. 
Principality says its secure portal is linked to active accounts and that its 
normal for access to be withdrawn once a customer no longer has an 
active account with them. It doesnt think its given Miss S incorrect 
information and says it has followed her communication requests whenever she has asked for them.
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Principalitys offer of £75 compensation and 
refunding interest on Miss S overpayment to recognise a two-day delay 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand as part of this complaint Miss S has raised concerns about 
whether Principality has made reasonable adjustments for her disability 
as its required to do under the Equality Act 2010. Shes also referenced 
data protection and the ICO in relation to her concerns about Principality 
using email to communicate with her. I will consider relevant law and 
good practice when making my findings on whether Principality has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. But, to be clear, it isnt 
our role is to regulate businesses, tell them to change their processes or 
make awards to punish businesses.
How Principality has communicated with Miss S.
Miss S has let us know that shes previously had brain surgery which 
affected her understanding, speech, and sight. She says Principality 
hasnt done enough to adjust how it communicates with her and to make 
it easier for her to understand the information its sent. 
When considering whether Principality has treated Miss S fairly, Ive 
needed to take into account what it knew about her condition at the time, 
as this is important for what adjustments it would have been reasonable 
to have made or offered her. 
Principality says Miss S first made it aware she had a medical condition 
which affected her speech in July 2019. And that it wasnt aware her 
condition affected her sight or that this meant it shouldnt email her until 
after she raised this complaint in 2021.
Principality has also said that Miss S has contacted it in different ways 
including its secure portal, telephone, and email. And that she has asked 
for emails and calls from it in the past. So, it had decided to respond to 
Miss S in the same way she used or asked for each time.
Miss S says that the responsibility shouldnt be on her to set out exactly how Principality should make reasonable adjustments or to try different 
ways to contact it. I agree the responsibility isnt just on Miss S and that 
Principality has to have different options in place where reasonable 
adjustments might be needed. But I think it has done that here - this is 
because overall Principality has communicated with Miss S in a way that 
shed previously been happy with and has been flexible in following her 
preferences when shes shared them. And it can only make adjustments 
when its aware Miss S needs them, but it seems she didnt tell 
Principality it was difficult for her to use email on certain devices until 
after this complaint was raised.
On 2 December 2020, when Miss S asked for redemption information, 
Principality provided her with a phone number. I can see why Miss S 
doesnt think this was appropriate given Principalitys knowledge of her 
speech issues. But Ive also considered the communication history 
between Miss S and Principality, and the wider circumstances. Having 
done so, I dont think Principality has acted unfairly  this is because.
Miss S has continued to use the telephone to contact Principality 
and requested calls. 
During the Covid-19 pandemic, many people were working from 
home and so there were limitations on most business abilities to 
use post / fax.
The information Miss S asked for wasnt something that could be 
given using the secure portal and needed interaction with a 
mortgage adviser. Thats because it wasnt generic information 
and they may have needed to discuss the impact of changing the 
mortgage term.
If Miss S wasnt comfortable speaking on the telephone that day 
she could have asked for a different method of communication in 
the secure chat. 
When Miss S explained on the phone that she wanted the 
information another way, Principality did email it to her instead. So, 
I think Principality has adapted how it communicated with her to 
meet her needs.
Principality says Miss S first made it aware that she needed it to 
post, rather than email, documents in April 2021 and after that it 
sent correspondence this way. 
Miss S says she couldnt get hold of the mortgage adviser when she wanted to check the information it emailed her. It appears the email 
address she was using contained a typo and so the mortgage advisor 
wouldnt have received it. Principality cant tell me why Miss Ss calls 
werent answered, but I dont think this is material to the outcome of this 
complaint. And Principality has accepted that its staff member didnt call 
Miss S when promised. Miss S says this delay meant she made a 
payment two days later than she would have if her calls had been 
answered, and Principality has offered to put her account back in the 
position it would have been in had she made the payment when she first 
wanted to. I think this is a fair way to resolve this point.
Moving on to the issue of whether email was a secure enough method of 
communication. Miss S doesnt think Principality should have emailed 
her about her mortgage redemption, and I understand she wanted this 
information via Principalitys secure chat. I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to make an award in relation to this for the following 
reasons:
It isnt our role to regulate how a business should communicate 
with its customers, and I understand Miss S has already been in 
contact with the ICO. 
Principality says it cant send documents through the secure chat 
function.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the email in question 
was compromised or otherwise not received safely by Miss S  
even if it did initially go to her spam folder.
This means that even if this wasnt a secure enough way to send 
this information to Miss S, there hasnt been an adverse impact on 
her as a result of it doing so. In any case, a mortgage redemption 
statement doesnt contain sensitive information about Miss S other 
than her account number and mortgage balance. 
Principality has offered Miss S £75 compensation to recognise any 
offence or confusion caused by addressing the email Dear Sirs. I 
think this is a fair amount in the circumstances. Whilst Miss S was 
concerned at the time, she was expecting the email and able to 
check its contents were correct.
The redemption fees. 
Miss S was charged a fee on the redemption of her mortgage  this was 
to remove Principalitys charge at the land registry. Miss Ss mortgage offer document says that a discharge fee of £145 is payable on 
redemption and says Please note that the Discharge Fee is payable 
whenever your mortgage is redeemed, not only during the period in 
which early repayment charges apply. As this fee was set out clearly on 
Miss Ss mortgage offer, its a term of her mortgage and that it is 
something Principality can add. Its a reasonable fee that reflects the 
administrative costs of bringing a mortgage to an end and removing the 
charge.
I understand Miss S point that during the Covid-19 pandemic many 
people, including herself, struggled financially and why she thinks it 
would have been fair for Principality to waive this fee. But the Covid-19 
guidance the Financial Conduct Authority issued for how lenders should 
treat their customers didnt place restrictions on whether a lender could 
apply this type of fee. It isnt an uncommon fee in the industry and as I 
dont think Principality was required to waive this fee, I dont think its 
acted unfairly in applying this.
The valuation.
Miss S has complained that the valuation Principality relied on in 2018 
(when she took out the mortgage) included an incorrect build date. Miss 
S is unhappy because she believes this reduced how much Principality 
was willing to lend her.
I agree it was reasonable for Principality to rely on a suitably qualified 
expert when it came to the valuation. And as this was a separate 
company, Principality isnt responsible for any errors in the valuation 
itself. But I have seen that this issue was questioned at the time and the 
surveyor confirmed this date didnt affect the rental value of the property. 
Miss S then chose to take the mortgage terms offered. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Principality to rely on the valuation when making 
its lending decision. And I havent seen any evidence to show the issue 
has had an adverse impact on Miss S.
Other points.
Miss S says that she was provided with inaccurate amounts, but she 
hasnt specified when or what it was she was told that was incorrect. She 
seems to be unhappy that she needed to correct this rather than saying 
there is an outstanding issue with the amount she repaid. Principalitys 
emails show Miss S was correctly told she could repay up to 10% of her 
outstanding balance without paying a fee. I dont have evidence to show 
Principality made an error or what impact this had, so I dont think it would be fair to make an award for this. 
I understand Miss S is unhappy she no longer has access to the secure 
portal, but Principality has explained this is only available to customers 
who have an open account with it. It isnt required to provide the secure 
portal, so I dont think its done anything wrong by treating Miss S in the 
same way as other ex-customers.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained I think Principalitys offer is a fair way to put 
matters right. It should pay Miss S £75 if it hasnt already done so. 
My understanding is that it has already reimbursed the interest referred 
to above (which it calculated at £0.70), but if it hasnt done so it should 
pay her this amount as well.
My final decision
My final decision is that Principality should pay Miss S £75 
compensation and £0.70 interest if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman