DRN-4419293
The complaint
Miss R complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has unfairly declined her claim under 
her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R has private medical insurance cover which is underwritten by AXA. In 2000 Miss R 
was unfortunately diagnosed with breast cancer, following which she had a double 
mastectomy and reconstructive surgery with implants fitted. In 2018 Miss R had the implants 
replaced and then in 2023 she had the implants removed and further reconstructive surgery.
A claim was made to AXA for the costs of the surgery in 2023 but AXA declined the claim. It 
said that the policy doesnt provide cover for treatment which relates to previous 
reconstructive surgery. Miss R was unhappy with this outcome and complained to AXA as 
she felt it was discriminating against cancer sufferers. AXA didnt change its stance on the 
claim and so the complaint was brought to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He found that the 
policy terms didnt provide cover for such surgery if it is connected to a previous 
reconstructive surgery. As this operation in 2023 related to the previous reconstructive 
surgeries she had received, he didnt think AXA had acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
Miss R disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Rs complaint.
As is commonplace with insurance policies, AXAs policy doesnt provide cover for every 
eventuality. But as long as AXA sets out what is and isnt covered by the policy in its terms 
and conditions, it can decline to pay for anything which it has excluded within those terms. 
So, I need to decide if AXA has applied its terms fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Miss R is claiming for reconstructive surgery. The policy contains the following terms:
4.29 Reconstructive surgery
We do cover reconstructive surgery, but only in certain situations.
The policy also specifically refers to cover for cancer and reconstructive surgery following 
breast cancer. It states the following:
The first reconstructive surgery following surgery for breast cancer. 
We will cover: 
 one planned surgery to reconstruct the diseased breast 
 nipple tattooing, up to 2 sessions 
 one planned surgery to reconstruct the nipple. 
Under both of these sections there is the following exclusion:
What is not covered?
We do not cover treatment that is connected to previous reconstructive surgery or 
any cosmetic operation.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Based on the policy terms above, I think it is clear that the policy does provide cover for 
reconstructive surgery, however, there are only certain situations when this will be covered. 
And the policy specifically excludes such surgery which is connected to a previous 
reconstructive surgery.
Miss R received reconstructive surgery in 2001, following breast cancer, and then had her 
implants replaced in 2018. The treatment she received in 2023 was further surgery to 
remove the implants and reconstruct her breasts. This operation in 2023 is connected to her 
previous surgeries and therefore Im satisfied that there isnt cover available under the policy 
for this operation in 2023. So, I dont think AXA was acting unreasonably by declining the 
claim.
Ive noted Miss R has referred to feeling discriminated against as a cancer survivor. She 
says the requirement for further surgery following reconstruction and implants isnt 
uncommon. And this is what she thought unlimited cancer cover would provide. I do 
sympathise with the position Miss R has found herself in and Im in no doubt that the surgery 
she obtained was necessary. But Im persuaded that AXA has applied its policy terms 
reasonably. And the terms are clear about what is and isnt covered. I dont require AXA to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman