DRN-3380749
The complaint
Mr J complains that a significant part of his pension fund with The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) appeared to be exposed to investment risk despite him paying 
for an additional guarantee on the capital value. He would like the cost of the guarantee 
refunding and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr J opened a retirement account plan with Prudential in July 2017. He says he was a low 
risk investor, so the plan was invested into units of Prudentials Prufund cautious fund. Mr J 
also arranged for a Prufund Capital Guarantee (the guarantee) to be added to his plan at 
an additional cost of 0.3% p.a. This provided for a minimum guaranteed fund value after ten 
years of around 56% of the amount originally invested in the fund.
 
In March 2020 investment markets had fallen sharply in response to the uncertainty caused 
by Covid. Mr J says he spoke with his financial adviser and they were alarmed as 
Prudentials online portal showed a guaranteed unit value that was significantly lower than 
expected. Mr J says he then received his annual statement in the post which had a different 
valuation to the portal. Mr J says his financial adviser queried this with Prudential, without 
response. 
Mr J complained to Prudential in October 2020. In January 2021 Prudential upheld his 
complaint in part and apologised for the delay in dealing with it. It said there were some IT 
issues with the way the portal reconciled figures which was being worked on. It said the fund 
values had to be presented in separate sub accounts due to the differing tax treatments 
applicable to them. And there was complexity due to units being moved between sub 
accounts as and when Mr J had taken benefits. 
It said due to this and the need to use the daily unit price (which was the same regardless of 
whether the units were guaranteed or not) it would not be accurate to represent the total of 
the guaranteed minimum fund value units as one figure. But it said the value had never 
been below the minimum that was guaranteed. It paid Mr J £350 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr J wasnt happy with this explanation. He sent Prudential a screen shot from the portal of 
the information this provided. It said the complaints team didnt have access to the portal 
system Mr J could view, but it could now see what he meant. It agreed that the summary 
screen giving a total value for the plan showed a much lower figure for the guaranteed units 
than the cumulative value given on the three more detailed sub account screens also 
available. Prudential said, having referred it to the IT department it was, after several weeks, 
still unable to explain where the lower figure came from, or what it represented. 
It said it had referred the query to the external developer of the system for it to investigate. It 
paid Mr J a further £100 in compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
He said Prudential had been unable to provide screenshots showing the valuations seen by 
Mr J and that it had confirmed it was still working on what appeared to be a limitation in the 
system. He agreed information about the guaranteed fund could be presented in a clearer 
way on the portal. But he felt the main issue of the complaint was whether or not the 
guarantee was in place and that he was satisfied that it was, as was shown on the annual 
benefit statements sent to Mr J. He said that the £450 in compensation that Prudential had 
paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr J didnt agree and made several points: 
He said nearly 18 months after the issue had been raised with Prudential it still hadnt 
been clarified and it wasnt reasonable that its systems werent fit for purpose. 
He said hed decided to opt out of the guarantee to save the cost of this (£350 per 
month) as he couldnt be certain it actually existed, so this cost should be refunded. 
He said part of his concern was that as guaranteed units were sold (to provide 
benefits) this reduced the amount of guarantee and with investment markets falling 
sharply due to Covid concerns he was anxious about the true value of the guarantee. 
He agreed he hadnt suffered a direct investment loss, but said hed suffered a 
financial loss through paying for something which wasnt provided. And Prudential 
had allowed him to take out a complex product that its own IT systems couldnt 
administer.
Our investigator said the value of Mr Js guaranteed fund was above the minimum, but that 
the operation of the plan with units in the investment being moved to sub accounts to 
facilitate income payments may have caused some confusion. 
As Mr J doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr J, so Ill 
explain why. 
I asked Prudential to provide a better copy of Mr Js screen shots of the portal and hes quite 
right, the information is contradictory. Im surprised that these issues took so long to clarify 
and agree this caused Mr J ongoing concern. Prudentials complaints team couldnt view 
what Mr J could and this caused a delay in it looking into his complaint properly. So, I can 
understand why Mr J doubted the benefit of the guarantee after many months of not having 
the issue explained. 
 
However, I think the guarantee that Mr J had taken out was in place. And none of the 
screens showed a total value that was below the guaranteed amount. But the guarantee Mr 
J had bought only ever applied on the tenth anniversary of the investment being made, and I 
think thats important here. At that point if the valuation is below the guaranteed minimum, 
Prudential creates more units to top up the value to the required amount. This future 
minimum value is confirmed by the contract note Prudential provided when Mr J took the 
plan out. 
This doesnt distinguish between guaranteed and non-guaranteed units as Prudentials 
subsequent valuations do, evidently for accounting and tax purposes. I understand Mr Js 
point about the number of guaranteed units reducing as benefits were drawn creating further confusion. The annual benefit statements states, that the guaranteed minimum fund value 
on the tenth anniversary will reduce in the same proportion as the reduction in your 
guarantee units if any are used to provide benefits or pay charges. The actual number of 
units was shown on the sub account pages and at the time the total value of these exceeded 
the minimum that would apply on the tenth anniversary. 
But as the guarantee only applies on the tenth anniversary Mr Js daily fund value - whether 
shown as guaranteed units or not, will fluctuate, and could potentially fall below the future 
guaranteed value at any time. This hadnt happened and at no point was Mr J seeing 
valuations below the guaranteed minimum, but instead contradictory information about units 
described as guaranteed and their value amount. 
The operation of the guarantee is set out in Prudentials literature and terms and conditions 
which Mr J should have been provided with when he took the plan out. If he received 
financial advice about the arrangement, Id expect it to have been covered by this also. 
Im surprised Prudential wasnt able to quickly clarify these points and explain the operation 
of the guarantee on offer to address Mr Js concerns, whilst it tackled the IT issues also 
identified. I think the delay in doing this did cause him inconvenience and unnecessary 
concern. 
But I think the guarantee that Mr J was paying for was in place and he wasnt paying for 
something that wasnt being provided. Consequently, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell 
Prudential to refund the charges made for the guarantee.
There are clearly issues with how the portal represents the details and hopefully Prudential 
will resolve these. But both the sub screens and the annual benefit statements provided by 
post appear to reflect things properly. So, I dont think its reasonable to say Prudential 
couldnt administer the product. 
Mr J has said it is difficult to get across the distress and trauma that the downturns in the 
market due to Covid caused him. And he has attributed this to Prudentials issues with 
producing clear and correct figures for his guarantee. Whilst I can understand his concerns 
Prudential did assure him the guarantee was still in place and the value was not shown to be 
below the guaranteed value.  It was Mr Js decision to cancel it and save the cost going 
forward, knowing the above. And, it appears Mr J had options such as switching his money 
into the cash account, which also couldve allayed his fears about the impact of the market 
on his fund. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Prudentials issues with the guarantee 
wholly responsible for Mr Js worries at the time.
So, taking everything into account, I think this is an administration failure that took too long to 
resolve, causing distress and inconvenience. Its fair that Prudential compensates Mr J for 
this, and I think the £450 it has already paid him is reasonable and in keeping with the level 
of award our service would make in similar circumstances.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman