DRN-3860127
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by Zurich Assurance Ltd to terminate his income 
protection claim.
What happened
Mr G is covered by his employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit in the event he cant work because of illness or injury.
In 2018, Mr G stopped work due to depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 
He submitted a claim to Zurich, which was accepted.
Zurich reviewed the claim in 2019 and arranged for Mr G to attend an independent medical 
examination (IME) with a consultant psychiatrist (Dr R). Dr R thought that Mr G would be 
able to return to work in 12 weeks time. Zurich therefore terminated the claim on that basis.
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Zurichs reliance 
on Dr Rs opinion had been reasonable, and that it had therefore been appropriate for Zurich 
to terminate the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2022. Heres what I said:
The policy defines incapacity as:
The member cannot perform the Material And Substantial Duties of their 
employment and they are not doing any paid work.
As our investigator has explained, in terminating the claim, the onus is on Zurich to show 
that Mr G no longer met the above definition of incapacity.
The IME took place in November 2019. In the report Dr R said he thought that Mr G 
continued to suffer from symptoms of PTSD. However, he thought there had been a 
significant improvement in Mr Gs condition with the psychological treatment and support he 
had received. Dr R thought Mr G continued to suffer from the symptoms of the condition
only in mild intensity. He noted that Mr G had been prescribed a starting dose of 
antidepressant medication (5mg), and recommended this be increased to 15mg to help with 
his symptoms of anxiety and depression.
Dr R said that Mr G could not see himself returning to any form of employment at that time, 
or in the future, until his complaint of bullying at work was resolved through a tribunal. 
However, Dr R said:
In my opinion, with the nature and severity of his current symptoms and the balance of 
probability, he should be able to make a phased return to work in approximately twelve 
weeks (which will allow a further period of time for recovery) time to his insured or a suitable 
occupation, starting with twelve hours a week, gradually increasing his hours by four hours
every two to three weeks to full-time depending on his overall progress.
Zurich terminated the claim in January 2020. Though it paid Mr G a further six months 
benefit to allow him further time to reintegrate into the workplace.
It seems to me that Zurich was too hasty to terminate the claim when it did. Its clear Dr R 
thought that Mr G needed a further period of recovery before he could return to work, and 
estimated (on the balance of probability) that he would be able to work after 12 weeks.
That was presumably based on Dr Rs view that Mr Gs symptoms would continue to 
improve. However, given that 12 weeks is a significant amount of time, I would have 
expected Zurich to have made enquiries with Mr Gs GP to ensure there hadnt been 
significant changes to his health before actually terminating the claim.
Mr Gs GP has provided a letter dated 10 February 2020. The GP described how Mr Gs 
symptoms had declined over the past eight years. She also said that:
Over the last two months in particular he has been self-neglecting, socially isolating 
himself and suffering from great anxiety. His mood has also deteriorated significantly 
and he is having some suicidal thoughts.
The GP went onto say that Mr G had become more forgetful, and his memory and 
concentration had been affected. She said he struggled with day-to-day activities, and she 
did not think he was physically or mentally fit to work.
I think theres sufficient evidence here to support that Mr Gs symptoms worsened between 
the date of the IME and the date Dr R thought he should be able to return to work. That 
being the case, I dont think it was reasonable for Zurich to rely on Dr Rs view from 
November 2019 that Mr G could return to work at the end of January 2020.
Consequently, Im not persuaded Zurich has shown that Mr G no longer met the definition of 
incapacity when it terminated the claim in January 2020.
Having said that, it may be that little or no redress is due to Mr G. I say that because I 
understand his employment ended at some point in 2020 (I dont know the exact date, as 
there has been a reference to both June and September 2020), and Zurich paid benefit up to 
30 June 2020.
The policy terms explain that membership will end when:
The Member is no longer employed by you (unless we continue to pay the benefit 
 see 6.5).
Section 6.5 of the policy says:
A Member who is Incapacitated and leaves service after the end of the Deferred 
Period will not be a Member and benefits will not continue to be paid to them unless 
you tell us in advance and we consider the circumstances to be satisfactory
Mr G says he lost his job because of Zurichs decision to terminate his claim.
In cases such as this, if were satisfied theres sufficient evidence to support that a claimant 
lost their job because of an insurers decision to decline/terminate an income protection 
claim, we might ask the insurer to pay the claim beyond the date the employment ended.Our investigator asked Mr G for evidence that hed lost his job as a direct result of Zurichs 
claims decision, but he wasnt able to provide this.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Gs employment ended around the same time that his claim payment 
was stopped by Zurich, I note that his employment wasnt terminated because of ill-health. 
Instead, he reached a settlement agreement with his employer, and I would assume this was 
due to the ongoing employment dispute between the parties.
Im therefore not persuaded that Mr G lost his job solely because of Zurichs decision to 
terminate his claim, and so I dont intend to require Zurich to pay Mr G benefit past the date 
his employment ended.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Zurich responded with the following main points:
It thinks I have taken Mr Gs GP evidence at face value. In Zurichs opinion the GP 
report is a record of Mr Gs self-reported symptoms without objective evidence to 
substantiate the symptoms he claimed to be experiencing.
It says GPs are advocates for their patients, and it is therefore surprised by the 
weight placed on the GP evidence.
The IME took 90 minutes and was a face-to-face assessment with a consultant 
psychiatrist. Zurich says Dr R was best placed to construct a view on Mr Gs 
condition.
If Mr Gs employment ended on 30 June 2020, then it agrees he would not have 
suffered a financial loss and no benefit would be paid.
Mr G responded with the following:
The scheme terms say that Zurich can offer rehabilitation support to help someone 
recover from an illness, and support them and their employer with return to work 
advice. Mr G says this wasnt offered to him.
He provided correspondence between him and his former employer relating to his 
reasons for leaving his employment, as well as medical evidence.
He says his former employer would have kept him on and he would still be an 
employee, if it were not for Zurichs decision to terminate his claim. He says that 
because of Zurichs decision to do so, his former employer said they would end his 
employment.
He thinks the Zurich policy should have continued until 30 September 2020, based 
on information he had been given by his former employer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the same view expressed in my provisional decision, and Ill 
explain why.
Zurich says that Ive taken Mr Gs GP evidence at face value, and that it believes this to be a 
record of Mr Gs self-reported symptoms rather than objective evidence. Mr Gs claim was 
for depression and PTSD, and therefore its not clear what objective evidence Zurich would 
expect to see to support that Mr Gs symptoms were as the GP described. In any event, I have no reason to doubt what the GP has said, and so I remain satisfied that the GP 
evidence from February 2020 supports that Mr Gs symptoms didnt continue to improve 
over the three-month period, as Dr R had thought may happen.
To be clear, I dont dispute that greater weight would usually be given to the opinion of a 
consultant psychiatrist over that of a GP. However, the circumstances are slightly unusual 
here, as Dr R made an estimation, on the balance of probabilities, about Mr Gs health in 12 
weeks time. A lot can happen in 12 weeks. Therefore, I would have expected Zurich to have 
checked with Mr Gs GP that his symptoms hadnt become worse over that period before 
terminating the claim. If Zurich had done this, it could have then passed the information from 
the GP to Dr R for his opinion. Instead, Zurich terminated the claim based on Dr Rs 
assumption that Mr G would improve over the following 12 weeks without checking that this 
was actually the case. I therefore remain of the view that Zurich should not have terminated 
the claim when it did. 
Mr G says that Zurich didnt offer him rehabilitation or coaching to address his pain or 
bullying at work. My understanding is that the rehabilitation service provided by Zurich isnt 
always offered, and this would depend on the illness and whether the claimant was in a 
position to return to work. I dont find that Zurich was obliged to offer this. Also, I would not 
expect an insurer to provide support to someone regarding a grievance with their employer, 
as this would be an employment matter.
Ive read the minutes that Mr G has provided of a meeting that took place between him and 
his previous employer. I see that they discussed alternative roles, as well as the possibility of 
him being dismissed under the ill health capability procedure. However, other emails Mr G 
has provided show that the site was closing down and he was due to be made redundant 
when that happened. Therefore, Mr G wasnt dismissed under the ill health capability 
procedure, and instead it seems his employer offered him an early redundancy package 
because his claim with Zurich had ended, which Mr G accepted. 
I therefore remain of the opinion that Mr G hasnt shown that his former employer ended his 
employment solely because of Zurichs decision to terminate his claim. It follows that I wont 
be requiring Zurich to make any payment beyond the date that Mr Gs employment ended.
Mr G has now clarified that his last day of employment was 30 June 2020. As Zurich paid 
benefit up to this date, I dont require it to make any further payment. 
Whilst Mr G thinks the Zurich cover should have continued until 30 September 2020, the 
scheme terms make it clear that the cover ends when employment ends. If Mr Gs former 
employer led him to believe otherwise, he should raise his concerns directly with them. 
I note that Mr G has also raised concerns about the redundancy settlement he received from 
his former employer. He should raise his concerns about this directly with that company, as 
Zurich had no control over his redundancy settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. However, as Zurich has already paid benefit 
to the end of Mr Gs employment, it doesnt need to do anything further to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman