DRN-3578045
The complaint
Miss N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd ought to have done more to protect her from falling 
victim to an alleged investment scam.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties, so Ill only be providing a 
summary here. Miss Ns complaint concerns five transactions totalling £1,865 that she made 
from her account with Monzo Bank to her own account with C  a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. These funds were then utilised to purchase cryptocurrency  which Miss N sent 
onto the wallet details shed been provided believing she was crediting her trading account. 
Miss N says she realised shed likely fallen victim to a scam when she kept being asked to 
invest more money and couldnt withdraw her funds from the trading platform. She reported 
this to Monzo Bank and complained it hadnt done enough to protect her. 
Monzo Bank said it couldnt agree to refunding the disputed transactions as it had adhered 
to its internal processes. It also pointed out that the transactions were authorised and made 
to Miss Ns own account with C. It did, however, acknowledge that it couldve provided a 
better service whilst dealing with Miss Ns claim. By way of apology, it credited her account 
with £100.  
Miss N referred her complaint to our service. Our Investigator reached the conclusion that 
Monzo Bank had acted fairly and didnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Miss N wasnt satisfied with the outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to reconsider her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss N but I cant fairly and reasonably ask 
Monzo Bank to refund the disputed transactions. My reasons are as follows: 
- There is no dispute that Miss N authorised the transactions in question. Whilst she 
didnt intend to get scammed, she is initially presumed liable for the loss. 
- However banks also have a duty to protect their customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams so far as is reasonably possible. Amongst other things, this might involve 
a bank looking to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly those which are 
unusual or out of character  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
- Naturally, with the benefit of hindsight its easy to say that Monzo Bank ought to have 
identified these payments as being fraudulent. But in practice this isnt always 
possible and can be quite challenging as there are many millions of payments made 
each day and it would not be realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and 
check each one. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
- With the above in mind, in the context of Miss Ns normal spending and account 
usage, Im satisfied here, that it wouldnt be fair to say that the amounts or type of 
payment (including the merchant the payments were made to) should have appeared 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious to Monzo Bank such that it ought to have 
intervened and contacted Miss N about the transactions. I know Miss N disagrees, so 
Id like to explain this further. 
- The largest of the five payments to C was a faster payment for £1,000. Having 
looked through Miss Ns bank statements for the twelve months leading up to the 
scam, I can see that she has made payments for similar, and even larger sums. I 
appreciate these are to other payees  which Miss N says she makes regular 
payments to. But C is also not a new payee. Miss N has made payments to C before 
 in April 2020, August 2020 and January 2021. C is also a legitimate merchant so 
there arent any red flags that Id have expected Monzo Bank to have picked up on. I 
appreciate Miss N was in a difficult place financially and that for her these sums were 
significant. But Monzo Bank only became aware of her circumstances and financial 
difficulties in March 2021 (after the payments had debited her account). So taking all 
this into consideration I dont think I can say that the payments would have appeared 
as being so remarkable to Monzo Bank that it ought to have reasonably caused it any 
concern that Miss N may have been at risk of financial harm. And as there wasnt any 
interaction between Miss N and Monzo Bank at the time the payments were made, it 
also didnt otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity to unearth the scam before 
the payments were made. 
- For completeness Ive also considered whether there was anything more 
Monzo Bank couldve done to assist Miss N with trying to recover her losses. For the 
two faster payments, as these were made to Miss Ns own account with C (which she 
was in control of) I wouldnt have expected Monzo Bank to have done more in 
assisting her in the recovery of those funds. And for the three card payments I dont 
think Monzo Bank have acted unfairly or unreasonably by reaching the conclusion 
that Miss Ns claims didnt have a reasonable prospect of success under 
MasterCards chargeback scheme. The scheme offers limited protection for 
investment related transactions. But more relevant to Miss Ns circumstances, here C 
had in fact fulfilled the service it was expected to provide. 
- And finally, I think the £100 already paid by Monzo Bank is a fair way to compensate 
for the communication failures and delays caused whilst handling Miss Ns claim. So, 
I wont be asking it to do any more.
Im truly sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss N has faced and the impact the scam has 
had on her. I know my outcome will come as a disappointment. But it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable of me to ask Monzo Bank to refund losses which I feel were suffered by Miss N 
because of the scammers actions  not Monzo Banks.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman