DRN-1963929
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this complaint, so I will refer to it as the
seller in this decision.
What happened
Mrs C took out a store card with AXA in 1999. At the same time she bought a PPI policy
which would have helped cover the repayments on her card if she couldn't work.
Mrs C says she didn't know the PPI had been added. It was added without her knowledge or
consent.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs C's complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed, so the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I disagreed with the adjudicator and issued a provisional decision in May 2020 not upholding 
Mrs Cs complaint. I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider. Neither party responded, so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when considering this case. Having done so, Im not upholding
this complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Cs store card application form. Theres a separate section
for PPI which offers a clear choice about whether to take it or not. Mrs C has signed
separately in the box to say she wanted it. Other boxes offering other products have been
left blank. Mrs C has signed this form.
On balance, I think its likely Mrs C bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it,
although I can understand why she wouldn't remember this over 20 years later.
AXA didnt provide Mrs C with a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt have to
take steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did have to make sure she had enough
information about it to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this. Theres very little
information about the PPI on the application form. But this doesnt mean I should
automatically uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I have to think about how she might have acted if
she did have all the information.
When the adjudicator first reviewed this complaint, they noted that Mrs C had an existing
medical condition when she bought the policy. This wouldnt have been covered under the
terms of the policy, because it was a chronic condition which Mrs C experienced in the 12
months before taking the policy. The adjudicator thought if Mrs C had understood this that
she wouldnt have bought the policy.
I dont agree. I dont think even if Mrs C had fully understood her condition wouldnt be
covered under the policy that it would have prevented her from buying the policy. I dont
think Mrs C wouldve thought it was the most likely reason for being off work for at least a
month. Whilst Mrs Cs condition was chronic and managed through treatment of symptoms
rather than curable, I dont think it was likely to have led to significant time off work.
So, I dont think Mrs C wouldve decided not to buy the policy if shed understood her 
existing condition wasnt covered.
AXA didn't make other information about the policy clear to Mrs C either. But looking at Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time I dont think this wouldve made her act differently, either. Mrs 
C was eligible for the policy and she wasn't affected by any of the terms which mightve 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim (other than in the way Ive already 
described).
Mrs C wasn't entitled to any contractual sick pay and possibly entitled to some statutory sick 
and redundancy pay, but the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
considerably longer - until Mrs C returned to work or the existing balance at the point of 
claim was paid off. Mrs C didn't have any other means to meet her repayments. So, if Mrs C 
had been off work I think the policy provided a useful benefit.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around the
same time. It was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. Mrs
C says she later got into difficulties with her repayments on the card and this was caused, in
part, by the addition of the PPI premium. I haven't seen any evidence of this, but as Mrs C
was only charged £10.73 over the course of the policy I don't think the PPI would have
caused her financial difficulties.
So, although Mrs C may not have got all the information she needed, I dont think she lost 
out as result.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman