DRN-3791811
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited wont take responsibility for 
the fitting of a telematics box installed for her motor insurance policy. She wants it to 
reimburse her costs caused because of this. 
What happened
Aioi Nissay Dowas technician fitted a telematics box on top of the battery in Miss Bs car. 
Eight months later, the car lost power and Miss B had to pay £161 for the car to be repaired. 
The roadside recovery agent said in his report that one of the battery terminals had come 
loose and he suspected it was left loose when the telematics box was installed. Aioi Nissay 
Dowa said this was unlikely to have caused the problem as the fitting had been done eight 
months earlier. It thought the problem was most likely due to vibration or wear and tear. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought the 
arguments from both sides were equally compelling. So she thought a fair resolution would 
be for the costs to be shared and for Aioi Nissay Dowa to reimburse Miss B for half her 
costs. 
Miss B agreed. But Aioi Nissay Dowa replied that the recovery agents report wasnt a 
confirmation of the cause of the issue. It said the reports diagnosis should have been 
confirmed by a qualified technician. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that having her engine cut out completely must have been a very 
frightening experience for Miss B. Miss B said her car was repaired by the roadside recovery 
agent within seconds. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
The roadside recovery agents report said: 
confirm fault cutout complete loss of electrical power when leaving super market car park
found negative battery terminal has come loose, reconnected and tested ok
suspect was left loose from when black box was installed on top of battery
The report also states that this is a suspected diagnosis that needs to be confirmed by a 
repairing garage. But, in this case, I dont think that would be reasonable as the fault was 
easily repaired and the cause was then a matter of likelihood. 
The recovery agent was aware of the time since the box had been fitted. He didnt note any 
faults with the terminal. And I think that if he thought the issue was due to wear and tear, he 
would have noted this. He made the simple repair and reassured Miss B that the car was 
now safe to drive. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa said the problem couldn't have been due to an issue with the installation 
as, if this had been the case, the issues should have appeared a lot sooner. It noted that it 
was eight months since the installation.
But Miss B thought that there was no other reason the battery could have gone flat. She 
confirmed the car was well maintained, there were no issues reported at previous MOT's 
and the car was only registered in 2017.
I agree with the Investigator that both arguments are equally plausible. However, Im not 
satisfied that Aioi Nissay Dowa can dismiss the recovery agents report and so justify its 
decision to not pay for the repairs. But I also agree that the report doesnt definitively say 
that the fault was solely due to the installation of the box. 
So Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable resolution is for the parties to share the costs of 
the roadside recovery call-out, on production of evidence for this. 
Putting things right
I require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited to reimburse Miss B for half of the £161 
roadside recovery call-out cost, on production of evidence for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman