DRN-3774654
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, charged him too much in 
interest on his overdraft during the pandemic months. Mr C has explained that he was in 
financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Halifax. It was an Ultimate Reward Current account and in
January 2020 he had an overdraft facility of £750. This was not used from then until
September 2020 as Mr C was in credit for that period.
Mr Cs complaint sits against the backdrop of the national lockdown due to the Covid 19
pandemic and the measures the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced for all
regulated firms offering bank accounts and overdrafts to action for their customers. I will
address all this in the main part of my decision.
Mr C complained to Halifax in March 2022 about the charges he was receiving for the
overdraft and although he had been given some charge free periods (either from application
of the FCA guidance for concessions for the first £500 overdraft amount, or from having
received refunds from Halifax for some of those charges) still Mr C felt that more should
have been done and more overdraft charges should be refunded to him.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and came to a view on several of Mr Cs
points:
The banks decision to change its overdraft charging structure was a commercial 
decision and one it was entitled to do. So, she could not look at that part
Our adjudicator looked at whether Halifax had treated Mr C fairly and reasonably 
when it applied the charges to the account
Reviewing his bank account details and transactions our adjudicator did not think that 
it showed signs of financial difficulty
Our adjudicator referred to the recorded call between Mr C and Halifax on
9 September 2020 and heard that Mr C had sought advice from Halifax on that day
Mr C had been given the charge free period for the first £500 of his overdraft
And Halifax had refunded him £98.48 of charges for the period 10 December 2021 to
22 March 2022
Halifax froze his interest on the overdraft until 26 April 2022
For distress and inconvenience Halifax had offered Mr C £20 which related to the
wait he had experienced on a call and the difficulty he had getting through to
Halifax.
Our adjudicators view was that these were fair and reasonable and she did not
uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Cs response to our adjudicators view was to refer to the Covid 19 pandemic and
the lockdowns. His view was that the institutions knew of the forthcoming pandemic
and fraudulently decided to make money out of the general public. Mr C considered
that an entirely unacceptable idea.
I make it clear at this stage that I do not intend to investigate the theories surrounding
any conspiracies Mr C holds in relation to the pandemic or the lockdown measures.
These I consider to be personal views of Mr Cs and not ones the Financial
Ombudsman Service would be expected to investigate. I plan to stick to the financial
facts and the FCA regulations.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on
10 October 2022 in which I gave reasons why I planned to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I thought Mr C ought to have all his overdraft fees and charges refunded to him from the
9 September 2020 telephone call. And I considered that £20 for the poor customer service
was too low and I said I planned to award Mr C £50.
Both Mr C and Halifax responded and Halifax had done what I asked which was to correct
any factual information I had pieced together from the information I had at the time of doing
the first provisional decision. It sent some corrected information to me and I was grateful for
that.
How did each party respond to my first provisional decision?
Halifax said that it had placed a freeze on Mr Cs account charges during the time for the 
complaint to be resolved.
Mr C was not content and said that he wanted a lot more compensation including refunds
from March 2020 and 8% compound daily interest. And Mr C wanted compensation for
Halifax staff not considering his mental health issues and he claimed loss of earnings time
effort and life issues. I want a lot more money and compensation.
Halifax has sent us more documents and has corrected the table I had set out in my first
provisional decision  using the information I had at the time  and so the corrected
schedule showing Mr Cs overdraft limit history is set out here. These are the facts I am 
proceeding on. 
Date Overdraft limit
26 April 2018 Increased to £500
11 November 2019 Increased to £750
22 April 2020 Increased to £1,500
Between 22 and 28 February 2021 Reduced to £630
28 February 2021 Declined to £1,200
17 March 2021 Increased to £1,000
I was grateful for the new information from Halifax however the information I used when 
compiling my first provisional decision was a little confusing as part of the information I had 
received from Halifax originally had been sent a table showing that on 24 February 2021 the 
overdraft limit was pending at £630. 
This did not completely fit with the more recent information sent to me. In Halifaxs original 
letter to us in May 2022  it said that Mr Cs overdraft limit had been decreased to £1,000 in 
February 2021 whereas one set of records shows me that the overdraft limit was pending at 
£630 in February 2021 and then increased to £1,000 in March 2021.
I do concede that I mistakenly thought that Mr Cs overdraft limit was increased to £1,500 inApril 2022 and that does make a difference to the outcome. It appears that it was maintained
at the £1,000 overdraft limit from March 2021. 
So, I decided to issue a second provisional decision so that both parties were clear on the
facts and my provisional findings. That was sent to both parties on 29 November 2022.
My first provisional decision is not set out here in detail as the mixing up of the facts I used
last time and the amended facts will become confusing. And so, I reviewed the whole
complaint.
This second provisional decision corrects an element which I think Halifax had got wrong. It
said to us recently that Mr Cs account was in credit until 14 September 2022 and so Mr C
did not use his overdraft until that date. But reviewing the bank statements for the account to
which this overdraft complaint relates, I have seen that it was clearly in credit until
September 2020 not September 2022 and so I think that the recent Halifax letter was a
typing error.
And the most recent calculations for the potential refund in accordance with the first
provisional decision had been calculated from the wrong start date  September 2021,
whereas my first provisional decision was a refund from 9 September 2020.
Having clarified those points, for ease of reading I set out here my Second Provisional 
Decision dated 29 November 2022 and in smaller type to differentiate it.
 My Second Provisional decision dated 29 November 2022 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may assist in answering many of Mr Cs concerns, by giving some background information.
These are much the same points I made in my first provisional decision and which I repeat
here.
Following FCA consultations long before the Coronavirus pandemic, the regulated firms
such as Lloyds were going to be altering the charging structure for overdrafts anyway. It was
to be effective from April 2020 and hence the reason Halifax, and all other banks and
building societies offering overdraft facilities, wrote to customers in or around January 2020
to prepare their customers for the changes. I can see that Halifax did write to Mr C on that
subject. It was sent to his on-line banking email in-box, and it seems from the records
Halifax sent to me that Mr C did not read it. But either way I am satisfied that the
communication was sent to him. That explained the new overdraft charging structure going
forward.
The banks decision to change its overdraft charging structure was a commercial decision
and one it was entitled to do and it was required to comply with the FCA rules. So, I agree
with our adjudicator on this part  thats not an element we can investigate.
Following the governments intervention in relation to the national lockdown due to the
coronavirus pandemic in March 2020, the FCA issued temporary Guidance relating to a
whole raft of consumer credit products, overdrafts being one of them. These were updated
as the months and years went by to keep up to date with the changes surrounding the Covid
pandemic. They were never meant to be permanent changes. There were end dates on the
availability of some of the concessions available to consumers.
Temporary guidance for regulated firms such as Halifax in relation to the coronavirus
pandemic and overdrafts was published in April 2020. And this included offering customers
the £500 interest free overdraft for a three month period which could be extended for a
further three months. So as Mr C already had an overdraft in place  although he was notusing it at the beginning of 2020 - by the time he called Halifax in September 2020 then
I think that should have been offered sooner than it was offered to him which Halifax records
show was not until late November 2020.
Halifaxs recent email to me states that Mr C started to use his overdraft in September 2022
but, as I have explained earlier in this decision, I think thats an error in the typing as it was
September 2020 that Mr Cs account balance started to move into his overdraft facility.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of those out in this decision.
The £500 FCA concessionary overdraft as part of the Covid measures
Halifax has confirmed this:
The Bank supported the measures the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
introduced. Indeed, he received the initial £500 overdraft interest free concession
from April to July 2020. We know though during this period he did not use his
overdraft facility.
And Halifax has challenged my earlier provisional finding that the £500 interest free overdraft
facility ought to have been applied when Mr C had telephoned for help on 9 September 2020. In 
response to that Halifax has said 
The Bank would feel applying the £500 overdraft free concession before it was being used or 
clear it would be, was not the best option. This would mean the inefficient use of part of the 
three months available to a customer.
But considering Halifax had already applied a £500 FCA concessionary overdraft facility
from April to July 2020 when it must have known that Mr C was in credit at that time and Mr C had not 
requested it, I find Halifaxs argument in the previous paragraph non- persuasive.
I have listened to that recorded call on 9 September 2020 and I maintain that Mr C was
asking for help and at the very least the £500 overdraft facility  freely applied in April 2020
when he did not need it  could have been applied at that time. I maintain that provisional
finding that the £500 overdraft interest free concession ought to have been applied from
9 September 2020. I dont think that the Halifax representative needed much more
information to be able to justify that action. Instead, the Halifax representative gave him the
money management team telephone number and left Mr C to arrange it. That £500 interest
free time would have been a good start for Mr C.
Savings account usage
Halifax has made many submissions in relation to income and money coming into the bank
account about which this complaint relates. And one element is the fact that Mr C had
savings accounts. Halifax has sent to me the statements for those. The implication appears
to be that Mr C had money elsewhere (in other accounts as savings) and he could have
used it to assist his own overdraft position.
One account had very little in it and had reduced to a relatively small amount and on the
recorded call in September 2020 Mr C had told Halifax he had been using his savings but
now was down to very little.
The other is entitled kids saver and when I cross-refer this account number to other records
I have seen from Halifax it seems that the Role/Owner for that account is shown as
Trustee/Yes which suggests that the money has been allocated into that account with Mr C
as Trustee for his children to keep those savings safe. So, I dont consider that money a
store of cash he could use to assist himself and his own account debt. That Mr C could use
other money in other accounts is not a persuasive argument by Halifax in my view. I reject
the submissions where Halifax has said Mr C could have repaid or reduced the overdraftusage in a reasonable period, which could have been supported by reduction in
discretionary and not transferring funds to savings.
Income into the account
I have been sent copies of Mr Cs bank statements for the whole of 2020 and 2021 and up to
22 April 2022. Reviewing those bank statements, I have seen that Mr Cs company of which
he was director (for the key worker services he said he provided) used to pay income into
the account and there were long periods when that income was missing.
Plus, I can see that income from a letting company (which Mr C mentions on that
September 2020 telephone call) was for £1,200 each month and credited his account on the
first day of each month. Then his mortgage on the property of just under £700, was debited
on the same day. So, when that key worker income ceased then the account went deeper
into overdraft. Mr Cs company was dissolved on 19 October 2021.
And its clear that by 1 June 2021, his overdraft was always bumping on the underside of his
limit (at that time £1,000), it was back in credit when the £1,200 rental income was paid in
and then back into debit when his mortgage when out the same day. This was happening in 
April 2021 but by 1 June 2021 I think it was likely Mr C was heading for a point when hed be
exceeding his overdraft.
Further, just cross-referring the details I have from Halifaxs records and notes of the
account, Mr Cs attempts to keep his credit lines open are clear. He had a loan with Halifax,
he activated a Halifax credit card in January 2021, he started to receive persistent debt
letters in July 2021 demonstrating that Halifax knew he needed assistance. Mr C did obtain a
fees and charges refund in December 2021. But still, it did not get better.
On 22 March 2022, using the correct protocols to record such information, Halifax recorded
that Mr C had Support Needs which were required to be applied to him.
And on 4 April 2022 and 11 April 2022 the £92.88 direct debit to pay for the Halifax loan he
had with them was returned. So, I cant think of a clearer indication that Mr C was in financial
difficulties, when Halifaxs own loan repayments were returned to the account holder.
So, my provisional decision is that I plan to uphold Mr Cs complaint in that I think he ought
to have all his overdraft fees and charges refunded to him from the 9 September 2020
telephone call until the end April 2022 (excepting any refunds already paid to Mr C).
And now that the bank has information on Mr Cs Support Needs, then Id expect additional
support to be afforded to him going forward.
Mr C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Halifax didnt
treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it
should put things right.
The £20 offer for customer service
Halifax has admitted that this was an issue and so I do not need to have all the details
surrounding that occasion when Mr C could not get through and had to wait on the telephone
for a long time.
I accept that these would have been busy times for Halifax with many customers needing its
assistance. But I think that £20 is too low a figure. Recently Halifax has said that it thinks its
a reasonable figure. I disagree and I plan to award £50.
Mr Cs demand for more compensation
I have approached this complaint on the basis that Mr C states his overdraft charges wereunfair and he ought to have been assisted earlier. On the whole I have agreed with him and
I consider a refund is due. I set this out in my first provisional decision.
Mr C has provided no basis to demand more and I see no reason to award additional
compensation.
And on the 8% interest point raised by Mr C  it is not compound interest  just simple
interest  and that would only be applied once Mr Cs account has been re-worked (meaning
recalculated) and the outstanding debt has been extinguished by the reworked figures. Then
the surplus from whichsoever that date works out to be will attract 8%. Mr C cant expect to
claim 8% on figures which were negative overdraft balance figures and money that he owed
Halifax and had not yet paid over to it.
And as for the points raised about matters relating to his mental health and issues following from the 
time, then the facts are Mr C contacted Halifax on 22 March 2022, using the correct
protocols to record such information and it recorded that Mr C had Support Needs which
were required to be applied to him. Halifax has said that it has not had a chance to look at
matters since April 2022  see below:
The events after March 2022 have though not been investigated by the Bank and it
will support [Mr C] if he contacts it. This includes the ongoing waiving of the daily
overdraft fees as already detailed. Once he has discussed his financial situation with
us we can tailor the support moving forward.
The Bank notes you have mentioned events of April 2022 in the findings received,
but these are after our final response. As such these have not been considered by
the Bank. Mr C has not contacted the Bank about this period and we would advise
him to speak to us about any assistance we can provide. Whilst reviewing this view
the Bank have again frozen the daily overdraft interest and will continue to do this at
least until this matter is closed. We would consider providing this for a period after
the closure of this complaint, as long as the customer contacts us to discuss his
financial status.
And so, for matters from 1 April 2022 in relation to Mr Cs mental health and how he alleges
Halifax has treated him, it seems that the best way forward is for Mr C to contact the bank
again. It is correct that the FRL from Halifax was for events up to end of March 2022.
I have included the financial issues for the period to end of April 2022 as I have been sent
bank statements for April 2022 and I have seen that refunds of fees and charges have
already been made.
Fair compensation  what I am planning to ask Halifax to do to put things right for
Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from 9 September 2020 are removed up to end March 2022. And this needs to take account 
of the refunds and interest free periods Mr C has already had from Halifax
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been made 
Halifax should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr C is encouraged to get 
in contact with and cooperate with Halifax to reach a suitable agreement.
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs credit file, Halifax should 
reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action 
on the overdraft on 9 September 2020.Halifax can reduce Mr Cs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr C over the limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr C 
along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they 
were) until the date of settlement.
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should 
remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. Halifax can also reduce Mr Cs 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
AND
Halifax needs to pay to Mr C £50 for the inconvenience and the lack of customer service as 
referred to in the main body of the provisional decision.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How did each party respond to the second provisional decision?
Halifax corrected or disagreed with some of the points in my second provisional decision. As 
two provisional decisions had already been issued, I do not set them out here but they have 
been noted. 
And the reason I do not go into further detail is that Halifax has sought to resolve the 
complaint by offering to do as I had set out in my second provisional decision and Mr C has 
accepted it in principle save for one detail which I have finalised here. 
And so at this stage I consider that that getting to the resolution is whats needed. The terms 
Halifax has set out to resolve the complaint and which dovetail with my second provisional 
decision planned outcome are here:
Halifax invites Mr C to contact the bank to discuss his present situation so that it can 
support him.
Halifax has said that it will: 
Rework Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees, and charges
applied to it from 9 September 2020 up to when they were suppressed on 18 October 2022, 
considering those already refunded, are removed from his account. This is more than 
requested in the revised provisional decision and will mean a refund of £400.14 of such 
overdraft interest.
This refund would mean, as of 7 December 2022 (the date Halifax have put forward 
these resolution terms) an outstanding balance would remain as Mr Cs account was 
£780.81 overdrawn. The Bank will though on payment of the refund:
o Reduce Mr Cs overdraft limit from £1,000.00 to £600.00 immediately.o Provide the overdraft fee free for a further 30 days from the date of 
settlement, at which point daily overdraft interest will be payable for any 
overdraft usage.
Halifax was unaware of any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
relating to this account and so no corrective action needed on that
Pay Mr C £50 for the inconvenience caused in this matter.
Mr C received these resolution terms and responded to say that he agreed to this in principle 
save that he wanted his overdraft to remain at £1,000. Halifax has replied to say no. And on 
this last point I agree with Halifax that it should be free to assess what it considers the 
correct overdraft limit for Mr C following the complaint and looking to the future. I have since 
seen that Mr C has accepted this overdraft reduction. So it seems both sides are in 
agreement. 
In the circumstances I endorse the resolution terms as set out above as they are in line with 
a fair and reasonable outcome set out in my second provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Halifax has said that it will: 
Rework Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees, and charges 
applied to it from 9 September 2020 up to when they were suppressed on 
18 October 2022, considering those already refunded, are removed from his account. 
It may be that some fresh calculations need to be carried out depending on when and 
if Mr C accepts this final determination. 
This refund would mean, as of 7 December 2022 (the date Halifax have put forward 
these resolution terms) an outstanding balance would remain as Mr Cs account was 
£780.81 overdrawn. This figure might alter a little if any recalculations are needed.
The Bank, on payment of the refund, will:
o Reduce Mr Cs overdraft limit from £1,000.00 to £600.00 immediately.
o Provide the overdraft fee free for a further 30 days from the date of 
settlement, at which point daily overdraft interest will be payable for any 
overdraft usage.
Halifax was unaware of any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
relating to this account and so no corrective action needed on that is needed but if it 
transpires there was some adverse payment information about this account on Mr 
Cs credit file, Halifax is to amend it. 
Pay Mr C £50 for the inconvenience caused in this matter.
It seems that the usual additional about HM Revenue & Customs requiring Halifax to take off 
tax from any interest may not be relevant. But if it is -  Halifax must give Mr C a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and I endorse the resolution terms set out above. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax needs to do as it has offered and as 
set out in the putting things right part of the decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman