DRN-2831471
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Society of Lloyds (SOC) have dealt with his claim under his
landlords property insurance following an escape of water.  
What happened
Mr C reported an escape of water to SOC on 29 June 2020. Water had leaked from the first
floor bathroom to the kitchen below. A claim form was completed saying that emergency
repairs were required and that there were tenants living in the property. The following day Mr
C received a letter from the SOCs loss adjusters asking him to explain the cause of
damage, provide two estimates for the work and photographs of the damage. Mr C was
abroad at the time and asked if the loss adjuster could provide a list of recommended
builders, but they declined.
Mr C made enquiries to try to find a suitable plumber but due to Covid restrictions only two
agreed to attend. Neither provided a proper quote despite being asked. Mr C was then
recommended a large national firm of plumbers who come out to inspect the property but
couldnt provide a quote as they werent sure the full extent of the work that would be
required. They advised Mr C that the kitchen ceiling was at risk of collapse and as there
were tenants living in the property this work should be done straight away.
Mr C agreed and the plumbers started work on 15 July. Mr C emailed the loss adjuster either
on the same day or the day after and provided the first invoice. He emailed again on 17 July
and provided the second invoice, and on seven subsequent occasions to provide an update
on progress, and to provide photographs and invoices. Mr C says that he was required to
pay the invoices as the work was carried out and he had to take out a bank loan of £15,000
in order to pay them.
The work was completed on 13 August. Mr C says he received no replies to his emails and
no contact at all from SOCs loss adjusters whilst the work was in progress. The invoices Mr
C had paid amounted to £57,601.36 inclusive of VAT.
Mr C was then contacted by a surveyor appointed by the loss adjuster and he attended the
property to prepare a report on 26 August. His report recommended that SOC pay
£28,659.79, subject to £1,000 excess, which was the surveyors estimate of the cost of the
repairs based on what had been itemised in the plumbers invoices provided to Mr C. The
surveyor said that the plumbers costs were excessive.
Mr C complained stating that he should be refunded the full costs of the repairs and the
interest that he had paid on his bank loan. He also complained that he had received no
contact for the first 6 weeks of his claim and no reply to any of his emails.
SOC refused his claim and stood by their surveyors estimate of the reasonable costs. They
said that the work had proceeded without authority from SOC and therefore their position
had been prejudiced. They accepted that there had been poor service at the beginning of the
claim and offered £150 compensation.
Mr C was not happy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator did not
uphold the complaint. He said that SOC should have been provided with quotes before the
work began so that they were given an opportunity to consider the claim and approve the
work. He concluded that it was reasonable for SOC to pay what their surveyor estimated to
be a reasonable cost for the work, and to refuse to refund he interest paid on his loan. He
also thought that the £150 compensation was reasonable for SOCs poor service in dealing
with the claim.
Mr C did not accept the investigators view and has brought his complaint to me.  
My provision decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 7 April 2021. I said:
SOC have not taken issue with Mr Cs claim under the policy for escape of water. They 
have already paid out a sum that they believe is reasonable to cover the damage. The issue 
is the amount of the claim, and whether they should cover the full costs as paid by Mr C, and 
the cost of his bank loan.
I have looked carefully at the terms of Mr Cs landlords insurance policy to see whether it
offers any assistance in relation to how claims should be dealt with. Page 3 states that Mr C
must provide all the help and information necessary to assist SOC settle his claim.
Additionally, at page 23 it says when settling claims We will decide whether to repair,
replace or reinstate the damaged part of the buildings. We may do this by using one of our
suppliers. We will pay the full cost of the work, including any professional, demolition or
local-authority costs or fees we have agreed, as long as the work is finished without delay;
however, we will not pay more than the cost of the repair or replacement or any amount in
excess of the declared sum insured.
I have also looked carefully at the letter sent to Mr C by SOC on 1 July. Although this asks
Mr C to do three things, I note that it does not specifically tell Mr C that he should not start
work without authority.
I have carefully considered whether Mr C has fulfilled his obligations under the policy. He
contacted SOC as soon as he was notified by his tenants of the water leak and provided as
much information as he had. His request for assistance in identifying a suitable expert was
declined. SOC did not offer to send out anyone to assess the damage. Mr C was abroad and
made efforts to obtain two quotes as he had been asked to do, but without success. He then
acted on a personal recommendation and requested the national firm of plumbers to attend
and quote. When he was informed by them that work was required immediately, he
instructed them to commence and he informed SOC by email. He then continued to provide
progress reports, photos and invoices throughout the time the work was in progress. I think,
therefore, that Mr C fulfilled his obligation to provide help and information to SOC in order for
them to settle his claim.
SOC say that Mr C did not obtain authority to begin the work and thereby prejudiced their
position. SOC sent a letter to Mr C on 1 July. There was no further contact from them until
Mr C was contacted by the surveyor on 18 August. By this time the work was completed.
SOC were aware that Mr C was abroad and that there were tenants living in the property.
They were also aware that emergency repairs were required as it was stated on the claim
form that had been completed. SOC offered Mr C no support or advice in relation to
obtaining estimates or carrying out the work. They did not offer to send their surveyor to
assess the damage. Mr C specifically asked for help finding a plumber, but his request was
declined.Mr C had tenants who remained living in the property throughout this time. As a landlord he
had a duty to ensure that the property was safe. When the plumbers told him that the kitchen
ceiling was unsafe, I accept that it was reasonable for him to proceed to carry out these
repairs immediately. Mr C made contact with SOC to inform them and provided the first
invoice shortly after. If SOC had taken issue with Mr C instructing the plumbers without their
authority, they could have raised it with Mr C at this point and halted the work. They did not.
Mr C emailed SOC eight times over the course of the next four weeks sending in photos,
progress reports and invoices. At no time did SOC raise any concerns regarding the work or
ask Mr C to stop. They did not reply to any of the emails or offer any assistance.
I think that the issue regarding the lack of contact at the start of Mr Cs claim is more
significant than a simple failure in the level of service. The lack of contact meant that Mr C
was not alerted to any problems with him commencing the work or any issues regarding his
invoices being paid. SOC knew that a claim was being made but made no contact with Mr C
to offer advice, assess the damage themselves or find out what was happening until Mr C
had completed the work.
I accept that Mr C should have provided estimates, as requested by SOC in their letter, and
that their position was prejudiced by his failure to provide these before starting work.
However, I think it was reasonable for Mr C to have started the work due to the emergency
nature of the works required. I also think it was reasonable for him to have continued the
work due to the lack of response from SOC. I also believe that SOC had the opportunity to
ask Mr C to halt the works from the moment they were alerted that repairs had started. I do
not think it fair that after six weeks they take issue with the way that Mr C has proceeded.
SOCs offer of settlement is based on their surveyors report. Their surveyor was not
instructed until after all the repairs were completed. Neither was he provided with the
photographs Mr C had sent to SOC showing the damage and the work being done. His
report was prepared without the benefit of this information.
The surveyor says that based on the standard cost of plumbers in the locality, the costs
charged were excessive. It is not my role to determine whether the cost Mr C paid for the
repairs was reasonable. My role is to try to put Mr C back into the position he would have
been in if SOC had not done anything wrong. I therefore think it is reasonable for SOC to
pay for the full cost of the repairs as undertaken by Mr C, and evidenced by his invoices.
The full cost of the repairs was £57,601.36 less £1,000 policy excess. SOC have already
paid £27,659.79 which leaves £28,941.57 outstanding.
I also think it is reasonable for SOC to pay for the interest on Mr Cs bank loan. Mr C emailed
SOC advising them that he was running out of money to pay the invoices. He also warned
them that he would have to take out a bank loan. He gave them an opportunity to respond
and pay the invoices. As he did not receive any response from SOC Mr C had to raise the
funds to pay for the ongoing repairs. As I have already stated, Mr C should be put back into
the position he would have been in if SOC had not done anything wrong. I therefore think
that SOC should cover the cost of the bank loan. I would ask Mr C to provide full details of
this. I understand that the loan was repaid in full when Mr C received the payment from SOC
and that there was no early repayment fee.
In his report the surveyor has raised the issue of betterment. If SOC believe that this remains
an issue, I would ask them to provide full details.
SOC have already paid Mr C the sum of £150 for poor service. I think this is fair as it reflects
the six week period of time that Mr C received no contact from SOC. I do not intend to make
any additional award for distress or inconvenience.Responses to my provisional decision
SOC responded that they thought that Mr C had not mitigated his loss and that there was 
fault on both sides. They offered to pay Mr C 50% of the outstanding cost of the repairs. 
They queried why Mr C had not made efforts to chase them by telephone to get agreement 
for the repair costs. They said they had no record of any calls from him.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. He says that after his initial call to SOC when he 
informed them of the leak, he tried to call them many times but without success. He says he 
did not manage to speak to anyone, but just received a recorded message. He says he 
made these calls from his number abroad and purchased an international phone card in 
order to keep costs down. He says that he is not able to provide dates of the calls as he no 
longer has the phone which was replaced when it was damaged. He says he did not use his 
UK mobile number as it was pay as you go and was used for incoming calls only. He asked 
for a refund of his phone card.
Mr C did not agree that he failed to mitigate his loss and did not accept SOCs offer to settle.
Mr C also provided confirmation of the interest he paid on his bank loan which was £72.73. 
He says that he repaid the loan immediately he received the payment from SOC.
In my provisional decision I mentioned that SOC had offered Mr C £150 in compensation for 
poor service. Mr C says he has not received this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the responses I received from both SOC and Mr C but I havent seen 
anything that persuades me to change my mind.
SOC say that Mr C should have mitigated his loss by calling them to chase up his emails. 
SOC say that they have no record of any calls from Mr C. I am not sure what records SOC 
would have if the calls were not answered in person, but I have not been provided with any 
details. I note that Mr C did not call from his UK mobile number but from an international 
number. Mr C has provided a detailed explanation of how he made the calls from abroad. I 
have seen evidence that Mr C bought an international phone card at the time of the claim 
and I accept his explanation for not wanting to use his UK mobile phone. SOC have not said 
they werent using a recorded message during this time and Im not sure how Mr C would 
have known this if he had not rung. I am therefore satisfied on balance that Mr C did attempt 
to speak to SOC about the repairs. 
SOC have offered to settle this matter by paying half of the outstanding repairs. They 
suggest that they should share liability with Mr C. Mr C does not accept this and believes he 
did what he could to contact them. I agree. He emailed them repeatedly and tried to speak to 
them on the telephone. The fact that Mr Cs calls were not answered was not Mr Cs fault. I 
am not sure what more he could reasonably have been expected to do. I note that SOC 
made no attempt to telephone Mr C. Apart from their initial letter, SOC did not telephone or 
email Mr C at all for four weeks. I dont think it is therefore fair to suggest that liability should 
be shared or that Mr C did not attempt to mitigate his loss. 
I expect SOC to pay Mr C the full amount of the outstanding repairs upon receipt of copies of 
the repair invoices and proof of payment, if these have not already been received. SOC can 
then also calculate the interest payable from the date Mr C made payment. I am satisfied that Mr C paid £72.73 interest on his bank loan and I think that it is reasonable 
for this to be paid by SOC. Mr C did mitigate this loss by paying the bank loan back in full as 
soon as he received the payment from SOC.
I also note that the £150 compensation that SOC offered to Mr C has not yet been paid. I 
can see that Mr C has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of SOCs poor service 
and has incurred minor expenses such as for a phone card. In respect of all this I require 
SOC to pay Mr C £150 compensation, provided it has not already been paid. I think that this 
is fair.
SOCs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the 
same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to:
pay the outstanding cost of the repairs in the sum of £28,941.57 to Mr C upon receipt 
of copy invoices and proof of payment;
pay interest on the outstanding cost of the repairs from the date that Mr C made 
payment to the date that the monies are paid to him by Society of Lloyds; 
pay to Mr C the bank loan interest of £72.73; and
pay £150 compensation to Mr C.
Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman