DRN-3207173
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays and poor service when he applied for a mortgage with Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. He says due to Halifax instructing a virtual valuation he didnt 
find out there was damp in the property. Mr M says the matter has caused him considerable 
stress and impacted his family relationships. Mr M asks for compensation of £1,500.
What happened
Mr M started his mortgage application in July 2020. He hoped to buy a property at auction. 
Mr M paid for the auction property to be valued prior to the auction. This purchase didnt 
proceed. 
In September 2020 Halifax extended the decision in principle to give Mr M time to find a 
property. Mr M found a property and gave Halifax details of the property he wanted to buy on 
30 September 2020. In October and November 2020 Halifax asked for evidence of income 
and the source of the deposit so it could assess affordability. A valuation was carried out and 
Halifax issued a mortgage offer at the end of November 2020.
Mr M says Halifax made errors which caused delays and stress. He says its loan to value 
calculation was wrong, meaning the products it offered had high interest rates, and it 
charged him fees several times. These issues were put right. However, since completing the 
purchase Mr M says hes found problems with the property, such as damp, that will cost 
£3,000 to put right. Mr M says this would have been picked up if Halifax had instructed a 
physical valuation instead of a virtual valuation and hed have been able to re-negotiate the 
purchase price.
Our investigator said Mr M had chosen a basic valuation which was for the benefit of Halifax. 
If hed wanted a more detailed survey he could have arranged this. Halifax had apologised 
for poor service, refunded fees and paid compensation of £250. Our investigator said that 
was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he expected more compensation in light of the costs of the 
repairs and the undue stress of the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more likely to have happened in 
light of that evidence and the wider circumstances.
Delays and errors with the application process
The application Mr M started in July 2020 was for a property purchase that didnt go ahead. 
It was 30 September 2020 when he contacted Halifax with details of the property he went on 
to buy. I dont think its fair to say that Halifax was responsible for the delay between July 
2020 and the end of September 2020.
Halifax asked for information about Mr Ms income in early October 2020. I think this was 
reasonable. Rules of mortgage regulation require Halifax to carry out a stringent affordability 
assessment before offering a mortgage. Ive looked at Halifaxs notes about the additional 
questions and information it requested. This included proof of overtime income, an 
explanation for requesting payment deferrals when Mr M had said his income wasnt 
affected by the pandemic, and about adverse credit. Halifax also asked more about the 
deposit, as some of the funds were in accounts in the names of other family members. I 
think these requests were reasonable. 
Halifax did make errors. There was a problem caused by having valuations for more than 
one property. This led to an incorrect loan to value calculation, which meant Mr M was 
offered the wrong product range. Mr M says this could have resulted in him taking out a 
more expensive product. However, this didnt happen. The property value was corrected and 
Mr M chose a product from the correct range before the mortgage offer was issued. 
It looks like this issue also caused a delay with the valuation of the second property. 
However, I can see that Halifax was still looking into questions about Mr Ms income, credit 
commitments and the deposit until late November 2020, after the valuation was carried out. 
So it seems unlikely that this caused a delay to the overall application process.
The mortgage adviser Mr M had been dealing with went on holiday. Mr M was given the 
wrong contact details for the new mortgage adviser. This caused inconvenience and he had 
to send information more than once. 
The product fee Mr M paid in July 2020 wasnt refunded when it should have been, and 
Mr M was charged other fees more than once. Halifax refunded these fees, with interest, and 
paid £100 to Mr M for the inconvenience. 
Halifax says the application could have progressed more quickly at times. It paid 
compensation of £150 for poor service. The mortgage application was started in early 
October 2020 and a mortgage offer was issued in late November 2020. I dont think this is so 
unreasonable as to make it fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay further 
compensation. 
Did Halifax make an error with the property valuation?
Mr M is unhappy that Halifax instructed a virtual valuation. He says he was told that 
surveyors werent carrying out physical valuations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He says 
he wasnt advised of the benefits of a more detailed valuation. Mr M also said he wanted a 
more comprehensive survey, but agreed to the virtual survey because he was told this was 
the quickest route. 
Mr M says if Halifax had instructed a physical inspection of the property hed have been 
made aware of problems with the property. Hed have had the opportunity to re-negotiate the 
price.
Ive listened to the recording of Mr Ms call with Halifax in July 2020 when it discussed the 
valuation options with Mr M. The adviser told Mr M the valuation is really important and he 
needed to decide which is the best option for him. First, she described a level 1 valuation as 
the lowest cost and the fastest. But Mr M might not get a report on the condition of the 
property and theres no guarantee a surveyor will visit the property as the valuation might be 
done using market data. The adviser then said Mr M could upgrade to a level 2 valuation, at additional cost, which gives more detail and a report of any visible defects. She said this 
could take longer as the surveyor would have to visit the property. Or there was a third 
option for a building survey which involves a thorough inspection and detailed report on any 
issues.
Mr M chose a level 1 (basic) valuation. Having listened to the call, I dont think Mr M was 
misled about what this involved or the other options available to him.
Halifax instructed a valuation of the property. This was for Halifaxs benefit, to help it assess 
whether the property was good security for the loan. Id expect Halifax to instruct a suitably 
qualified person to carry out the valuation. As it instructed a firm of surveyors, I think it did 
this. It didnt have to require the valuer to visit the property. 
Mr M paid for a basic valuation on 30 September 2020  the same day he gave details of the 
property he wanted to buy to Halifax. Halifax had said that a basic valuation was the lowest 
cost and the fastest. No doubt this was something that Mr M took into account when 
deciding which valuation option was right for him. But Mr M could have asked for a more 
detailed valuation or instructed his own survey if he wanted more information about the 
condition of the property. 
I dont think Halifax made an error with the valuation. It explained the options to Mr M, 
including that there was no guarantee a surveyor would visit the property for a basic 
valuation. Mr M chose a basic valuation, and Halifax instructed a suitably qualified person to 
carry out the valuation. Im sorry that Mr M has found problems with the property, but I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay compensation for this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think that Bank of 
Scotland plc has done enough to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman