DRN-3749354
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy as he feels esure Insurance Limited havent fairly valued his vehicle after it 
was written off.
What happened
Mr B purchased an annual motor policy with esure which commenced on 1 December 2021. 
In May 2022 he was involved in a collision, shortly after esure deemed his vehicle a total 
loss.
They used some well-known trade guides to establish the pre-accident market value of his 
vehicle. They took an average of these and deducted £451 for pre-accident damage, offering 
Mr B £2,200.
Mr B wasnt happy as he was unable to replace his vehicle with this, he also needed to 
deduct his excess from this amount. In their final response esure said they felt it was a fair 
valuation and they wouldnt be increasing it.
Our investigator felt esure had been fair so didnt ask them to do anything more. As Mr B 
remains unhappy its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr B but Ive explained my reasoning below.
esure have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and the terms and conditions 
set out the agreement between them and Mr B.
The policy defines market value as:
The market  value  is the amount  you could  reasonably  have  expected  to sell your 
car for on the open  market  immediately  before  your accident  or loss.  Our 
assessment  of the value  is based  on cars of the same  make  and model  and of a 
similar  age, condition  and mileage  at the time of accident  or loss.  This value  is 
based  on research  from motor  trade  guides  including:  xxxxxxx.  This may not be the 
price  you paid when  you purchased  the car .
Our service doesnt value vehicles, instead we check to see the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use 
relevant trade guides, as well as considering other information such as adverts. But we tend 
to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices.
esure used the vehicle valuation guides as well as their engineers report and opinion to 
determine what they felt was a fair settlement. 
Ive checked the trade guides for the same make, model and specification of Mr Bs car at 
the time of the accident. And Im satisfied esure have been fair in reaching the figure of 
£2651 as it falls within the range of the guide values that they checked.
Insurance is there to put the insured back in the position they wouldve been in had the 
accident not occurred. So esure then deducted £451 for pre-accidental damage to represent 
the cars value with the pre-accident damage. The engineers report suggests the cost of 
repairing the pre-accident damage is around £1800. 
Having reviewed the engineers report and photos of the pre-accident damage I think esure 
have been fair and reasonable with the deduction. Its clear there was pre-accident damage 
on the vehicle which wouldve impacted its market value. And given the overall estimated 
cost to repair the pre-accident damage esure have only deducted around 25% of that cost, 
which is less than Id expect, bringing their settlement offer to £2200.
Im aware Mr B only purchased the vehicle around six months earlier for a higher price and 
that hes shared online adverts for the same make and model of his vehicle where the asking 
price is higher. I appreciate he has also said he has been unable to find a replacement 
vehicle with the settlement made less his excess. However, adverts often list an asking price 
which isnt the final sale price. Im satisfied esures settlement is a fair market value for the 
vehicle given their reliance on the motor trade guides and its pre-accident condition.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman