DRN-3799084
The complaint
Mrs K complains that she hasnt received the settlement vouchers issued by
Domestic & General Plc (D&G) after her washing machine was deemed beyond repair.
What happened
Mrs K had a mechanical and electrical breakdown insurance policy for her washing machine,
underwritten by D&G.
Following a call out for issues with Mrs Ks washing machine, it was deemed beyond repair
by D&G. As a result of being beyond repair, D&G arranged for a voucher for the original
retail chain to be sent to Mrs K, totalling £340.
Mrs K says she hasnt received the settlement voucher. D&G say the voucher has been
used in one of the retail chain stores and has a zero balance, so they wont reissue another
voucher to Mrs K.
Mrs K raised several complaints with D&G, and whilst they didnt agree to reissue the
vouchers, they offered a total of £20 compensation for sending the vouchers by post when
email was agreed and for saying they would be reissued when that wasnt the case. As
Mrs K remained unhappy with D&Gs position, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mrs K had
received a letter from D&G saying the vouchers would be issued separately, so its likely the
voucher was sent to the correct address. But, he said he noted that D&G had asked for
additional information from the retailer about the redeemed voucher, so he said it was fair for
D&G not to reissue another voucher until they had received a response.
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator. D&G also responded to say they had already
received a response from the retailer, which said when the voucher had been used and
where  which was two days after it had been issued.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings, before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. This is because the investigator 
said it was reasonable for D&G to await a response from the retailer about the 
settlement voucher redemption, when in fact D&G already had received this. 
Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision to take this into account, and to 
provisionally decide whether D&G has acted fairly and reasonably by not reissuing 
the voucher.
Mrs Ks washing machine was deemed beyond repair. On 22 February 2022 D&G 
sent Mrs K a letter explaining this and outlining that a voucher for the value of £340 
would be issued and sent separately. Mrs K received this letter.
On receipt of this letter, Mrs K contacted D&G to say she hadnt received the 
settlement voucher, and she was under the impression it was being sent by email. 
However, D&G said it was being sent via post. D&G said it could take up to ten days 
to receive it.
Mrs K was unhappy with this, as she was unable to do any washing until she could 
replace her washing machine. D&G said they could request it be sent by email, but 
as it had already been issued by post, Mrs K said she would await receipt of it. Mrs K 
called D&G several times in the following two weeks to say she still hadnt received 
the voucher.
Ultimately D&G said the voucher had been redeemed on 24 February 2022 and had 
a zero balance. So, they said they wouldnt reissue another voucher. Mrs K is 
unhappy as she says she didnt receive it.
Our investigator said it wasnt unreasonable for D&G to await a response from the 
retailer about the voucher redemption before reissuing it. But D&G had already 
received a response from the retailer outlining where it had been spent, and when.
D&G says the vouchers were sent to Mrs K and as she received the letter saying 
they would be sent separately, they say theyve done enough. D&G has also 
questioned why Mrs K would refuse them being resent by email when she called on 
23 February 2022 when she was already unhappy they were being sent by post.
However, having listened to the call, I think its clear that whilst Mrs K was unhappy 
with settlement vouchers being sent by post, as this contradicted what she was told 
previously, she was concerned now requesting it by email would further delay 
matters. She needed a washing machine, so reluctantly she accepted waiting for the 
post. I can see why Mrs K made this decision, so as not to cause further delay, and I 
dont think that decision was unreasonable.
The retailer has said the vouchers were spent two days after they were issued. And 
they have said which store they were spent in  which was in another city to Mrs K. 
Even if the retailer was able to detail what items were purchased, this still wouldnt 
demonstrate who received or spent them.But having listened to the calls made by Mrs K, whilst I cant know for certain, on 
balance, Im minded to conclude its most likely Mrs K didnt receive the voucher. Its 
clear from the calls that Mrs K was distressed by not being able to do washing, and 
she made several calls to D&G outlining the same. This included after the vouchers 
had already been redeemed. Having taken everything into account, on balance, Im 
persuaded that Mrs K didnt receive the settlement.
With this in mind, Im minded to conclude that D&G should reissue the settlement 
vouchers to Mrs K as Im persuaded on balance she didnt receive them. Although 
D&G may have issued the vouchers, if Mrs K hasnt actually received them and been 
able to use them, I cant conclude D&G has acted fairly or reasonably or in line with 
the terms of her policy as her claim effectively hasnt yet been settled.
Its clear that this has been both inconvenient and distressing for Mrs K. She outlined 
during the calls to D&G the impact not having a useable washing machine was 
having on her.
During the calls Mrs K was also given conflicting information and told that the 
vouchers would be reissued, then later not. And she was told she was within the ten 
days of them being sent, when that wasnt the case. And during the time of all the 
calls, the vouchers had in fact already been redeemed so Mrs K was told to await 
something which wouldnt ever arrive.
Mrs K also tried to complain about one of the agents she spoke to when the call was
unexpectedly ended. When she called again and tried to raise a complaint about this, 
the next agent she spoke to transferred her without warning to that original agent. Its 
clear this put Mrs K into a difficult position, at a time when she was already 
distressed about not receiving settlement.
Whilst D&G has offered a total of £20 compensation for the service Mrs K has 
received, having taken everything into account, and the impact this has had on Mrs 
K, I think further compensation is warranted. So, in addition to reissuing the 
settlement vouchers, Im also minded to conclude D&G should compensate Mrs K a 
further £50 (in addition to the £20 already offered) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct D&G to reissue the £340 settlement 
vouchers, and in addition to the £20 compensation already offered, to pay a further £50 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
D&G responded confirming they accepted my provisional decision, they didnt add anything 
further.
Mrs K responded and advised she had purchased a second-hand replacement washing 
machine, so she said she would rather the settlement was cash. She also said she thinks 
the compensation should be increased as she had to use a friends washing machine, and 
for the amount of time it has taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached, and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
I note Mrs K has advised she has since bought a second-hand washing machine, and she 
has therefore asked for the settlement in cash. However, Im satisfied reissuing the vouchers 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The policy terms confirm this is how a claim 
would be settled where vouchers are available, and Im satisfied by doing so, D&G would be 
settling the claim in line with the terms.
Whether Mrs K decides to buy a new machine, and to sell the second-hand machine, or to 
use the vouchers towards other items at that retailer, is a decision for her to make. But Im 
satisfied it is fair and reasonable for vouchers to be reissued in settlement of the claim. 
I recognise that Mrs K believes further compensation is warranted, and that she had to use a 
friends machine to do washing. However, I recognised the impact on Mrs K in not having a 
fully functioning machine (it was noisy) and not receiving the settlement in my provisional 
decision. And whilst I note Mrs Ks additional comments, Im satisfied an additional £50 
compensation (taking the total to £70) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not 
going to increase this amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Domestic & General Plc to:
Reissue the £340 settlement vouchers to Mrs K
In addition to the £20 compensation already offered, pay Mrs K a further £50 
compensation (£70 total)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman