DRN-1932661
 
The complaint
Mr O has complained to us that Skipton Building Society (Skipton), mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) in or around May 1999. He says he bought 
the policy because he was led to believe that otherwise his mortgage application would be 
unsuccessful.
Background
Mr O bought the policy to go with a mortgage. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. The 
mortgage ended in 2008.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Os complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the matters been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to him and 
so I will explain why.
Mr O told us that his MPPI was sold to him during a meeting and Ive seen that Skipton 
agrees. That means Skipton needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for his situation 
but also that he was given enough clear information so that he could make an informed 
choice about buying the cover. 
Ive looked at the available paperwork from the time of the sale. I see from the mortgage 
application form that Skipton said that MPPI was something that it strongly recommended, 
although I think this means that Mr O  was being asked to consider buying MPPI rather than 
that he had to buy it. Mr O ticked a box to show he wasnt arranging to take out MPPI 
elsewhere and another one to show he wanted to purchase Skiptons MPPI cover. He also 
specified that he wanted the policy to cover his monthly mortgage payments and set out 
what that was. 
I think all this shows that Mr O was interested in buying this type of cover.
Ive also seen the mortgage offer which says it was a condition of the mortgage that Mr O 
take out either Skiptons own house and contents insurance or its MPPI cover  but not both. 
Given that that Mr O had also chosen to take out Skiptons house and contents policy, I think 
he would have been aware that the MPPI was something he didnt have to take if he didnt want it, or that he could arrange elsewhere. And Ive noticed that the policy was free for 
6 months if hed taken out both MPPI and house and contents cover. The mortgage offer 
explains that Mr O would be paying for the MPPI after that. 
It is of course possible that Skipton filled in some or all of the paperwork and that Mr O 
simply signed the forms that he was were given. However, looking at the paperwork and 
given the choices he made about MPPI, I would have expected him to read through the 
forms before signing them. So I think its likely he would have known he had the option not to 
buy it if he didnt want to but he decided to go ahead and buy it.
Next Ive had a look at the key features of the policy and whether Mr O could have been 
better  informed about how the policy worked, especially about the things that could have 
been a disadvantage to him.  Mr O was eligible for the cover and I cant see that he would 
have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions and limitations, such as those 
relating to not being in good health at the start of the cover. So I think Mr O could have made 
a successful claim on the policy had he needed to.
The MPPI policy would have covered Mr Os mortgage payments for up to 12 months if he 
made a successful claim. Mr O told has he was entitled to good benefits from his employer 
of up to 6 months. He also told us he had some savings to hand at the time  hes given us 
some evidence about his savings but not of the level of savings he had when he took out the 
MPPI cover. He also told us he had insurance cover for other lending hed taken  but its 
likely that the protection that offered would only relate to those specific payments. 
Overall, from what Ive seen I think Mr O would have benefitted from having the MPPI cover 
and it would have avoided the need for him to dig into the financial resources he had at the 
time. So I dont think I can say its likely that the policy was mis-sold. The MPPI protected Mr 
Os home which would be at risk were he to fall behind on mortgage pavements and so 
would have provided him with stability and reassurance if he was unable to work. 
The insurance initially cost Mr O around £30.00 per month, which appears to have been 
reasonable value for the benefit it provided and I havent seen anything to make me think 
that Mr O couldnt afford it.
Although Im not sure that Skipton gave him all the information it should have, I dont think 
better information would have made Mr O change his mind about buying the cover.
Overall, having looked at his complaint with care, I dont find Mr O was mis-sold the MPPI 
policy.
So, taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably uphold 
Mr Os complaint.
Ive also seen that Skipton has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O 
relating to the share of commission and profit share it received. 
As a final point, I would like to reassure Mr O that I have fully considered everything hes told 
us and all the documentation hes sent through  including his comments following our 
adjudicators review of his complaint. Having done so, however, Im still not able to make a 
finding that Mr Os MPPI was mis-sold. I am sorry we have been unable to help Mr O on this 
occasion and I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to him, especially 
as I am aware of the difficult circumstances he has been experiencing. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Skipton Building 
Society. And given that it has already refunded the commission and profit share due to Mr O, 
it doesnt need to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18August2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman