DRN-2979397
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) caused delays to her 
pension transfer which left her with financial losses. 
What happened
Mrs C had a personal pension plan with Standard Life. 
In June 2019, after taking financial advice, Mrs C decided to transfer her pension savings 
with Standard Life to another provider (provider A). Her intention was then to invest 
£113,000 into a named fund and £85,000 into a structured product which had yet to be 
confirmed.
Standard Life were instructed to start the transfer process on 8 August 2019. The instruction 
was for a cash and in-specie transfer with the non-specie funds being sold down to cash at 
the last available point in the transfer process.
Mrs Cs husband had also requested a pension transfer at the same time as she had. His 
transfer had been subject to some of the issues and delays that affected Mrs Cs transfer. 
But, as he had one fewer in-specie sale, his transfer completed on 14 October 2019. Mrs Cs 
transfer had a second in-specie transfer. 
Mrs Cs pension transfer was delayed. Unhappy, she complained to Standard Life about the 
delays on 19 February 2020, through the CEO. She said she felt that Standard Lifes front 
office team and back office team didnt communicate well with each other, and that this had 
led to the need for further exchanges and escalations from her. She also felt that Standard 
Life had caused lengthy delays which she said staff had attributed to resourcing levels. And 
she felt that it hadnt been possible to prioritise the completion of key steps in her transfer 
process even after shed experienced delays. She felt that the service had been terrible. And 
that shed been dissuaded from complaining earlier because of: the extensive catalogue of 
issues and delays shed experienced. She further complained that:
Shed been told that there was a delay due to part of the transfer having not been 
completed as an in-specie transfer, when it had been received over 3 weeks earlier 
by provider A
Shed been told to expect her pension assets to be sold to cash by 17 February to 18 
February 2020. When this didnt happen, she was then told that it would take a 
further 22 working days before the switch would complete. And that there was 
nothing Standard Life could do to prioritize her transfer
She said her transfer was yet to complete, but that she was still paying Standard 
Lifes platform fees. She said these were 50% more expensive than provider As. 
Mrs C also said her complaint had taken up a lot of her time. And had been 
frustrating and stressful.
Mrs C asked Standard Life to complete the sale of her pension assets and transfer the funds 
to provider A as soon as possible. She also wanted compensation for the delays, the higher 
fees, the time shed had to spend on her complaint, and the frustration and distress shed 
suffered.
Mrs C said shed been told that a CEO complaint would be reviewed within 48 hours. But 
she said she had no acknowledgement about her complaint until 25 February 2020. And that 
her pension assets werent sold to cash until between 29 February and 2 March 2020 
despite her repeated requests for the sale to go ahead as soon as possible due to the 
potential for sudden market value reductions. 
Mrs C sent a follow up complaint on 26 February 2020. She said that not only had her assets 
not been sold to cash yet, but the value of her pension assets had fallen from £197,217 to 
£192,462. She said if the asset sale had been completed by the 17 or 18 February 2020  
as shed been told it would  her assets wouldve been worth £197,970. She asked Standard 
Life to compensate her for the loss. 
Mrs C complained again on 29 February 2020. She said that her assets still hadnt been 
sold. And that her pension assets were now only valued at £183,929. She felt shed lost over 
£13,000 as a result of Standard Lifes delays. 
The transfer was eventually completed on 6 March 2020. Mrs C said that the value of her 
pension savings had fallen by around 6% between the time she complained to Standard Life 
and the completion of the transfer.
Mrs C complained again on 13 March 2020. She said that the continued delay was causing 
her further frustration and distress, particularly given the impact of those delays on her 
pension value. She chased a response on 30 March 2020. 
On 30 March 2020, Standard Life replied to Mrs Cs CEO complaint. They upheld the 
complaint. They apologised for the delay to the asset transfer. They said that transfers with 
an in-specie element generally take much longer than a full cash transfer. And that it was 
normal for the process to take a number of weeks to complete. They acknowledged that Mrs 
C may not have been aware of this. And apologised for not setting her expectations in that 
respect. They accepted that they had caused delays to the transfer process. And said it was 
reasonable to suggest that the funds couldve been sold down on 16 November 2019. They 
said this wouldve meant Mrs Cs transfer value wouldve been received by provider A on 26 
November 2019. They said theyd asked provider A to do a pricing calculation so that they 
could arrange payment for any financial loss their delays had caused Mrs C. Standard Life 
also offered to pay Mrs C £200 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. 
Mrs C replied on 31 March 2020. She acknowledged that Standard Life had accepted 
responsibility for the delays. But felt that fair redress should be based on her specific 
complaint, which was that her assets should have been sold no later than 17 or 18 February 
2020. She felt that she should be compensated as if the transfer had completed on one of 
those dates. So asked that the average value of her assets on those dates be used to 
assess the compensation. She said this would lead to a compensation payment of £13,784. 
She didnt agree with Standard Life that redress should be based on the assets having been 
sold down on 16 November 2019. She said she hadnt made a formal complaint at that time. 
She also said that Standard Life had yet to address her complaint about having to pay higher 
platform fees while waiting for the transfer to complete. 
Standard Life replied to Mrs C on 3 April 2020. They said that whenever they considered any 
customer complaint, they focused on ensuring that they reviewed the complaint holistically. 
They said they took their guidance from this service in this respect. They said that they were committed to putting customers back into the position they wouldve been in, had their 
service failures or errors not occurred. They said theyd followed this approach in this case. 
Standard Life also said that Mrs C had been told that there would be a further 20-day delay 
when the asset sale didnt complete by 17 or 18 February. They said she couldve sold down 
her funds at any time during the transfer process. So they couldnt consider any subsequent 
drop in investment value between those dates and the final dates of the transfer of her plan. 
Standard Life offered a further £100 compensation in respect of the additional fees she said 
shed incurred due to the transfer delay. 
Mrs C replied to Standard Life on 20 April 2020. She said the crux of her complaint was the 
delay in the sale of assets to cash in February 2020. She said that while previous delays had 
occurred in 2019, they werent just Standard Lifes responsibility. So she felt that Standard 
Life needed to compensate her for the actual loss shed incurred - £13,784 - rather than one 
theyd estimated. She said that if they obtained valuations for her pension going back to 16 
November 2019, as theyd suggested, that was three months before her complaint. She 
accepted the £100 Standard Life had offered in respect of the higher fees shed paid. Mrs C 
was unhappy that Standard Life had told her she couldve sold down her funds at any time. 
She asked them how she couldve done that, given shed requested it so many times and it 
hadnt happened. She said that that option had never been mentioned to her. 
Standard Life replied to Mrs C on 28 April 2020. They said theyd acted as the administrator 
of her plan. This meant that their staff couldnt have advised her to sell down her funds, as 
they werent entitled to provide financial advice.  They said that it wasnt appropriate that 
only one element of the delayed transfer was considered. And therefore they werent 
prepared to pay the compensation shed requested. 
Mrs C replied to Standard Life on 28 May 2020. She also discussed her case with this 
service at that time. She summarised her complaint. She said that the investments shed 
bought after the transfer in March 2020 were not the same assets she wouldve bought if the 
transfer had completed in November 2019. Mrs C still considered that the further delay from 
February 2020 to March 2020 had caused the majority of her loss and that it would be fair to 
consider compensation over only that period. She also felt that if a date in November 2019 
were to be used it needed to be the correct date. She felt that the correct date to use 
wouldve been 8 November 2019, not 16 November 2019. She also asked Standard Life to 
reassess the £200 theyd offered her for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused her. 
Standard Life issued their final response to the complaint on 23 July 2020. They said they 
werent prepared to alter the redress approach theyd offered on 30 March 2020. They said 
their redress fairly reflected when the transfer shouldve been concluded. They also felt that 
it was fair to base their redress on the investments Mrs C had actually made with provider A 
rather than the investments she said she wouldve made if the transfer had completed 
sooner. But they said that if provider A could provide evidence of alternative investment 
instructions between November 2019 and March 2020, they could take those into account.
Unhappy, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. She said she hadnt felt it necessary 
to formally complain to Standard Life until 19 February 2020. She said that if shed known 
that she couldve sold her assets to cash at any point in the process she wouldve issued 
sale instructions on 19 February 2020, rather than making a CEO complaint. She felt it was 
unfair that Standard Life had focussed their redress offer on the earlier delays to the second 
in-specie transfer. She didnt feel this focussed on the direct impact of the delay in the sale 
to cash between February and March 2020. She also said that she wouldve invested in 
different assets if the transfer had gone ahead sooner. Mrs C also said it wasnt clear to her 
how the redress offered would be calculated. She also said that she didnt consider shed 
been offered enough compensation for the extensive distress, frustration and stress caused 
by the ongoing complaint. Mrs C said she felt fair redress to be around £13,784, plus interest. She also said she hadnt yet received the £100 Standard Life had offered  and 
shed accepted  in respect of the higher platform fees shed paid during the delay.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that by backdating the 
transfer to the date it shouldve completed, Standard Life had used the most pragmatic 
method for the redress calculation. He also felt that the market fall in in February/March 
2020 was something that Mrs C would always have experienced, regardless of when the 
transfer took place. He agreed that Mrs C hadnt been able to invest as shed wanted, but 
felt that it was fair to use the investment she actually had made as the benchmark for 
redress. Our investigator also considered that the £200 offered for distress and 
inconvenience was fair under the circumstances. 
Mrs C wanted to understand how Standard Life would apply the proposed settlement. Shed 
also queried the dates theyd proposed using. So our investigator asked Standard Life to 
confirm the redress methodology dates and the process they would use if Mrs C were to 
accept their offer. He also asked them if they were willing to provide the redress figures. Our 
investigator also asked Standard Life to comment on the 'Structured Products' that Mrs C 
had originally intended to invest in. 
Standard Life arranged for the redress calculation theyd offered to Mrs C to be carried out. 
The redress calculation was based on the amount of money that shouldve been sent to 
provider A on 26 November 2019. Provider A then carried out a calculation to confirm how 
many units in Mrs Cs chosen funds wouldve been bought had this happened. This was then 
compared against the units actually bought for the same amount in March 2020. The redress 
calculation showed that the delays to the pension transfer caused Mrs C no loss. 
Mrs C asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She said that this 
service had looked at the end to end process, instead of addressing the specific issue shed 
complained about. She felt this meant that Standard Life werent being held to account for 
the crux of her complaint, but instead could hide behind their earlier errors. She also didnt 
agree that it was fair to use the investments shed eventually made in late March 2020 in the 
redress calculation. Mrs C also asked the ombudsman to reconsider the level of 
compensation shed been offered for distress and inconvenience. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mrs C. But 
having carefully considered the evidence Im satisfied that Standard Life have taken 
reasonable steps to put things right. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Standard Life caused delays to Mrs Cs pension transfer. What is 
disputed is if the redress theyve proposed is fair under the circumstances. 
Mrs Cs intention was to switch from a Standard Life pension to a pension with provider A. 
She had then planned to invest in a named fund and a to-be-decided structured investment. 
But by the time the switch had completed in March 2020, the possible structured product 
was closed to new business. And Mrs C had to make an alternative investment. From what I 
understand, Mrs C invested in the named fund shed always intended to invested in. 
From what I understand, there are three remaining points of dispute. They are:The redress calculation  in particular, which delays should be considered and what 
investments should it be based on;
The date on which the transfer shouldve been completed; and
The compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience the complaint has 
caused Mrs C.
Ill cover each of these points separately. 
The redress calculation
Standard Lifes position is that they have accepted responsibility for the delays they caused 
to Mrs Cs transfer. And that theyve based the redress calculation on the date the transfer 
shouldve gone ahead if theyd made no errors. 
Standard Life have also based the redress calculation on the investment Mrs C actually 
made after the transfer completed, rather than the one she said she wouldve made if the 
transfer had gone ahead without delay. They said that if no investment instruction was 
provided to provider A in November 2019, they could only carry out a redress calculation 
based on the investment choices actually made with provider A at the point funds were 
actually received by them. Standard Life also said that if provider A could provide evidence 
of alternative investment instructions between November 2019 and March 2020, they could 
take those into account.
Mrs Cs position is that she didnt complain about any delays to the process until the delay 
Standard Life caused after they didnt do what they said they would do by 17 or 18 February 
2020. Therefore she feels that compensation should be based on the financial loss the delay 
between 17 or 18 February 2020 and 6 March 2020 caused her. She feels this is relatively 
easy to calculate and is of the order of £14,000, plus interest.
Mrs C also considers that the delay caused her to change her investment strategy. She feels 
she lost the opportunity to invest in the structured fund shed intended as it was time 
sensitive. So she doesnt think the redress suggested by Standard Life puts her back into the 
position she wouldve been in if they hadnt caused delays.
I can confirm that this service expects businesses to put consumers as close as possible to 
the position they wouldve been in but for the businesss errors. That means that the 
business should take steps to work out when the desired outcome shouldve been 
completed, but for their mistakes. It doesnt allow a business  or a consumer  to ignore 
certain parts of a process. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to allow either a business or a 
consumer to choose which bits of a complaint should be considered as part of a complaint. 
While I acknowledge Mrs Cs point that she felt she only had cause to complain when 
Standard Life caused the delay between 17 or 18 February 2020 and 6 March 2020, I dont 
agree it would be fair to base redress on that period of time. Thats because the process 
didnt start in February 2020. It started in August 2019. So the correct process for Standard 
Life to follow when calculating the delays they caused over the whole transfer is to analyse 
when the transfer shouldve completed, given that start date. It wouldnt be appropriate to 
only consider the last part of the process. If we did only consider that part of the process, 
redress would put Mrs C into a position she could never have been in. So Im satisfied that 
Standard Life acted fairly when they rejected Mrs Cs request to only consider the delay they 
caused from 17 or 18 February 2020 and 6 March 2020 in their redress calculation.
Ill now consider whether the benchmark Standard Life based their redress calculation on was fair. Standard Life said, in their final response letter, that they would base their redress 
on the actual investments which had been made with provider A. They felt this represented a 
reasonable approach. 
Mrs C doesnt consider that its fair to base the redress on the investments she actually 
made. She thinks it would be fairer to instead use the investments she wouldve made if 
thered been no delay to her transfer. She said that financial markets were very different 
after the first reaction to coronavirus. And therefore the investments she actually made had 
been made under a fundamentally different market. 
Mrs C provided information from her IFA after shed told him about the proposed redress 
basis. He said Mrs C had been forced to change her investment plans because of the delays 
Standard Life had caused. He said that the whole point of a structured product was to 
provide protection against a market fall. And that Mrs C wouldnt have invested in the actual 
fund shed invested in if that transfer had proceeded as expected. Mrs C also told this 
service that their adviser hadnt recommended a specific structured product at the point of 
the advice in June 2019, as hed said that the choice would be based on availability at the 
time. But said that her husband had in fact invested in a structured product following the 
completion of his pension transfer that she wouldve also invested in if possible. She said her 
IFA wouldnt have recommended the products she actually invested in in March 2020 back 
in October 2019. Mrs Cs IFA also stated that if Standard Life had completed the transfer on 
time she couldve invested in a structured deposit when available. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and what both parties have told this service. I 
acknowledge that Mrs C intended to invest part of the pension transfer in a structured fund. 
But that it hadnt been possible for her IFA to recommend a specific product at the time of 
the advice due to their intermittent availability. I can see that Standard Life have offered to 
consider evidence of alternative investment instructions given between November 2019 and 
March 2020 if provider A could provide it. But from what I understand, it hasnt been possible 
to provide such evidence. Although I understand why Mrs C wasnt given a specific 
recommendation for the structured fund, without any evidence of investment instructions I 
cant fairly say that she wouldve definitively invested in the same structured fund as her 
husband did, had her transfer not been delayed. Therefore I consider that Standard Life 
acted reasonably when they based the redress calculation on the actual investments Mrs C 
made.
Ill now look at when Mrs Cs transfer shouldve completed.
When should the transfer have completed?
Standard Life said the transfer value date wouldve been 16 November 2019 if theyd caused 
no delays. This led to them asking provider A to carry out a redress calculation based on Mrs 
Cs transfer value being received by them on 26 November 2019. 
While Mrs C disagrees with this method of redress calculation, she said that if this approach 
is the one I consider fair, she felt the correct date to use for the transfer value date would be 
8 November 2019. So Ive gone on to consider if Standard Life have used a fair date for their 
redress calculation. 
In their initial response to the complaint, Standard Life said the initial instruction for a part 
cash and in-specie transfer was received and reviewed on 15 August 2019. They said 
provider A then told them on 6 September 2019 that they couldnt accept one of Mrs Cs in-
specie transfers. They said they questioned this on 19 September 2019, but were told that 
provider A was awaiting further instruction. They said they sent a follow-up email on 25 
October 2019 asking why there was a problem. And that provider A confirmed the same day that theyd made a mistake and that the fund could be accepted.
Standard Life said they didnt revisit Mrs Cs case until 21 November 2019. They said the in-
specie transfer of assets completed on 4 December 2019. But due to a further fund 
suspension affecting one of Mrs Cs funds the sale of remaining assets couldnt proceed. 
They said they didnt revisit the case again until 15 January 2020. At this point they sent a 
request to provider A to ask them to accept the suspended fund on an in-specie basis. They 
said this was accepted on 22 January 2020, and the transfer completed on 29 January 2020. 
Standard Life said a further delay meant that the instruction to sell remaining the assets 
didnt take place until 27 February 2020. And that the transfer was finally completed on 6 
March 2020.
Standard Life acknowledged that there was an excessive delay in progressing the case after 
receiving acceptance of the suspended fund on 25 October 2019. They said that if theyd 
caused no delays after that, Mrs Cs funds couldve been sold down on 16 November 2019. 
They said this wouldve avoided all issues with the suspended fund and the delays which 
followed on from that. 
I asked Standard Life to provide a detailed breakdown of how theyd concluded that 16 
November 2019 was the appropriate date to use. And of how theyd reached 26 November 
2019 as the date Mrs Cs transfer value wouldve been received by provider A. 
Standard Life said that 25 October 2019 was the date available to them to proceed with the 
transfer, as it was the date when provider A confirmed their acceptance of the suspended 
fund. So they considered that a reasonable timeframe for the in-specie transfer of this 
process to complete would be ten working days. They said this took them to 8 November 
2019. They said they would then allow five working days to pick up the case and instruct the 
sell down of all remaining funds. This would take them to 15 November 2019. They said that 
although theyd used 16 November 2019 as the transfer value date, this was a Saturday, so 
the transfer value would be based on the 15 November 2019. 
Standard Life said that it usually takes five working days to complete all sell down, and that 
cases are pended for this amount of time and are then re-visited to arrange payment. This 
would take them to Friday 22 November 2019. They said they had then allowed a further two 
working days for the case to be picked up and the payment to be arranged to provider A. 
This would allow for the transfer value to have been received on 26 November 2019.
Mrs C told this service that she felt the correct date for the transfer to have completed was 8 
November 2019, not the 16 November 2019 Standard Life had proposed. 
From what Ive seen, I consider that the proposed redress date Standard Life have 
calculated is fair and reasonable, and based on the actual process they normally follow. I 
acknowledge that Mrs C feels the process shouldve concluded slightly earlier than Standard 
Lifes assessment. But I consider that its likely Mrs Cs assessment didnt take the further 
required stages of the process into account. Overall, while I acknowledge that it isnt 
possible to state with certainty exactly when the transfer shouldve completed, I consider that 
26 November 2019 is a fair and reasonable date to use for the redress calculations.  
Ill now consider the distress and inconvenience compensation Standard Life have offered 
Mrs C. 
Distress and inconvenience
Standard Life have offered Mrs C £200 in respect of the trouble and upset that their poor 
handling of her transfer had caused her. They said this not only related to the delay in progressing matters, but also the poor communication which accompanied those 
transactions. 
Mrs C said shed experienced extensive frustration and distress due to her considerable and 
repeated effort to resolve her complaint with Standard Life. She said shed suffered the 
extensive consequences of Standard Lifes poor service for over six months before this 
services involvement. And for much longer after this service had become involved. She also 
said that Standard Life had yet to pay the compensation theyd offered her. Mrs Cs IFA also 
told this service that based on the conversations he had with Mrs C, the complaint process 
had been very frustrating and stressful for her. He said that the stress was compounded by 
having to watch the value of her investments fall despite having raised an Executive 
complaint with Standard Life which included a repeated request to sell the assets and 
complete the transfer as soon as possible.
Ive carefully considered what went wrong and the impact it had on Mrs C. While I 
acknowledge that Standard Life have caused frustration and stress, I can also see that 
Standard Life have taken steps to put things right. Theyve apologised for their errors. And 
offered compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience. I understand Mrs C has 
accepted a further £100 of compensation offered in respect of the higher fees she had to pay 
while the delay was ongoing. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Standard Life took reasonable steps to put things 
right. So I wont be asking them to increase their compensation offer. However, I note that 
Mrs C has told this service that Standard Life have yet to pay the compensation they offered. 
If this is still the case, I would ask them to arrange for payment as soon as possible.
Overall, I consider that although Standard Life caused delays to Mrs Cs pension transfer, 
theyve taken reasonable steps to put things right. So I dont uphold this complaint and I 
wont be asking them to take any additional actions. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman