DRN-1649895
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about what happened when he tried to cancel a standing order with Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI).
What happened
Mr M told us he had set up a standing order for a monthly payment of £230. He cancelled 
the payment on 1 August. But it was still made on 2 August. Mr M said he talked to BoI 
about this, but it had no proposals to help him. And the recipient wouldnt give the money 
back. He wanted BoI to pay back the money hed lost.
Mr M said BoI told him he hadnt cancelled his standing order, hed only deleted the 
beneficiary profile. Mr M said he didnt know what that meant. He couldnt understand why 
BoI wouldnt just explain in ordinary English. He thought BoI had just made a mistake by 
letting this payment go through. And if that was wrong, and there was something else he 
ought to have done to stop the payment, then he said that it would be BoIs fault, because 
there was nothing on its website that told him that. 
BoI said Mr M had deleted what it calls the beneficiary profile. This is a list of bank details 
held for people that Mr M sometimes makes one-off payments to. That list is just there so 
each time Mr M wants to pay the same recipient, he doesnt have to input bank details all 
over again. 
This isnt the same as a standing order, which is requested once, then paid regularly from Mr 
Ms account until he asks the bank to stop. BoI said the standing order for £230 wasnt 
cancelled until Mr M complained.
BoI sent us the guidance that it publishes on its website, showing how standing orders can 
be cancelled. And it sent us its internal screens showing activity on Mr Ms account, so we 
could see this wasnt what he had done.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that BoI had shown 
that what Mr M did on 1 August was to delete this recipient from a list of people and 
businesses that he can select from when he wants to make one-off payments. He didnt 
cancel the standing order. So our investigator didnt think it was BoIs fault the payment was 
made on 2 August. 
Mr M said that our decision was unreasonable and unfair. He thought it was negligent for BoI 
not to tell him that deleting a beneficiary profile wouldnt cancel a standing order. He said BoI 
had a duty to bring this to the attention of its customers. He said the bank had failed to 
provide any suitable guidance. Mr M wanted his complaint to be considered an ombudsman, 
so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
BoI has shown us that Mr M didnt cancel the standing order for £230 on 1 August. So I dont 
think BoI made a mistake when it paid that standing order. 
Mr M said that BoI had let him down by not telling him how to cancel a standing order. But 
BoI publishes help on its website, which includes a guide to how to cancel a standing order. 
Ive seen that guidance, and Im satisfied that this was available to Mr M. I dont think that 
BoI is under a duty to proactively draw this to Mr Ms attention, or to flag up when he cancels 
a beneficiary profile, that this wont also cancel a standing order. 
I understand that this has been frustrating for Mr M, particularly as the recipient of the money 
wont just give it back. But I dont think that BoI has been negligent in this case. I know Mr M 
will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman