DRN-3590260
The complaint
Miss T complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 5 July 2022, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give both 
sides an opportunity to provide further information in advance of my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What happened
In April 2021, Miss T responded to a text message that appeared to come from a well-
known online retailer. The text message asked her to confirm her account details, which 
she did.
The following day someone attempted to use Miss Ts card. Shortly afterwards she 
received a call from someone pretending to be from Monzo. A text message which also 
appeared to come from Monzo followed a couple of minutes later. The caller advised her 
that her Monzo account was at risk and asked whether she had any other accounts linked 
to it. Miss T said she had an account with another bank, which Ill call N. She then 
received a text message and a call, apparently both from N.
Miss T says she was told shed need to move all of her money from her account at N to 
her Monzo account in order to keep it safe. After she moved £6,142.28 from her accounts 
at N to Monzo, she received another call, this time seemingly from Monzo again.
Miss T says that the caller advised her theyd need to upgrade her Monzo account. 
They kept her on hold for around 30-40 minutes before the call was cut off and, when it 
finished, Miss T was unable to log in to her account.
It is undisputed that during the last call a transaction of £6,001.04 debited Miss Ts 
account. Miss T denies having made this transaction but when she reported the matter to 
Monzo, it concluded, based on its electronic records, that she must have carried it out. 
So, it declined her claim for reimbursement. It did, however, manage to recover 
£3,009.90 from the recipient account, which was returned to Miss T.
Miss T referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. They 
thought that Miss T had consented to the payment from her Monzo account but the 
transaction was so out of character and unusual for her that Monzo ought to have 
questioned it before it was
allowed to leave her account. Had they done so, the investigator concluded, the loss 
would have been prevented.
Monzo disagreed. It said it had to base its decision on Miss Ts account of events and 
that was that she hadnt carried out the transaction in dispute. It was satisfied that wasnt 
the case. In any event, it didnt agree that it should have intervened to prevent the 
transactions as its systems had acted as expected.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017, as well as the terms of Miss Ts account, 
mean that, in the first instance, she is presumed liable for transactions which she has 
authorised. Here, there is a dispute about whether the transaction which debited Miss 
Ts account was authorised by her, so thats the first question Ive considered.
Did Miss T authorise the payment which debited her Monzo account?
The evidence Ive seen satisfies me that the payment was made from Miss Ts device. 
That is the device that she has used extensively prior to the fraud. There is no identifiable 
difference in the activity surrounding the payment in dispute and previous undisputed 
activity. As Im satisfied that the transaction was made from Miss Ts device (which was in 
her possession at the time), there are only two plausible explanations of how this 
transaction could have taken place. The first, and most straightforward, is that Miss T 
made the payment herself. The second is that someone in control of her device made it. 
Ive considered the latter possibility but Miss T makes no mention in her account of events 
of anyone else having control of her device and she specifically denies that she was 
asked to download any software on to her device that might allow a third party to control it. 
Therefore, I have to conclude that its more likely than not Miss T made the payment.
In addition, considering that the fraudster initially advised Miss T that her Monzo 
account was insecure, it seems more consistent with what they claimed to be 
happening that they would ask her to move her money from that account to another, 
safer, account.
However, the fact that I think the most likely version of events here is not entirely 
consistent with what Miss T has told us is not fatal to her claim for reimbursement. Ill 
explain why.
Should Monzo refund Miss T for any other reason?
Its first important to say that Im satisfied, despite the inconsistencies highlighted above, 
that Miss T was the victim of a scam. Shes provided documentary evidence to show the 
calls and text messages she received which are largely consistent with her account of 
events.
Monzo doesnt appear to have ever suggested Miss T wasnt the victim of a scam either. 
Its clear from its notes that it believes she was. The only part of her claim which it doubts 
is her denial of the authorisation of the final transaction.
Monzo is not a signatory to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. But it has 
agreed to act in accordance with it. So, Ive considered Miss Ts claim in line with the CRM 
Code.
Because Monzo hasnt considered the complaint under the CRM Code, it hasnt provided any reasons why Miss Ts claim shouldnt succeed. If it wishes to do this, it 
should do so in advance of my final decision.
Ive considered whether Miss T met her Requisite Level of Care under the Code. As 
Monzo hasnt provided any evidence of warnings Miss T might have seen while making 
the payment, I cannot consider whether she ignored an Effective Warning (one of the 
exceptions to reimbursement under the Code).
Ive gone onto consider whether Miss T had a reasonable basis for belief in making the 
payment. In doing so, Ive thought about what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened and Ive considered all of the circumstances leading up to the final 
transaction.
The first point to note is that Miss T says she responded to a fraudulent text message in 
the days prior to the scam and she disclosed her debit card information. This explains 
how someone was able to attempt to use her card earlier on the day of the scam, 
following which Miss T blocked her card.
So, it doesnt appear to have come as a particular surprise when Miss T received a phone 
call from someone pretending to be Monzo. This was received on a number which hadnt 
been impersonated or spoofed to appear like it was coming from Monzo. However, 
moments later a text followed, which did appear to come from a genuine Monzo number. 
Its a little unclear why the text followed rather than preceded the call. Nonetheless, I think 
a text message which appeared to come from Monzo wouldve been quite persuasive, 
particularly given that Miss T believed that her account was at risk. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Miss T to believe that the contact she received was a reaction to, rather 
than a continuation of, the fraud.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Miss T to believe that Monzo and her 
other bank were in some way linked. I note that the caller said that theyd check with N 
that her account was secure and what followed was a text message which again 
appeared to come from a phone number genuinely associated with N.
The text message from N followed by the call, would, I think, have been quite 
convincing evidence that the two banks were communicating and her account at N 
was at risk.
Miss T spoke at length with the caller claiming to be from N. They said her money wasnt 
safe at N, only at Monzo. This strikes me as an odd claim  given that shed initially been 
contacted because of concerns about the security of her Monzo account. However, Ive 
already concluded that I think Miss T did make the final transaction from her Monzo 
account. So, I think its actually more likely than not that she was advised to move all of 
her money from N, to her Monzo account and onto a new safe account.
The first payment from Miss Ts account at N to her account at Monzo was made within 
ten minutes of the call being received. But the second payment took quite a lot longer. I 
understand Miss T had a limit on the amount she could transfer from her account at N and 
this could only be removed with a card reader (which Miss T did not possess). Evidence 
that Miss T has supplied from N shows that the payment was made via the telephone 
(presumably as a way round this limit). I think it would have been quite persuasive for 
Miss T that the caller was (eventually) able to make this payment on her behalf despite 
the limits on her account (even if she had disclosed security information to them).
Just minutes after the second payment was made Miss T received another call from the 
same person whod called earlier claiming to be from Monzo. The number wasnt spoofed,
but Miss T was expecting the call, so I dont think it unreasonable for her not to 
have challenged the caller at this point.
The disputed payment took place 12 minutes later, but the call lasted 54 minutes. Miss T 
says that during this time the caller claimed to be securing her account and setting up a 
new one. Im not sure what happened during this call, but I do think that Miss T made the 
payment from her account in the belief that she was protecting her money. I suspect the 
caller held her on the line to give the recipient more time to spend the funds from their 
account.
Overall, though I think this is a fairly finely balanced case, Im persuaded that Miss T did 
have a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of the payments was genuine. In 
particular I think the way the fraudsters were able to seemingly demonstrate that her 
account was at risk by attempting to use her card and were able to impersonate some of 
the genuine contact numbers of both Monzo and N would have been convincing for her, 
despite the unusual nature of some of the requests the fraudsters made.
I also think that Monzo, taking into account its obligations to protect its customers from 
financial harm from fraud, ought to have considered the payment that Miss T made to 
have been suspicious. It cleared the entire balance of her account and she hadnt made 
any similar payments in the previous six months. Had it questioned her about the 
payment then, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it seems likely that Monzo 
would have been able to quickly identify that Miss T was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud and prevented the loss.
The money in question came from Miss Ts ISA account at N, so interest should be paid 
at the same rate she would have achieved had the money remained where it was. 
Interest should be paid from the date of the payment to the date of settlement. I ask 
Miss T to provide evidence of that interest rate in advance of my final decision.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss T:
-The amount lost, minus the funds that have already been recovered - £2,991.14
-Simple interest per annum at the rate Miss T would have achieved had the 
money remained in her ISA at N
Other than to provide evidence of the interest rate applicable to her ISA account, Miss 
T provided no further submissions.
Monzo, in its response, again said that the complaint should be considered based on 
what Miss T told them had happened. And, as she said that she didnt carry out the 
transaction in dispute, the CRM Code was not relevant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have little to add to my provisional decision. I agree with Monzo that the CRM Code only 
covers transactions authorised by the customer. In this case Ive concluded, as Monzo did, 
that Miss T authorised the transaction in dispute. It follows that the CRM Code is (subject to other requirements) relevant to the transaction. Miss Ts testimony (or, more precisely, one 
part of Miss Ts testimony), is just one piece of evidence available. 
Ive made my decision based on all of the evidence available. Monzos submissions have not 
changed my mind about what is more likely to have taken place and, as it has provided no 
submissions in relation to Miss Ts liability under the CRM Code, my final decision remains 
essentially unchanged from my provisional decision. 
In relation to interest, Miss T has provided evidence that the current interest rate on her ISA 
account is 1%. Shes also provided statements from immediately after the disputed 
transaction. Those statements suggest a rate a little lower than 1%. However, for simplicitys 
sake and taking into account the fact the rate is likely to have changed over time, as well as 
what I think is fair in the circumstances of this case, I think 1% simple per annum is a 
reasonable award of interest. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss T:
- The amount lost, minus the funds that have already been recovered - £2,991.14
- 1% simple interest per annum from the date of the disputed payment to the 
date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman