DRN-3859834
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd (PTFS) told them at the 
point they were sold their life assurance policy in 2005 that it was a life-long policy with a 
maturity value, only to recently receive correspondence stating that the policy ends in 2030.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
All the documentation available to me from the time Mr and Mrs A met with PTFS 
shows that a protection policy with a term of 25 years was discussed.
The fact-find completed by the adviser confirms that Mr and Mrs A were taking out a 
25-year mortgage, and that a protection policy of 25 years was required. The 
available illustration states that the policy matched the full amount of the mortgage 
(£128,000) and its term  25 years.
The Demands and Needs letter dated 17 May 2005 confirms Mr and Mrs A were 
provided with the illustration and key features documentation. It also states the 
recommendation made was for a policy with a term of 25 years, with no surrender or 
maturity value. Im satisfied that this was a suitable recommendation in the 
circumstances.
I understand Mr and Mrs A requested a copy of the signed application, which PTFS 
have been unable to provide. They feel very strongly that this is evidence something 
went wrong at the point of sale.
 
Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that this indicates that the 
policy taken out differed to the one discussed throughout the entire process. Its quite 
common for full documentation to not be available after 18 years since policy 
inception.
If Mr and Mrs A feel they signed for a completely different policy, I wouldve expected 
to have seen some trace of documentation or recorded discussions about a whole-of-
life policy. Instead, all the available evidence from the time of sale suggests the 
opposite.
As the evidence available to me shows that a policy of 25 years was discussed and 
recommended, Im not persuaded that PTFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
this instance. I cant conclude that it informed Mr and Mrs A that the policy was life-
long or had any surrender value as all available documentation sent at the time 
states otherwise.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman