DRN-3777525
The complaint
Mr B complains about inaccurate information communicated to insurance brokers by 
Compare the Market Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr B says that when his car insurance was coming up to its annual renewal date, Compare 
The Market Limited (CTM) sent an unsolicited email with offers from a number of providers.
Mr B contacted one of those providers  an insurance broker. However, when he provided 
further information, the insurer increased the required premium and so Mr B decided not to 
go ahead with the purchase.
The broker charged Mr B a £75 cancellation fee. Mr B wasnt happy with this given that the 
premium had been increased compared to the original offer forwarded by CTM.
Mr B has made separate complaints about the broker and the insurer. Im not going to 
comment on those complaints here because I can only consider the complaint about CTM.
Mr B also complained to CTM. He said theyd used inaccurate information to generate the 
quotes contained in the email theyd sent him. And that led him to enter into discussions with 
the broker and effectively cost him the £75 cancellation fee. 
CTM didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They pointed out that the information theyd used to 
generate the offers sent to Mr B were based on information Mr B had himself provided the 
previous year.
Mr B then brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think CTM 
had done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I say, Mr B has made separate complaints about the broker and the insurer. I cant 
comment on those complaints here, except to say that CTM arent responsible for setting the 
brokers cancellation fee or for the insurers decision to increase the premium when they 
received further (and accurate) information from the broker.
The simple question for me, in making this decision, is whether CTM did anything wrong 
when they used the information they held to generate the offers sent to Mr B.
Mr B says CTM held inaccurate information about him  or, more precisely, used inaccurate 
information about him to generate the offers they forwarded to him. He says they had the 
wrong date for when he purchased his car. And wrong information about how long hed been 
driving.
CTM have shown us that they used the information Mr B had himself given them the 
previous year to generate those offers for the following years insurance. Its difficult, in those 
circumstances, to conclude that its CTMs fault if the broker in this case received information 
that later proved to be inaccurate. 
CTM have also provided evidence to demonstrate that they prompt users to check if all their 
information is correct before the offers are revealed to them. 
And CTM also point out to customers on their website that some providers will ask additional 
questions and that may affect the premium thats being offered.
In short, CTM take the information the customer provides and generate offers from different 
providers, based on that information. Theres no pretence that theyre providing a final or 
binding quote or offer. And its clear that their communications are effectively an invitation to 
the customer to contact provider(s) if they want to shop around for their insurance.
CTM cant reasonably be held responsible for anything the broker or insurer does in their 
dealings with the customer. And as I say, Mr B has made separate complaints about both 
the broker and the insurer in this case.
In summary, I cant conclude that CTM have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr B in forwarding to him offers he might be interested in, on the basis of 
information Mr B had himself earlier provided to CTM.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman