DRN-3643020
The complaint
Miss J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
On 19 December 2020, Miss J sold a mobile phone on an online marketplace for £720. She 
provided the buyer with proof of the item being dispatched. The buyer told Miss J that they 
had sent payment to her, but it would be on hold until the phone had been safely received. 
The buyer then told Miss J that she needed to send the same amount of money for the funds 
to be released to her. On 28 December 2020, Miss J made a £720 card payment to a money 
remittance service. 
Miss J explains that she made two further card payments, one for £560 on 30 December 
2020 and one for £300 on 2 January 2021. Miss J explains she was told the funds would be 
released back to her within two hours, but they were not. 
Miss J reported the situation to the bank on 4 January 2021. NatWest declined her scam 
claim. It said it was not plausible that Miss J would need to make extra payments to receive 
payment from the sale. 
The fraudsters remained in contact with Miss J. On 23 January 2021 and 1 February 2021 
Miss J made a further two card payments to a different money remittance service for 
£300.99 each. Miss J says she sent this money because she believed the requests had 
come from the buyers bank. She was told that the payments were tax and commission in 
relation to the sale. Miss J explains the scam was uncovered when the buyer said they were 
fighting with the bank to release the funds for her, which did not feel right. 
NatWest considered the claim again but continued to decline it. The bank didnt understand 
why Miss J had made further payments after reporting the initial fraud. Miss J made a 
complaint. She explained that she had been struggling to pay essential household bills 
without this money and had ended up in hospital due to the stress of the situation. 
NatWest issued its final response in February 2022. It said it would not be able to reimburse 
the loss. Miss J referred the complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into the situation but did not recommend that it should be upheld. He 
concluded that Miss J had authorised the payments in dispute and hadnt explained why she 
felt she needed to send these funds. 
He thought it would have been difficult for NatWest to suspect that scam payments were 
being made because of how spread out the payments were and how similar they appeared 
to Miss Js other spending. He didnt think that a chargeback would have been successful, 
and he could see no other reason why the bank should be responsible for refunding the 
disputed card payments. 
Miss J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. She said she had been 
unfairly misled by an individual posing to be someone they were not and has lost a lot of 
money as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Miss J has been the victim of a scam. She has ended up without the 
phone and substantially out of pocket. This is a lot of money for anyone to lose so I can 
understand why Miss J wants to do all that she can to try and get it back. 
When an account holder raises concerns about transactions made using their card, Id 
expect the bank to look into the situation to see whether it has any responsibility for 
refunding the transactions in dispute. It may need to provide a refund if its customer didnt 
authorise the transactions, or if it didnt intervene in the payments to check they were ones 
its customer wanted to make when it ought fairly to have done so. In some circumstances, a 
card issuer can ask for a transaction its customer made to be refunded through the 
chargeback process.
The first thing to think about is whether Miss J authorised the payments in dispute. Whether 
a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account holders will 
usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks will be 
liable for unauthorised payments. If Miss J made the disputed card transactions herself, or 
agreed that they could be made, the starting point is that it would not be fair to ask NatWest 
to refund them.
In this case, theres no debate that Miss J made the payments. Her position is that she was 
tricked into making them. Even though Miss J was deceived, the transactions can still be 
regarded as being authorised by the bank because she gave her consent to them. This 
means Miss J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Having concluded that the card payments in dispute were authorised, Ive gone on to think 
about whether NatWest has any obligation to refund them for any other reason.
NatWest is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions 
of the customers account. But there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel 
used, where a bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
Ive thought about whether NatWest ought to have identified that Miss J was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud and intervened before allowing these card payments to go through. 
But Im not persuaded the transactions were so unusual and out of character that NatWest 
should have suspected Miss J was potentially at risk of falling victim to a scam. There are many millions of card payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect a payment services provider to check each one. Theres a balance to 
be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then 
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate 
payments. Looking at all of the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest 
not to have intervened to query these payments. The payments would have appeared 
unremarkable to the bank. Miss J often made card payments and the amounts that she was 
spending in each transaction were not vastly different to the amounts that she typically 
spends. In addition, the transactions were spaced out and did not take place in quick 
succession. Overall, I dont think the transactions would have stood out as being particularly 
out of character for Miss J. 
This means that I cant fairly say that NatWest should have done more to challenge the 
payments Miss J was making at the time to find out more about them. I dont think the wider 
circumstances of the payments ought to have stood out enough at the time for me to fairly 
say that NatWest should have identified that Miss J was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
I can only compel NatWest to refund money if I think it is responsible for the loss incurred. 
But as I dont think NatWest should have done anything more in light of the information 
available to it at the relevant time, I cant hold the bank responsible and direct it to return the 
money that was sent.
Ive gone on to think about whether NatWest should have attempted a chargeback. 
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means is that
NatWest can in certain circumstances ask for a payment made using a card to be refunded. 
But as the payments were to a genuine business which carried out the service of transferring 
money, there would have been no grounds for NatWest to try and challenge the payments 
through the chargeback scheme. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback and it isnt guaranteed to result 
in a refund. I dont think it was unfair of NatWest to not try and pursue the matter further 
through the card scheme. Ultimately there needs to be a right to a chargeback under the 
card scheme rules and I cant fairly expect NatWest to initiate the process where there would 
not be a realistic chance of it being successful.
For the reasons Ive explained above, there is no legal basis for NatWest to reimburse the 
funds. But it remains good practice for NatWest to investigate what has happened and to 
consider whether it would be appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by 
case basis, especially in situations where it is clear that its customer has been caused 
considerable detriment as a result of what has happened. Miss J has told us that the scam 
has impacted her tremendously, both physically and mentally. NatWest is aware of Miss Js 
circumstances and has considered the difficult situation she is facing but concluded not to do 
anything further in this particular case. I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides in a 
complaint. I cannot fairly compel NatWest to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes 
and good practice do not say that it should.
Im sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss J. I know this wasnt the answer she was 
hoping for. But as NatWest did not make any errors by processing the payments when it did 
and there are unfortunately no recovery options available in these circumstances, I cannot 
fairly and reasonably say NatWest has any responsibility for refunding this loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman