DRN-3306294
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Covea Insurance plc handled a claim under his personal 
accident policy.
What happened
Mr D held a personal accident policy underwritten by Covea Insurance plc. Mr D was the 
sole policyholder.
In 2017, Mr D was involved in an accident at work. Initially his injuries were considered 
relatively minor  a whiplash injury - but over time his condition worsened. He hasnt been 
able to return to work since.
He submitted a claim to Covea citing several conditions which he said resulted from the 
accident. The conditions noted on his claim form included permanent total disablement, 
quadriplegia, paraplegia, some loss of sight, some loss of hearing and permanent total loss 
or severance of several limbs. 
Covea considered the claim. It decided Mr D didnt meet the policy definition for permanent 
total disablement. It did however accept that Mr D had suffered some partial loss of the use 
of his legs due to problems with his back. It made a proportionate settlement under the 
policys benefits for partial loss of use of two limbs.
Mr D believes Covea hasnt considered his claim correctly. He wants Covea to accept hes 
suffered permanent total disablement.
Our Investigator looked into things and thought Covea had acted reasonably when it 
considered Mr Ds claim. Our Investigator wasnt satisfied Mr D had met the policy definition 
of permanent total disablement but agreed the proportionate settlement made by Covea was 
fair.
Mr D remains unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the obligations placed on Covea by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive also considered the conditions and benefits of Mr Ds personal accident insurance cover.  
The policy terms are important as they form the basis of the contract between the two 
parties.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr D has faced since his accident; its clear hes been 
through a very difficult time. A lot of medical information has been provided but I wont 
comment on the background in detail here but will instead focus on what I consider to be key 
to my decision.
Permanent total disablement
Im satisfied, based on the evidence provided to me, Coveas decision to decline Mr Ds 
claim for permanent total disablement is reasonable.
The definition of permanent total disablement in Mr Ds policy says:
Disablement (other than loss of sight, loss of speech, loss of hearing, loss of limb or 
loss of joint, thumbs, fingers or toes) which will entirely prevent you from engaging in 
any occupation of any and every type and description, for the remainder of your life 
without hope of recovery
Covea considered the opinions of multiple medical experts whod examined Mr D, including 
a Consultant Orthopaedic and Spinal Surgeon, a Consultant Neurologist, a Consultant 
Psychiatrist, and the opinion of an Occupational Health Specialist. None of the experts 
suggested Mr D would be unable to work in any occupation for the remainder of his life.
In the most recent report Ive seen, the Consultant Orthopaedic and Spinal Surgeon was of 
the opinion Mr D would probably be able to return to work on a full-time basis doing 
sedentary or light manual work. 
In the most recent opinion of the Occupational Health Specialist, he also did not believe Mr 
D should be considered permanently totally disabled. In his report he says, I entirely agree 
that he should not be considered PTD as there is no reason to believe this relatively young 
man will be unable to work ever again in any occupation.
I appreciate Mr D hasnt been able to return to work so far, but the information Ive seen 
suggests that with on-going treatment his health is expected to improve.
Therefore, the medical evidence to date doesnt satisfy the policy terms for a successful 
claim under this aspect of his cover.
Proportionate benefit for permanent loss of limb or limbs
Again, Im satisfied Covea has considered this aspect of Mr Ds claim fairly.
Mr Ds policy includes benefit for loss of limb or limbs, and this is defined as:
Loss of Limb or Limbs:
Permanent total loss by accidental physical severance at or above the wrist or ankle 
or the permanent total and irrecoverable loss of any use of an entire arm, hand, leg 
or foot.
In the opinion of the same Occupational Health Specialist, Mr D has suffered some loss of 
use of his legs due to the problems with his back, but the expert suggests the loss, 
recognising that Mr D has previous degenerative spinal disease, amounts to no more than 
20% of the benefit available within the policy. 
The policy terms allow Covea to take account of existing health problems when considering 
payment of benefits. Within the Special Provisions it says:When we assess payment for any of the benefits or payment for any other 
permanent accidental injury, we will take into account any existing disablement and 
make a proportionate reduction in the amount of benefit on the basis of a medical 
assessment.
Covea has acted in line with the degree of loss of use as assessed by a medical expert so 
Im satisfied the settlement its made is in line with the policy terms and the expert evidence 
available.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Covea Insurance 
plc to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman