DRN-4291826
Complaint
B, a limited company, complains that ClearBank Limited (trading as Tide) didnt reimburse it 
after it fell victim to a scam. B is represented by its director, Miss R and so Ill generally refer 
to Miss R in the text of this decision.
Background
In November 2021, B fell victim to a scam. B is a beauty salon operated by Miss R. 
However, the scam in question involved B operating as an intermediary between a 
wholesaler of haircare products and an end customer in another part of the UK. She agreed 
to purchase a large volume of goods from a supplier shed made contact with on social 
media. She separately arranged a contract with a purchaser of those same goods. When 
placing her order with the supplier, she asked that the goods be delivered directly to the 
address of the purchaser. She transferred £30,000 from Bs account with Tide to the 
supplier.
The goods were sold on the basis that no payment would be due until theyd been inspected 
and the purchaser was satisfied with their quality. The purchaser of the goods in this case 
told Miss R that they were satisfied with the quality of goods supplied and, as a 
consequence, she paid the cost of the goods to the supplier. It now appears that no goods 
were ever sent. The email sent to Miss R telling her otherwise was part of the scam and 
designed to persuade her to part with her money.
On 19 November 2021, Miss R messaged Tide to say that shed been scammed. She said 
that she wasnt sure exactly what the situation was but that it was suspicious because shed 
never met the supplier or the customer. She asked Tide whether she should report what had 
happened to the police.  An employee of Tide responded and said theyd investigate what 
had happened. They also told Miss R that she was free to report the incident to Action 
Fraud. Around twenty minutes later, she messaged again and withdrew her previous 
allegation. She said that shed checked everything with her supplier and was happy it wasnt 
a scam. Miss R went on to set up an ongoing arrangement under which monthly shipments 
of this haircare product would be sent to the customer by the supplier. She paid for the 
services of a solicitor to draw up two contracts to cover the agreements shed made with 
each. 
Once she realised that shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Tide via her 
representatives. Tide didnt agree to refund the loss. It said that it had processed the 
payment B had asked it to make, which it was expected to do under the relevant legislation. 
It also said that B shouldve carried out greater due diligence before agreeing to make the 
payment. 
Miss R wasnt happy with that response and so the complaint was referred to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that, while Tide 
ought to have intervened and questioned the payment, she wasnt persuaded it wouldve 
been able to uncover or prevent the scam. Miss R disagreed with the Investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Its accepted that B 
authorised this payment and so it is presumed liable at first instance. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that Tide be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the 
risk identified.
The Investigator concluded that this payment was sufficiently large and out of character that 
Tide ought to have made enquiries before processing it. I agree with that conclusion  it was 
significantly larger than other payments made from the same account and was being made 
to a new payee. Tide shouldve paused the payment and spoken to Miss R about it before 
deciding whether or not to process it.
However, I cant ask it to refund the payment unless I can reasonably conclude that its error 
was the cause of the loss. I have to take into account the law on this point. That means I 
need to be able to affirmatively answer the following question  would the damage or loss 
which B has complained about have occurred but for the failings of Tide? In other words, is 
there sufficiently strong evidence to show that its more likely than not that, but for the 
failing on the part of Tide, the relevant loss would not have occurred? If the loss would have 
occurred in any event, the conduct of the business is not a but for cause.
To reach a conclusion on this point, I need to consider what would have happened if Tide 
had handled things differently. It ought to have contacted Miss R and asked her about the 
payment. It should also have given her general guidance about the prevalence and risk of 
fraud and scams. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that any intervention by Tide wouldve 
prevented the scam from taking place. Miss R had her suspicions about the arrangement but 
an interaction with the supplier put her mind at rest. If Tide had blocked the £30,000 
payment and spoken to Miss R, it would at best have led to her making those enquiries and 
obtained reassurance sooner than she did. Its noteworthy that she was sufficiently 
reassured that she made another payment to the supplier from an account she holds with a 
different bank.
Shed also have been able to explain that her agreement with the supplier meant that no 
payment was due until the goods had been received, inspected and found to be of 
satisfactory quality. Thats atypical in a scam of this kind. Of course, that reassurance was of 
no practical value given that the ultimate recipient of the goods appears to have been in on 
the scam. But I wouldnt expect the conversation between Miss R and Tide to be of such 
depth that it would lead to uncovering that. I dont think that would be a realistic expectation 
in a brief telephone conversation. 
I accept that Miss R found the supplier on social media and that the typical goods not 
received scam is common on the particular platform she used. But I dont think this looked 
like a typical version of those scams. And while I would expect an employee of Tide to tell 
her that she should take extra care when dealing with this contact because she found them 
on social media, I dont think that alone would be enough for it to say that this was most 
likely a scam. I think it could only have encouraged her to carry out further checks which, for 
the reasons Ive already explained, would merely have persuaded her that the arrangement 
was a legitimate one. For completeness, Ive also looked at whether Tide did everything it needed to do once it 
became aware that B had fallen victim to a scam. I can see that it promptly made contact 
with the receiving bank but that no funds remained. Unfortunately, due to the way the scam 
played out, Miss R notified Tide several months after the scam had taken place and so it 
was highly unlikely any funds would be recovered. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman