DRN-1161968
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about One Sure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with the renewal of his commercial motor insurance policy.  
 What happened
Mr W looked to renew his insurance through his broker (One Insurance) as usual in May 
2019. His premium increased by a few hundred pound which he presumed was because of a 
claim by his wife. After his policy was set up, he received a seven-day cancellation letter 
from his insurer as One Sure hadnt sent his no claims discount (NCD) over. 
Mr W was very worried about this but One Sure managed to send all the details over and the 
policy continued. However, it went onto increase the premium further because of the way Mr 
Ws NCD had been calculated, his NCD had been reduced. Mr W spoke to his broker about 
this and it was agreed that it would only charge Mr W half the increase in premium. But Mr W 
felt he had no choice but to accept this as he needed insurance in place and complained to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought that One 
Sure didnt deal with the renewal of his policy very well and that it should pay Mr W £100 for 
the inconvenience caused.
As One Sure didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
It isnt disputed that Mr Ws renewal didnt go as smoothly as it should have done. So the 
only thing to consider is whether One Sure should pay Mr W £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and I think it should.
Mr W was sent a letter saying his policy would be cancelled. This was because One Sure 
hadnt sent his NCD to his insurer when it shouldve done. And I accept that this would have 
been inconvenient and caused trouble to Mr W which I think it is fair to compensate him for.
Additionally, I think the delay in sending the NCD meant that Mr W lost the opportunity to 
shop around for a more competitive price. I say this as had the NCD been sent over when 
the policy commenced, and all the details verified, then Mr W wouldve been made aware of 
the correct premium much earlier. And so he couldve chosen to shop around in the cooling-off period and certainly without the threat of cancellation hanging over him. 
I know that One Sure agreed to pay half of the additional premium (just over a £100) but I 
dont think that fully compensates Mr W for the inconvenience, trouble and ability to get as 
competitive a price as he wouldve wanted. So, I think a further £100 compensation feels fair 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require One Sure 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman