DRN-4315925
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy from a break-in. 
Accredited use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to 
Accredited includes these agents.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M had a home insurance policy with Accredited, taken out in September 2020 
through a comparison website. In March 2023 Mr M and Mrs Ms property was broken into. 
The intruder smashed a single double-glazed window to gain entry. The interior handle was 
closed, but not locked, so the burglar was able to open the window. Mr  M and Mrs M 
thought it wouldnt have been visible to the burglar from the outside whether the handle was 
locked or not. The burglar stole jewellery estimated to be worth several thousand pounds.
Mr M and Mrs M contacted Accredited to tell them about the break-in and lodge a claim. 
Accredited considered the claim and an assessor visited the property, taking photographs, 
including the broken window. However, Accredited declined the claim on the grounds that 
the interior window handle hadnt been locked from the inside (a security requirement under 
the policy). 
Mr M and Mrs M challenged Accrediteds decline, saying theyd spoken to the owner of a 
local window firm, who told them even if the handle had been locked, it would have taken a 
very small amount of force to break it and climb through the window. And even had this not 
happened, the burglar could simply have cleared the broken glass from the window frame 
and climbed through.
Unhappy at the decline of their claim, they complained to Accredited. They maintained the 
window, although the handle wasnt locked, was closed and should be considered secured 
shut. They thought the policy should cover their loss as it occurred through forced and 
violent entry and no attempt had been made to force the window frame  which they thought 
rendered moot the issue of the handle not being locked. And the requirement for windows to 
be locked wasnt given sufficient prominence in the policy documents. They also referred to 
previous decisions of this service where complaints were upheld where access was gained 
through cases of break-ins with smashed windows, undamaged frames and handles in a 
shut position (but unlocked). They thought these cases provided a precedent where the 
claims in such cases should be accepted.
Accredited didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they referred to the policy 
documentation Mr M and Mrs M would have been provided with when they took out the 
policy and at the subsequent renewals. Accredited referred to policy wording on About 
Safety and Security and a question about whether externally accessible windows were 
secured with key operated locks  to which Mr M and Mrs M had answered yes. Accredited 
then referred to the definition of accessible being windows within easy reach of the ground 
without use of a ladder. As the smashed window was on the ground floor, Accredited said it 
was accessible. While the policy covered loss and theft through forced or violent entry, 
there was a policy endorsement where security requirements werent met, including locks 
declared in their insurance application were put into full and effective use. The endorsement 
said loss or damage from theft would not be paid unless the requirement was met.
Accredited also noted only the glass on the lower section of the window was smashed, 
enough for the burglar to reach in and release the handle. As the smashed pane wouldnt 
(on its own) have enabled access, the failure to lock the handle was material to the loss. 
Based on their assessment, Accredited confirmed their decline of the claim.
Mr M and Mrs M then complained to this service. They felt it unfair for Accredited to decline 
the claim based on a yes/no to the question of whether the window was locked on the 
inside. If so, the condition should have been much clearer in the policy documents (not 
within the small print). Theyd lost some £4,500 of valuables from the burglary and been 
traumatised by what had happened. This had been made worse by their dealings with 
Accredited. They wanted Accredited to accept their claim and pay it in full. They also wanted 
compensation for the distress theyd suffered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Accredited hadnt acted fairly in applying 
the endorsement requiring windows to be locked.  He thought the endorsement applied as 
Mr M and Mrs M had indicated they had window locks. However, he didnt think the 
endorsement (and the windows being unlocked) made a difference to whether the theft 
happened or not. Given the circumstances (from the video footage) he thought the theft 
would still have occurred, even had the window been locked (the intruder would have been 
likely to have smashed the remainder of the pane to gain entry, even if they hadnt forced the 
lock had it been in place). Had the window been locked, it was likely the intruder would have 
taken longer to gain entry, but not prevented them gaining access. 
As the investigator didnt think the failure to lock the window made a difference to whether 
the theft would have happened, it was unreasonable Accredited applied the endorsement to 
decline the claim. To put things right, Accredited should reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. The investigator also thought the endorsement wasnt 
sufficiently clear in the policy documentation (and didnt specifically mention window locks). 
Accredited disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They didnt think it was possible to conclude what the intruder would or would not 
have done had the window been locked. The endorsement should have been complied with 
and Mr M and Mrs M had accepted it under the terms of the policy theyd taken out. As they 
hadnt adhered to the requirement under the endorsement (to keep the window locked) they 
hadnt complied with the terms and conditions of the policy and so the claim could not be 
accepted. Accredited also provided a copy of a view from an investigator in respect of a 
complaint to this service where the endorsement has been made clear to the policyholder, 
where the investigators view was that the claim had been fairly declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Mr M and Mrs M have said about the distress theyve 
suffered from the break-in. A break-in is inherently stressful and unsettling, particularly (as 
seems to be the case here) Mr M and Mrs M may have disturbed the intruder on their return 
home at the time of the break-in, which appears to have been captured on video at their 
property. However, my role here is to decide whether Accredited have acted fairly towards 
Mr M and Mrs M.The key issue in the complaint is whether Accredited acted fairly in declining Mrs M and Mr 
Ms claim. In declining the claim, Accredited cited the endorsement in the policy requiring 
windows to be locked (from the inside) Mr M and Mrs M say the break-in would have 
occurred even had the windows been locked. They also say the endorsement wasnt made 
clear in the policy documents. Accredited say the endorsement was made clear in the policy 
terms and conditions, and Mr M and Mrs M indicated they had locking windows when they 
took out the policy. So, it was fair to apply it to decline the claim.
Given Accredited declined the claim based on the endorsement, Ive looked at the wording. 
The full wording (page 4 of the policy schedule) is as follows:
Endorsement(s) that apply to this policy
Please read the following endorsements(s) carefully and in conjunction with your 
policy wording
Theft and malicious damage excluded if security requirement not met
When:
1. There is nobody in your home; or
2. The residents have gone to bed for the night in the main building;
You must:
a. Remove keys from all locks and keep them out of sight or reach of a potential 
intruder; and
b. Ensure that the locks declared in your insurance application are put into full 
and effective use/
We will not pay for loss or damage caused by any theft, attempted theftor 
malicious actsunless you meet both requirements (a) and (b).
Given the policy wording on About Safety and Security and the question about whether 
externally accessible windows were secured with key operated locks  to which Mr M and 
Mrs M had answered yes, then the endorsement would be relevant.
Whats not in dispute is that there was a break-in, which involved forced and violent entry, 
given the window glass was smashed. And that the intruder gained entry through the broken 
window and took property (jewellery). Given this, the onus is on Accredited to show it was 
reasonable for them to apply the endorsement to decline the claim. In considering this issue, 
Ive looked carefully at the circumstances of the case. 
Its not disputed the window was closed, with the interior handle also in the closed position. 
Mr M and Mrs M accept the handle wasnt locked with the key (though theres no indication 
the key was left in the handle or visible (accessible). That the intruder smashed the glass of 
the window indicates their intention to enter the property. Having smashed the glass, lifting 
the handle would have made access easier. But access had already been gained from 
smashing the glass. And being closed, without the key left in the handle, the intruder 
wouldnt have known the handle was unlocked until they smashed the glass and tried the 
handle. But even had the handle been locked, I think its likely the intruder would have forced 
it open  and Ive noted what Mr M and Mrs M have said they were told by a local window 
firm about it taking a small amount of force to overcome it. Or the intruder could have forced 
the frame or smashed the remainder of the glass to gain entry. On this latter point, Ive also noted a statement from the local police that the intruder was 
subsequently apprehended, and they believe burgled other properties, one of which entry 
was gained by smashing completely a window to gain entry. Ive no reason to doubt the view 
of the police, so taking this together with the other points above, Ive concluded the intruder 
would still have likely gained entry even had the handle been locked. So, the handle being 
unlocked wouldnt have been likely to have prevented the break-in (and theft) occurring.
While my role is to consider the specific circumstances of this case and come to a 
conclusion, Ive also looked at the example decisions issued by this service referred to by Mr 
M and Mrs M in their complaint to Accredited. While they contain some similarities, the 
specific circumstances do differ. One is about an unlocked porch door, while another refers 
to patio doors where the keys were left in the lock. The example investigator view also 
involves a case where keys were left in a patio door. As theres no indication the keys were 
left in the handle of the window smashed in the break-in at Mr M and Mrs Ms property, then 
I dont think these decisions are directly relevant to my consideration of this complaint.
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Accredited havent acted reasonably in 
applying the endorsement to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the other issue in Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint (and in Accrediteds response to our investigators view) about whether the 
endorsement was made sufficiently clear to them when they took out the policy (and at the 
subsequent renewals in 2021 and 2022).
Looking at the policy documents, the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) refers 
to the policy wording and schedule providing details of exclusions or any endorsements that 
may apply. But it doesnt provide any more detail, or the location of the exclusions and 
endorsements (the relevant endorsement is on page 4 (of 4) of the policy schedule, following 
other details of the policy. The same schedule was issued at policy renewal in 2021 and 
2022. While the endorsement is on the final page of the schedule, the schedule is short, so 
Ive concluded Mr M and Mrs M should reasonably have been aware of it.
However, taking this conclusion together with my earlier conclusion about it not being fair 
and reasonable for Accredited to apply the endorsement in the specific circumstances of this 
case, this doesnt change my overall conclusion Accredited havent acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what Accredited should do to put things 
right. As I dont think theyve acted fairly in applying the endorsement, they should reassess 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. I 
require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to:
Reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman