DRN-3978327
The complaint
Mr H complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited handled pre-authorisation for treatment 
under his private health insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held a private health insurance policy with BUPA, provided by his employer. The policy 
ended on 31 December 2022.
Mr H called BUPA on 27 July 2022 as hed been referred to dialectical behavioural therapy 
(DBT). BUPA authorised 20 sessions, but also explained that treatment that took place after 
the policy ended wouldnt be covered even if it had been pre-authorised.
Mr H called BUPA again on 15 August 2022 to check if he was covered for DBT group 
sessions. BUPA said it would need a report from a therapist to assess this. Following this, 
Mr H emailed his therapist to say he wanted to start with the individual sessions BUPA had 
authorised, but shed need to provide a report confirming the need for group therapy.
Mr Hs therapist explained that she didnt accept referrals for individual therapy, and the 
programme Mr H had signed up for was for group therapy. She confirmed she could provide 
a report but there would be a fee for this. Mr H wasnt willing to pay for this himself.
Mr Hs therapist confirmed on 15 September 2022 that BUPA had agreed to cover the cost 
of an individual session and the report before he was due to start group therapy on 
19 September 2022. Mr H asked BUPA to confirm if this was correct, as hed been given 
conflicting information and he wouldnt want to go ahead if BUPA wasnt covering the costs. 
BUPA responded to say that there was an issue with how much the therapist was charging 
for the sessions. But once this was clarified to be lower for the group sessions, BUPA said 
there shouldnt be any issues if the therapist provided the requested report.
Mr H wasnt happy with all the confusion BUPA had caused, and the impact this had had on 
his mental health. On 6 October 2022, BUPA offered Mr H £250 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and confirmed that individual DBT sessions would be 
covered. These were Mr Hs preference; he said he hadnt got on with the group session.
Mr H doesnt think BUPAs offer is enough, and he wants BUPA to still pay for the full 
treatment programme even though his policy has now ended.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He agreed that BUPA hadnt been 
as clear as it couldve been. But overall, he thought the offer it had made was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And he didnt think BUPA had to pay for any treatment 
after the policy had ended, as this had been made clear to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. He raised further points to say that BUPA 
had discriminated against him, and it hadnt made reasonable adjustments due to his mental 
health conditions. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I wrote to BUPA saying that I didnt think its offer fairly compensated Mr H for the impact its 
actions had caused, taking into account his mental health. I also thought BUPA shouldve 
reasonably known from the outset that DBT would include group sessions, so I didnt think it 
was reasonable for it to delay authorising these specifically. BUPA agreed with my 
recommendation to increase the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
from £250 to a total of £400. Mr H agreed as well. So, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think BUPA treated Mr H fairly or reasonably in how it handled the pre-authorisation 
for DBT. Its my understanding that DBT normally includes group sessions, and I think this is 
something I wouldve reasonably expected BUPA to know. So, I dont think BUPA acted 
fairly or reasonably when it asked Mr H for a report for the need for group therapy when it 
had already pre-authorised DBT. And I think this is fundamentally the reason for all the 
delays and confusion.
I dont think BUPAs offer of £250 is fair in the circumstances. I dont think this takes into 
account the impact on Mr H specifically due to his mental health conditions. I think the 
confusion and delays wouldve had a greater impact on Mr H than another policyholder in a 
similar situation. So, I think BUPA should increase its offer to a total of £400.
That said, I am satisfied the policy terms are clear that BUPA doesnt pay for any treatment, 
even if its pre-authorised, that takes place after the policy ends. And Im satisfied this was 
made clear to Mr H, and he was aware of it. Because of this, I dont think I could fairly ask 
BUPA to pay for any treatment for Mr H now that his policy has ended.
Additionally, I understand Mr H did attend the first group session but decided he would prefer 
to continue only with the individual sessions. But I also note that Mr Hs therapist didnt 
accept individual referrals for DBT, and she didnt recommend individual DBT without group 
sessions. 
In any event, I can see that BUPA did clearly explain on 6 October 2022 that there was 
cover in place for individual DBT. I cant see that Mr H took steps to continue with the 
therapy after this. I know Mr H was concerned about starting therapy without being able to 
finish it. But I dont think this means I could now fairly ask BUPA to pay for any future 
treatment after the policy has ended.
When considering whether BUPA acted fairly and reasonably, Ive taken into account Mr Hs 
comments about the Equality Act 2010. Our service doesnt have the power to determine 
whether there has been a breach of the Act  only a court can do that. But I am required, 
amongst other things, to take into account relevant law when considering whats fair and 
reasonable. And Ive done that here.
Ive explained above where I think BUPA ought reasonably to have done more and what it 
should do to put things right, and why its decision to not extend cover beyond the policy end 
date is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Putting things right
BUPA should pay Mr H a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused (inclusive 
of the £250 already offered).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I direct BUPA Insurance Limited to 
put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman