DRN-3506493
The complaint
Mr M complains Amtrust Europe Limited hasnt treated him fairly, after he made a claim on 
his sofa warranty policy.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr M bought a three-seater sofa and a two-seater sofa that matched. He 
also took out a sofa warranty policy. The policy provides cover for accidental damage.
In July 2020, Mr M made a claim for stains on both sofas. The stains had been caused by 
various incidents. Amtrusts technician treated and removed the stains. 
In June 2021, Mr M told Amtrust the areas treated on the three-seater sofa had since turned 
pink. In October 2021, Amtrusts technician reported new parts were required for the pink 
stained areas. In December 2021, Amtrust sent an offer letter with two options:
- Option 1: A mandate for £1,723.50, to spend at the retailer where the sofas were 
bought. This is the original purchase price of the three-seater sofa (£1,199), plus 
50% of the original purchase price of the two-seater sofa (£524.50). 
- Option 2: £861.75 cash. This is based on the anticipated cost of providing the 
mandate.
Amtrust has confirmed that if option 1 is chosen, it would also cover the cost of delivering the 
replacement sofas.
Mr M was unhappy with the settlement options, so he referred a complaint to our service. 
Hes noted the cost to replace the two sofas with the equivalent models is £2,900. So, for 
option 1, he would have to contribute £1,176.50. Mr M considers that to be unfair as the 
pink staining was caused by Amtrusts technician. 
Mr M also says he was originally told the replacement parts werent available, but Amtrust 
was to look into that further. He says, after a couple of weeks of waiting to hear back, he 
made a complaint; and a couple of weeks later he chased again, but he was told 
replacement parts arent available and the sofa wasnt considered repairable.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she thought the two options offered 
were fair. Mr M remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is Amtrust responsible for the pink staining?
The three-seater sofa was already stained before Amtrusts attempted stain removal caused 
the pink stains. I acknowledge the sofa is now in a less desirable condition, but Ive not seen 
anything that suggests Amtrusts attempted stain removal was inappropriate. So, I cant 
reasonably decide Amtrust is responsible for the condition of the sofa.
What is Amtrust liable for under the policy terms?
In my view, the policy terms could be worded more clearly. But nevertheless, having 
considered the terms in their entirety, Im satisfied the following applies:
- During the period of cover, the maximum Amtrust will pay out for a damaged item, in 
total, is its original purchase price (the policy limit). 
- When a satisfactory clean or repair isnt possible, the damaged item will be replaced. 
However, the policyholder will need to cover the difference between the remaining 
policy limit and the replacement cost.
- If Amtrust has incurred repair costs for the item on a previous claim, or in its attempt 
to repair the item on an existing claim, those repair costs will be deducted from the 
policy limit, leaving only the remaining policy limit to go towards the replacement.
Should Amtrust attempt a repair?
Ive seen that, in November 2021, the manufacturer confirmed with Amtrust the replacement 
parts are available. Amtrust noted it would cost £310 for parts and labour. 
Ive also seen that, after Amtrust sent its offer letter to Mr M in December 2021, Mrs M spoke 
to Amtrust in January and February 2022 about the options. Amtrusts call notes explain that 
Mrs M expressed a preference for repair, rather than them having to contribute towards the 
replacement sofas. The notes explain that Mrs M was told she can choose an attempted 
repair, but if shes unhappy with the result, the cost of the attempted repair would be 
deducted from settlement options 1 and 2. Mrs M subsequently made a complaint.
Amtrust contacted Mr and Mrs M in March 2022. The call notes explain that Amtrust advised 
them its now only prepared to proceed with options 1 or 2, as the repair process may have 
issues.
Amtrust has clarified with our service that whilst replacement parts are available, they would 
be taken from a new batch of material, so a colour match would almost certainly not be 
possible. 
So, Amtrust doesnt consider a satisfactory repair can be achieved. As per the policy terms 
Ive explained above, in that scenario, the damaged item is to be replaced. As such, I dont 
consider Amtrust is acting outside the policy terms by not offering a repair. 
I accept Amtrust could have been clearer in its communications about the repair option, but 
I also dont consider its acting unfairly by deciding not to offer a repair. I say this because, 
its considered unlikely to achieve a satisfactory result and it would reduce the amounts 
payable under options 1 and 2. Are the amounts offered under options 1 and 2 fair?
As per the policy terms Ive explained above, Amtrust is only responsible for the damaged 
item, i.e. the three-seater sofa. If its not repairing the damaged item, it needs to contribute 
towards its replacement, up to the unused policy limit. Amtrust hasnt deducted the initial 
clean, that led to the pink staining, from the policy limit. So, it remains £1,199 (i.e. the 
original purchase price).
Under option 1, Amtrust is offering a mandate so the three-seater sofa can be replaced. The 
value of the mandate, in respect of the three-seater sofa, is £1,199. Therefore, it follows that 
Amtrusts offer is in-line with the policy terms.
In addition, Amtrust has increased the mandate value by £524.50 (i.e. 50% of the original 
purchase price of the two-seater sofa). In other words, Amtrust is also contributing to the 
undamaged matching sofa. That offer is in-line with our approach to claims involving 
matching items, where theres no cover for the undamaged item.
Amtrust has also offered a cash settlement, as an alternative to the mandate, based on how 
much the mandate will cost Amtrust. Again, thats in-line with our approach. 
So, in conclusion, I consider settlement options 1 and 2 to be in-line with the policy terms, 
and to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, and Mrs M, but for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman