DRN-2718567
The complaint
 Mr T is seeking to recover £13,205.20 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, a payment he made from 
his bank account as a result of a third-party scam in May 2019.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mr T unwittingly authorised the payment 
 and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money 
from the payee bank.
 
What happened
 I issued my provisional decision on 12 March 2021 explaining why I was thinking of the 
same outcome as the investigator but explained my reasoning in more detail and proposed 
HSBC put things right in a slightly different way.
Mr T has confirmed he had nothing further to add. HSBC said 
Whilst it knew the payment was for a holiday, its more likely than not that the 
customer would have advised to proceed given that the documents  emails, 
contracts - looked professional and genuine.
It is not unusual for payment to be made to different countries as agencies often act 
as an intermediator for rentals across the globe.
Its not reasonable to expect front line representative to be experts in holiday 
reservations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have considered HSBCs response to my provisional decision. I havent said that front line 
staff should be experts in holiday reservations, but the bank has more experience of what 
scams of this nature look and feel like than Mr T does. I think it could have told Mr T about 
potential holiday scams and that some websites are cloned.
I accept that it might not be unusual for a payment to be made to different countries. This is 
not what the complaint turns on. The type of transfer was more unusual  both Mr T and the 
first agent hadnt heard of it before and it was the reason for Mr Ts call to the bank. I think 
there was more of an opportunity for discussion here and staff could also point out that most 
scammers will try and persuade customers pay by bank transfer like this. 
Whilst the paperwork appeared genuine, scams like these are well known to banks. The 
bank staff should have helped Mr T to reflect on whether it was legitimate or not. Mr T was 
paying for a holiday in full, so I think he would have checked further and called the holiday 
company as he did when he later discovered from a friend that this might be scam.
Having considered what HSBC has said, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all 
the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint. For completeness, I have set this out 
below.
It is not in dispute that Mr T authorised the scam payment of £13,205.20. He was duped by 
the scammers into instructing his bank to transfer that sum to their fake account. Mr T 
believed he was paying rental for a holiday villa he found through what he thought was a 
genuine website. Mr T searched the company on the internet and found nothing of 
concern. Mr T initially made an enquiry online via the website and received a reply the next 
day by email. Several emails were exchanged. During the process Mr T was sent a rental 
agreement. Despite what HSBC says, the payment was made to the same company on 
the invoice.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr T was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although 
he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr T is presumed liable for
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware that HSBC considers too high a standard has been applied to what is 
expected of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of 
financial harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I 
am mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances 
of this complaint are different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us 
to take account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow legal duties 
considered in that and other court cases.
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare applies to this case, however the broad 
legal position that a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises is 
not absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and good industry practice at the time) is an example of that.
I also accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And it doesnt automatically follow that HSBC is liable for a loss, just because a customer is a 
victim of fraud.
With this in mind, Ive thought about whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr T when it processed the payment for £13,205.20. Having done so, I 
think the bank should have done more to question Mr Ts payment request before it was 
processed.
Looking at Mr Ts bank statements, there had been no comparable legitimate payments in 
recent times. In my view, the £13,205.20 was unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr T and 
the account, particularly as it was being sent as an international payment to a new payee. 
The scammer had requested the money be transferred by SEPA - Single Euro Payments 
Area (used when making cross-border European bank transfers). Mr T had called the 
bank as he had never made a transfer of this nature before. He made it clear what the 
purpose of the transfer was - so the agents knew it was for a holiday. The first agent also 
acknowledged that she hadnt heard of the payee bank before or the type of transfer 
(SEPA) Mr T was being asked to make by the fraudster.
The bank ought to have made at least some basic enquiries before putting the payment as 
Mr T called the bank to seek further assistance in the first instance. HSBC should have 
established that Mr T was not at risk of financial harm. I accept the bank doesnt have the 
means to verify if the holiday company, website or villa were genuine, but it has more 
experience of what scams of this nature look and feel like than Mr T does. I think it could 
have told Mr T about potential holiday scams and that some websites are cloned and point 
out that most scammers will try and persuade customers pay by bank transfer like this. 
Scams like these are well known to banks. The bank staff should have helped Mr T to 
reflect on whether it was legitimate or not.
HSBC says its intervention would not have made a difference. But Im satisfied, the bank 
already knew the payment was for a holiday. With this in mind, I think the bank could, 
relatively easily, have identified and warned Mr T of the possibility he was being 
scammed. The payment was being made by SEPA  a type of bank transfer - and Mr T 
had been offered an incentive for paying the balance in full. This was something that a 
more experienced eye should think was potentially not quite right. I think providing further 
information about the hallmarks of this type of scam would have been enough to cause 
him sufficient concern. This was a large sum of money and Mr T was paying for a holiday 
in full, so I think he would have checked further and called the holiday company as he did 
when he later discovered from a friend that this might be scam. As there was no response 
to his call, it seems probable that Mr T would have become suspicious and then 
incredulous about the scam in time and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud would 
have failed; and Mr T would not have lost £13,205.20.
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from 
the payee banks before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have made no difference because the scammers 
had already withdrawn all the money before Mr T had called the bank to raise his 
concerns.
I have also considered whether Mr T should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what 
he was doing or the consequences of his actions. Mr T has told us he searched the 
company on line and found nothing of concern. He exchanged several emails with the company with website links and company headed invoice. Ive also seen some of the 
correspondence he had with the scammer and can see why he didnt suspect he was 
being scammed. The emails and application document are professional looking. Overall, I 
think this was a very sophisticated and believable scam, I am satisfied there was no 
contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr T was simply the unwitting victim of a clever 
fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr T was a layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr T for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate him for 
being deprived of the money he lost.
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC should pay Mr T compensation for distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs actions, rather than the impact of the crime 
itself. HSBCs failure to sufficiently act has had an impact on Mr T, not least because he 
has been facing the very real possibility that he would not get his money back. As Ive 
explained, HSBC had an opportunity to prevent the scam and the loss. For these reasons, 
Im satisfied that HSBC should also pay Mr T £250 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Putting things right
 In order to put things right for Mr T, HSBC should
Pay Mr T £13,205.20; plus
Pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the date of loss to the date of refund1.
Pay Mr T £250 for distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is I uphold 
this complaint. HSBC UK Bank PLC should put things right for Mr T as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr T a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.