DRN-2605542
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has unfairly refused to reduce the interest rate 
on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr H says he received Persistent Debt letters from Capital One. He says he asked it to 
reduce the interest rate on the account as it had been suspended, and the risk lowered. Mr 
H says Capital One refused to reduce the interest rate which he says is unfair and he 
questions the rules about Persistent Debt as they favour the lenders. He accepts he could 
afford the proposed monthly repayments.
Capital One says Mr H agreed to the account terms and conditions about the interest rates. 
It says it has to follow the rules about Persistent Debt and so hasnt made a mistake or acted 
unfairly.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and was 
obliged to follow its rules on this issue. The investigator also thought Mr H had confirmed he 
could afford the proposed repayment.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he appreciates why the new rules were brought in, 
but says there is nothing to prevent a lender reducing its interest rates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and how strongly he feels about this 
issue.
Im satisfied that Mr H agreed to the account terms and conditions when he first opened the 
account. Im also satisfied that its up to Capital One to set the account interest rates and not 
something I can fairly interfere in.
There is no real dispute here that the FCA brought in new rules about Persistent Debt and 
that Capital One is obliged to follow those rules. I can see that Mr H appreciates why the 
rules were brought in. So, I dont think Capital One made a mistake by writing to Mr H and 
taking the action it did. I accept that is not the main issue here, and Im satisfied its not my 
role to comment on those rules or decide if they favour one party over another.
I make clear to Mr H that we are not the regulator and so we cant order Capital One or any 
other business to reduce its interest rates in these circumstances. I appreciate why Mr H 
says his risk is now lower due to the suspension of his account. But I dont think that matters 
as Capital One is not obliged to reduce the interest rates that were agreed to in the terms 
and conditions.
Overall, Im satisfied Capital One has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasnt made a 
mistake. I appreciate that Mr H is unlikely to accept my decision and I think this decision 
brings an end to what we, in trying to resolve this dispute informally, can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman