DRN-3606447
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
It isnt in dispute that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms using his Santander debit card (where his funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from those platforms). The 
payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided 
by Santander, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as 
reasonably possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.  
Mr S is disputing two payments for (approximately) £650 and £550 respectively  so 
just under £1,200 in total. I dont consider these payments to have appeared 
particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ss spending history, 
such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might 
have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. For example, hed made a genuine 
payment of £750 around one month beforehand  so more than the disputed 
payments. And while the payments were made to a cryptocurrency exchange, who 
Mr S hadnt paid previously, it appears that company was operating legitimately. So I 
dont think the payment destination would reasonably have given Santander concern 
that Mr S might by the victim of a scam. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have 
triggered Santanders monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the 
process of being scammed. I therefore consider it reasonable that Santander simply 
processed the payments in line with Mr Ss authorised instructions. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the 
funds after Mr S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a 
debit card can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a 
chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card providers such as Visa and 
Mastercard. That process is subject to the rules of the scheme and we wouldnt 
expect a bank to pursue matters to final arbitration if there was no prospect of 
success. 
Mr S used his debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to 
make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the service 
would be considered provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do 
not think Santander have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim 
for Mr S.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S  who has clearly fallen victim to a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. What Im deciding is whether its fair to hold Santander liable for his 
loss. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it is  as I havent found that any failings by 
Santander caused or contributed to Mr Ss loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman