DRN-2333992
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) failed to notify him of a change of business policy. He says this resulted in 
increased interest charges being applied to a loan. He wants to be allowed an additional 
period to repay the loan without interest being applied.
What happened
Mr B tells us that he took out a loan with BPF in November 2019. He said that he was 
assured that the loan could be repaid through his credit card. And that if he repaid the full 
loan amount of £1,800 within nine months, he wouldnt be charged interest. Mr B says that 
when he attempted to repay the loan using his credit card this was declined. And he later 
learned that BPF no longer accepted this method of repayment. As a consequence, he says 
he now faces having to pay over £800 in interest charges.
BPF said that from 1 June 2019 it had taken a commercial decision not to accept 
repayments made through credit cards. It accepted it shouldve informed Mr B of the change 
of policy. It said that it had paid £25 in recognition of this failure. And had extended the date 
by which the loan could be repaid, without interest, by three months.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt BPF was 
entitled to take a commercial decision to change its policy regarding methods of repayment. 
And that by extending the interest free period by three months it had returned Mr B to the 
same position as if hed been notified earlier of the change in policy. In addition, as BPF had 
paid £25 to Mr B he thought it had done enough to resolve the complaint in a fair and 
reasonable manner.
Mr B didnt agree and felt the view of the investigator hadnt taken his concerns into account. 
As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the 
final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B would be upset to find that his preferred method of repaying his loan 
was no longer available. And that it wouldve put him to some inconvenience in seeking an 
alternative method of repaying the loan within the interest free period.
The basic facts of the complaint arent in dispute. And as BPF acknowledged it shouldve 
told Mr B about the change in its policy, the only issue I need to determine is if BPF has 
done enough to ensure a fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint.
In plain terms, Mr B had to repay the capital sum he borrowed within nine months if he was 
to avoid interest charges on the fixed sum loan finance agreement. And if the loan wasnt 
fully repaid in that time it reverted to a loan repayable over the next 36 months. With interest 
charges of £854.64 added to the £1,800 capital sum. 
But the effect of using his credit card to repay the loan would simply have been that Mr B 
wouldve been liable to pay interest on his credit card loan rather than the fixed sum loan 
agreement.
I accept that repayment of the capital sum by credit card wouldve been a simple process  
Ive seen information to show that Mr B had the necessary credit facility available. So being 
denied the chance to use that method would undoubtedly have resulted in some disruption 
to Mr Bs intended actions.
What I dont accept is that it caused Mr B to not be able to repay the loan within the three 
months extension which BPF permitted.
As it was Mr Bs intention to repay the loan by using his credit card facility, Im not sure why 
it was that he was unable to arrange an alternative source of credit when he found he 
couldnt directly use his credit card. Or, if he made any attempt to enquire about such 
alternative sources.
But I consider that three months was an adequate time for Mr B to make enquiries and any 
necessary applications in order to find what the most suitable alternative product was.
Mr B has said that if he had known at the time of taking out the loan that he wasnt able to 
repay it by credit card he wouldnt have proceeded. But the reality is that things change, and 
businesses adopt different policies. And at the commencement of the loan there is nothing of 
which Im aware to show that BPF was about to make such a change.
Its reasonable that where something material such as the available mode of repayment is 
changed that a customer should be made aware of that change. And given the opportunity to 
make alternative arrangements. Whilst it would have been preferable for this to be done well 
in advance of the interest free loan period expiring, I consider that BPF has restored Mr B to 
at least the same position as if that had occurred.
Mr B has suggested BPF shouldve given him an additional six months period to make the 
repayment. But I cant see that he was any more likely to find an alternative means of 
repayment after six months than wouldve been available in the three months extension 
period offered.
In summary, I find that BPF by paying £25 to Mr B and extending the interest free period on 
his loan by three months has acted fairly and reasonably. And that it neednt do anything 
more. Accordingly, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance need take no 
further action in the resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Stephen RossOmbudsman