DRN-1972363
The complaint
Miss G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited refused to let her reject 
a faulty car.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss G acquired a second-hand car costing £18,400 funded by a deposit of 
£187.29 and the balance by hire purchase agreement. Shortly after acquisition Miss G 
noticed a vibration and took the car back to the dealer. After several visits the dealer 
identified the problem and repaired the brakes. Miss G was given a courtesy car, but her 
parking permit didnt cover a different car so she incurred fines.
In February 2020 the car was damaged in an accident and was taken for repair. The garage 
told her that it had been due a MOT in September 2019. The car passed its MOT, but Miss 
G says it cost her some £400. She also says the MOT carried serval advisories. 
Miss G complained to VFS and it offered her a goodwill payment of £260 which was 
equivalent to one months payment. She was unhappy with this response and brought her 
complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said that wear and tear was to be expected with a three-year-
old car and the brakes had been repaired albeit after several visits. Miss G had been kept 
mobile and he couldnt hold VFS responsible for her parking fines. 
He noted the car had passed its MOT and had seen no evidence to show that it had any 
significant problems. Nor did he think VFS was responsible for reminding Miss G that the car 
would be due an MOT shortly after she had bought it.
Miss G didnt agree and said it had taken the dealer too long to repair the brakes and she 
was concerned about the advisories on the MOT. She said she had tried to return the car but 
had been told she would lose her deposit. She had been depressed by the whole matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is regrettable that Miss G is disappointed with her car, but I do not consider I can uphold 
her complaint. I will explain why.
Miss Gs car was some three years old and it is to be expected that there will be wear and 
tear issues arising as the car ages. The one fault she encountered was with the brakes and 
these have been repaired. As such that doesnt allow me to recommend the car be rejected. 
It may have taken several visits to the dealer, but it did solve the problem and the car has 
been well used by Miss G. 
It is not unusual for a three year old car to have advisories, but it passed so at the point of 
sale it would appear that it was in satisfactory condition, apart from the brakes. I have not 
seen details of the advisories, but I have no reason to believe there were any major issues. If 
there were the car wouldnt have passed the test. 
Miss G was unaware that the car was due a MOT once it was three years old. I cannot see 
how VFS can be held responsible for telling her about her responsibilities. It might have 
been helpful of the dealer to have mentioned it, but it may be that he presumed Miss G 
would be aware of her legal obligations. That said it wasnt a matter for VFS. Nor does it 
have responsibly for her parking fines.
VFS has made a fair offer and I dont consider it need do more.
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited has already made an offer to pay £260 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay £260.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman