DRN-1352714
 
The complaint
Miss M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1998.
What happened
Miss M took out a PPI policy to protect her credit card payments in the event of disability or 
unemployment. It also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt consider that the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss M didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case. 
Having done so, I dont believe the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss M says she didnt know PPI had been added. I cant say for sure what happened but 
Ive taken into account what shes said, together with the paperwork thats still available. 
That includes a copy of Miss Ms signed postal credit card application form. I note that, under 
the section headed Payment Protection Plan, shes ticked in the relevant place to indicate 
she wanted PPI. 
From what Ive seen, I think Lloyds made it clear to Miss M that it was offering optional PPI 
and that she chose to take it out. 
The parties agree that Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M. I think thats probably 
right given it seems the sale took place by post and without, as far as I can tell, any direct 
contact with a Lloyds adviser. 
That said, Lloyds still ought to have provided Miss M with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that she could decide for herself if it was suitable. I cant say for 
sure whether Lloyds did that. But, from what I know of Miss Ms circumstances, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it. I say that because:
It seems Miss M would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe shed 
have decided against taking the PPI because of its exclusions and restrictions. She 
says she was self-employed but the policy didnt treat her less favourably than 
someone who was employed as a result.
Miss M wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick pay or redundancy pay but she suggests 
she could rely on her partner to keep up with her card repayments if she wasnt 
working. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim and the benefits were guaranteed. Overall, I think Miss M would have considered the PPI provided 
her with useful protection. 
Theres nothing to suggest Miss M couldnt afford the PPI. And it was flexible enough 
that Miss M could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if she decided it was 
no longer suitable for her.
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M. But 
Lloyds has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss  
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in 
this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Lloyds should also pay back to Miss M 
any extra interest she paid because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss M the difference 
between what Miss M owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Miss M 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman