DRN-3341555
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt do more to help him after he fell victim 
to a scam and lost £1,326.25 as a result. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length 
here. In summary: 
Mr M was looking to lease a vehicle. 
Hed been following a company on a social media platform for several months and 
made contact via the social media page about a car he was interested in leasing.
All contact with the company and individual were made via the social media page.
Mr M says he checked the social media page hadnt been newly set up and hed 
checked the company website. He also checked the company on Companies House 
to make sure the company existed. He said after doing so, all appeared to check out.  
Within the messages between Mr M and the individual at the company, Mr M 
enquired about the car he wished to lease on a three-month term. He was sent a link 
to an application form which Mr M confirmed hed completed.                       
Following this, Mr M made a payment £1,326.25 on 8 February 2021, which was 
made up of £946.89 (3 months deposit) and the first months payment of £315.63 
plus an administration fee of £63.73. The payment was made to the details provided 
to him  which was for a personal account. Mr Ms said the personal account didnt 
cross his mind at the time  that he was sending the payment to the individual he 
was communicating with and who was arranging the leasing of the car.  
Within the communication, Mr M was told that once the payment was made the 
paperwork would be finalised. 
Following the payment, Mr M checked with the individual at the company and was 
told the payment hadnt arrived in the account. He was told in order to process the 
hire application further and deliver the car, Mr M would need to send the payment 
again. 
Mr M contacted Monzo about the payment and reverted to the company to let it know 
the payment had been sent. After the individual at the company maintained the 
payment would need to be sent again, Mr M became worried hed been scammed 
and informed Monzo of this the same day. 
Monzo didnt agree to refund Mr M, as it felt that he hadnt taken enough steps to check who 
he was paying and what for.  
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It says Mr M made the payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing he was dealing with a legitimate car hire company and that the payment 
was for genuine goods/services.
In summary, it has said: 
The interaction was solely on the social media platform and that while legitimate 
companies do use such platforms for marketing purposes, it would never conduct 
business via private messages. 
That Mr M failed to notice the website he looked at wasnt a genuine commerce 
platform and the website had broken links. 
That while Mr M had search Companies House there is nothing to indicate the 
company he searched was linked/connected to the social medial profile he was 
interacting with. 
The payment was sent without seeing a leasing/hire agreement or signing a contract.
The payee details given to make the payment were for a personal account. Monzo 
state it would expect the payment to be made to a business account. 
Monzo felt all these things together, were flags Mr M ought to have picked up upon and 
made him realise it wasnt a legitimate business being dealt with. 
Monzo contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money, but no funds remained in 
the recipient account. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Monzos decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt believe 
Monzo had fairly assessed Mr Ms claim under the CRM Code and said it hadnt been able 
to establish Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate 
payment to lease a car. 
As Monzo disagreed the case has been referred to me for a final decision. In brief, Monzos 
reasons for asking for a decision are largely for the same reasons which have been outlined 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr M 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr M 
lost. 
The money was taken from Mr Ms current account, so Monzo should pay 8% simple 
interest on these funds from the date it declined the claim to the date of settlement. I 
am mindful Mr M transferred £663 into this account prior to making the payment, but 
given that the money he lost to this scam would have otherwise remained in his 
account and/or would otherwise have been spent  Mr M has been deprived of the 
use of this money. So, I find 8% simple interest on these funds to be fair and 
reasonable. 
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr M lacked a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payment was legitimate for the following reasons:Mr M told us he followed the car leasing/hire company on the social media platform 
for several months and had checked that the account was not newly opened. I 
recognise it has been difficult for Mr M to evidence this, but I do note he has been 
consistent in his testimony to us and so, Ive seen no reasons to doubt what he has 
told us. The company advertised cars for leasing/hire on the page. I dont think it is 
uncommon for companies such as this, to use social media platforms to advertise its 
business. Monzo in its submission also appears to agree with this. Nor do I find it so 
unusual or uncommon for businesses such as the one involved in this case, to 
communicate over such social media platforms. And on balance, I dont think this in 
and of itself ought to have given Mr M reason to think there was anything untoward 
about the social media profile hed been following. 
Mr M also checked the company website and said he was satisfied it was genuine as 
he didnt see any spelling errors or language mistakes. And while Ive not been able 
to access the website myself, there doesnt appear to be a dispute from either party 
that there was a company website. Monzo has commented there were broken links 
within the website which it thinks ought to have been a flag to Mr M and that it wasnt 
a commerce platform. Our investigator was able to view the website and was 
satisfied, that on an initial view of the website, this would have appeared genuine. In 
situations such as this where there are contradictions or the absence of evidence, I 
have to reach my decision on balance. This is what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened in light of all the circumstances. I recognise there is a difference in 
opinion between Monzo and our investigator about the websites appearance. But I 
think the existence of a website added credibility to the legitimacy of the company. 
And, on balance, Im persuaded that Mr M didnt notice any oddities, like our 
investigator on initial view of the website, because had he done so I dont think he 
would have proceeded. I also have to keep in mind that Mr M also checked the 
company on Companies House and saw the company was registered. Monzo have 
said there is nothing to indicate the company he searched was in anyway connected 
to the social media profile he was interacting with, as the Companies House filing 
doesnt include any website or matchable data. While I appreciate what Monzo has 
said, Im not persuaded Mr M ought to have picked up on this or equally have been 
concerned by this. I say this because, from Mr Ms perspective, Im persuaded seeing 
the companys name on the filing would have satisfied him that the company was 
legitimate. Given that hed also checked the companys website and was satisfied 
this was also genuine  together I think wouldve added credibility to the legitimacy of 
the company. Considering all these things together, I dont think the website or 
Companies House would have likely displayed the hallmarks of a scam to an 
ordinary lay person. It follows that Im persuaded all the above would have reassured 
Mr M that he was dealing with a legitimate lease/hire company rather than cause 
concern. 
Mr M told us he has rented cars before and has also leased a car previously. Given 
Mr Ms prior experience, the request for a deposit (of three months lease payments) 
upfront, along with the first months lease payment and administration fee didnt 
appear unusual. I also dont think the payments requested would have appeared 
inconsistent with the process of a genuine hire/lease company. And so, I think this 
wouldve added to Mr Ms basis for belief that what the individual/company had asked 
of him was consistent with his previous experience of leasing a car and that he was 
dealing with a genuine company. Having read the communication between Mr M and 
the company prior to him making the payment, overall, I dont think there was 
anything within this contact prior to making the payment that ought to have caused 
Mr M concern or would have appeared concerning to him.
 Ive also thought about the price of the car lease/hire Mr M was asked to pay - £315 
per month. Having done so, I dont think the price was unreasonable or too good to 
be true. From what Ive seen the price Mr M was asked to pay appears to be within 
the range of a reasonable amount for the vehicle he was looking to lease/hire. So, I 
dont find the price requested to be so good that it wouldve been so obviously a 
scam. Given the price is within a reasonable amount for the lease/hire for such a car, 
I think this wouldve added credibility that he was dealing with a genuine lease/hire 
company.
  
Im mindful Monzo has raised Mr M made the payment to a personal account and not 
a business account. Im not persuaded this point in and of itself ought to have 
indicated to Mr M that the company was not legitimate. I say this because Mr M 
made the payment to the individual hed been speaking to and who he believed was 
arranging the lease/hire for him. When making the payment Mr M received a positive 
confirmation of payee match which I think wouldve reassured Mr M that his money 
was going to the person he was intending it to go to and, in turn added believability 
that he was dealing with a genuine company and making the payment for the 
purpose of leasing a car. 
Monzo has also highlighted that Mr M sent the payment without seeing a leasing/hire 
agreement or signing a contract. While Ive thought carefully about this, having seen 
the communication between Mr M and the company via the social media profile, I can 
see he specified what car he was looking to lease  that the terms and price for the 
car were provided within this communication and, that Mr M was told the paperwork 
would be finalised once the payment was made. Hed filled out the application form 
via the link sent to him which hes told us involved him providing his personal details, 
salary and expenses. Im persuaded this wouldve led to Mr Ms belief that the 
finalised paperwork was on its way to him. 
So with all the above in mind, I dont think Monzo has shown that Mr M lacked a reasonable 
basis for believing that he was making a genuine payment to lease a car or that he wasnt 
transacting with a legitimate person/company and therefore, it shouldve reimbursed him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I therefore direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay 
Mr M: 
the money Mr M has lost - £1,326.25  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus 
8% simple interest per year on that amount (less any tax deductible) from the date 
Monzo Bank Ltd declined Mr Ms claim under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman