DRN-3467526
The complaint
Ms C's complaint is about the handling of a claim under her central heating insurance policy 
with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
Ms Cs policy includes an annual service of her boiler. She says that during the annual 
service boiler in September 2020, she told the engineer that her boiler had been losing 
pressure. The engineer said there was nothing wrong with the boiler but there might be a 
leak in the central heating pipework. I understand some sealant was added to the system but 
Ms C says the boiler continued to lose pressure for several months after that. British Gas  
attended five or six times to try and find the cause of the loss of pressure. On one occasion, 
the engineer removed part of the bathroom floor to try and find if there was a leak, which Ms 
C says cost her £370 to have reinstated. A leak was found but this was not the cause of the 
boiler losing pressure. 
Ms C says she was concerned with having people in their home during the pandemic, so 
decided to just try to keep the boiler going by topping it up whenever the pressure dropped. 
However, by January 2021, Ms C says the boiler was losing pressure and shutting off 
several times a day. Ms C therefore booked another appointment for British Gas to come 
and look at her boiler but she was again told that the engineer could not find any problem 
with it. 
British Gas then arranged an appointment with a specialist leak team but they were unable 
to attend until 10 February 2021. They said the water pressure switch and an automatic air 
vent on top of the boiler pump were both faulty. However, when Ms C phoned to see when 
British Gas could carry out this repair, it told her there was no availability for some time. 
British Gas therefore authorised    Ms C to get her own engineer out to look at the boiler. 
Ms Cs engineer inspected the boiler and said the heat exchanger was leaking so badly that 
he had to condemn the boiler straight away, so Ms C was without any heating or hot water. 
Ms C says she couldnt go to a hotel as they were all shut due to the pandemic and had no 
option but to get a new boiler installed as soon as possible, as the weather was particularly 
cold. I understand the new boiler was installed three days later. 
Ms C is very unhappy with the handling of the claim. She says none of the British Gas 
engineers had checked the heat exchanger and if they had, the boiler could have been 
repaired in September 2019. The temperatures in early 2021 were as low as -9 degrees 
Celsius and as the boiler kept switching itself off she struggled to keep warm, especially at 
night and early in the morning. Ms C also says she had to get a boiler that is not big enough 
for her home, as it was going to take a week longer to get the right one, which means she 
can only run one hot tap at a time. Ms C asked British Gas to reimburse half the cost of the 
new boiler (which cost £4,558.80 in total); reimburse the cost of reinstating the bathroom 
floor; and reimburse the additional electricity costs she incurred in running heaters in her 
home. Ms C also says that she asked to cancel her policy in February 2021, as she would 
not need it after the new boiler was installed but British Gas ignored her request. 
British Gas accepts that it did not handle the claim as well as it should have and that it 
should have been able to repair the boiler. It says it apologised for this and offered Ms C 
£700 compensation, together with £50 to cover the cost of additional use of electricity. It also 
refunded a £60 excess charge and the premiums of £294.98 taken for the policy year 
September 2020 to September 2021. However, British Gas doesnt accept that it should pay 
anything towards the cost of the new boiler as the policy is a repair policy and a payment for 
the cost of a new boiler is not in its terms and conditions.  British Gas says Ms Cs boiler was 
around 15 years old and its engineers had already advised her to replace it in the past due 
to its age, efficiency and being on a reduced service list. British Gas also questions why    
Ms Cs engineer recommended replacing the boiler rather than replacing the heat 
exchanger. 
Ms C has told us that she received the payments of £60 and £50 but the cheque for the 
compensation of £700 was made out to her late husband, which she found distressing. I 
understand British Gas has now re-issued that cheque to Ms C and has made the refund of 
premiums.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She recommended that British Gas should 
send a written apology to Ms C to acknowledge how distressing this situation was and for 
the mistake with the cheque and should pay Ms C a further amount to cover 50% of the cost 
of the new boiler, in addition to the payments already offered. The Investigator put this at 
£2,294.40 but 50% of the cost of the boiler is £2,279.40.
Ms C has accepted the Investigators assesment but British Gas does not. As the 
Investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C took out this policy so she would have prompt access to expert gas engineers in the 
event of her boiler breaking down and so that she would not have to find and arrange her 
own contractors. 
British Gas attended the property at least five times between 29 September 2020 and 26 
January 2021 to fix the boiler and failed to identify the problem on any of these occasions. It 
also lifted the floor in the bathroom unnecessarily. Ms C says none of British Gass 
engineers took the cover off to check the heat exchanger, which was where the leak was 
coming from. If they had done, then it would have been possible to replace the heat 
exchanger and the boiler would have been repaired.
I have looked at the British Gass notes of each attendance. The first mention of checking 
the heat exchanger is on 26 January 2021 and the engineer records that the heat exchanger 
was fine. British Gas says it would be difficult to spot an internal leak on a heat exchanger. 
However, even if I accept that, it seems that the heat exchanger was not checked prior to 26 
January 2021 and I have not seen any reasonable explanation as to why not. I also note that 
the independent engineer checked the heat exchanger and was easily able to see that it was 
leaking. He said it was leaking so badly the boiler needed to be condemned and switched off 
as it was not safe to operate.
Although it has said its engineers acted properly, British Gas also accepts that it should have 
diagnosed the problem with the heat exchanger and been able to repair the boiler.  Having 
considered everything, I am satisfied it is reasonable to expect that British Gass engineers should have been able to identify that the heat exchanger was leaking and that was the 
cause of the loss of pressure. If this had been done in September 2020 then it is more likely 
the heat exchanger could have been replaced and the boiler fixed. 
British Gas has asked why Ms Cs engineer didnt replace the heat exchanger but, while I 
cannot say for certain, it seems likely that the fact the leak was left for a further four or five 
months would have caused more damage. There is no evidence that the boiler was still 
reparable in February 2021 and Ms C was advised it needed to be replaced.
Having considered everything, it seems to me that if British Gas had correctly diagnosed the 
problem with the boiler in September 2020, as it should have, it is unlikely Ms C would 
incurred the cost of the replacement boiler in February 2021. Although her boiler was 
relatively old, it was otherwise fully functional at that time. However, it is also likely that Ms C 
would have had to replace the boiler at some point in the future. Therefore I agree that a 
50% contribution towards the cost of the new boiler is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, together with interest at our usual rate. I also agree that British 
Gas should reimburse Ms C the cost of reinstating her bathroom floor. I have not seen an 
invoice or other evidence of the cost of this. British Gas will be entitled to proof of this cost 
before making any payment.
British Gas has paid £810 in total as compensation (£700, £50 and £60) and also refunded 
the policy premiums for the relevant time, in recognition of its failings in dealing with this 
matter. I consider that this should be slightly increased. I consider the total sum of £950 to 
be appropriate to reflect the trouble caused, including the fact Ms C had to accommodate 
several unnecessary attendances by British Gas and her own engineers, including to install 
the new boiler, during a pandemic; she had to arrange reinstatement of her bathroom floor 
which shouldnt have been necessary; had the trouble of having to top the boiler up regularly 
to keep it working, which meant the house was often cold; suffered a few days without any 
heating or hot water while waiting to have the new boiler installed; had to arrange her own 
engineer to find the problem and install the boiler; and had to spend considerable time on 
the phone dealing with British Gas about the matter. Ms C has also said that she has been 
left with a boiler that isnt sufficient for the size of her home, as she had little choice given the 
extreme weather at the time. 
I dont intend to direct British Gas to issue any further apology to Ms C regarding its handling 
of the matter, including issuing a cheque in her late husbands name. Even though I consider 
an apology is warranted, a forced apology would have no meaning. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to pay Ms C:
1. the sum of £2,279.40 towards the cost of the new boiler, together with interest at 8% 
simple per annum, from the date she paid her engineer to replace the boiler to the 
date of reimbursement;
2. the cost of reinstating the bathroom floor, on production of suitable evidence of that 
cost, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date she paid for this to 
the date of reimbursement;
3. the total sum of £950 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of this claim. (This is to include the £810 already offered, so British Gas has 
already paid that it only needs to now pay the difference of £140.) Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman