DRN-1639825
The complaint
Mr G complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let him reject a faulty vehicle.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr G acquired a second-hand vehicle costing £4,422 funded by a deposit of 
£500 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. It was some nine years old and had 
done 104,905 miles. It broke down on 15 July and the AA diagnosed a leak from the engine 
block had been repaired previously. Mr G had a diagnostic test carried out and the vehicle 
was taken back to the dealer. Mr G says it was reluctant to repair the engine so Mr G 
contacted MotoNovo and after several weeks it arranged for the vehicle to be taken back to 
the dealer.
Mr G used the vehicle for work and as no courtesy vehicle was provided, he bought another 
one. At the end of August Mr G was told the van had been fitted with a reconditioned engine. 
He asked for the number to update the form V5, but the dealer wouldnt supply it. Mr G them 
voluntarily terminated his agreement with MotoNovo and paid funds to cover half the finance 
agreement. MotoNovo raised a charge for damages and missing items but then waived it. 
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended that it be upheld in part. She said there wasnt a dispute 
that there had been a problem with the vehicle and it was clear that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was sold. Repairs were carried out, but as Mr G hadnt accepted the vehicle 
back there were no grounds to conclude the repairs hadnt been satisfactory. She also noted 
that MotoNovo had paid the cost of the diagnostic test and for the collection of the vehicle.
Mr G had chosen to voluntarily terminate the agreement and so she didnt think that rejection 
was a reasonable outcome. However, she noted he had been without the vehicle from 15 
July and recommended his instalments for the period up to 12 September be refunded.
Mr G reluctantly accepted this, but the business didnt. It said that Mr G had made it clear 
that he wanted to reject the vehicle and had bought a new one in early August. There was 
no evidence that the repair had failed and it didnt think it should pay Mr Gs instalments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I am satisfied there was a defect with the vehicle and this has been confirmed by the 
diagnostic report and by the AA report. It seems the seal had been the subject of a previous 
repair.  Mr G agreed to a repair being carried out and I have seen nothing that would show 
that this wasnt effective so I cannot see any grounds to uphold a rejection of the vehicle.
Mr G has complained that he wasnt given the new engine number, but I see that MotoNovo 
agreed to provide it when it obtained that information from the dealer. However, Mr G ended 
his agreement and so there is no requirement that MotoNovo do so. Nor is it obliged to tell 
him how much the vehicle was sold for.  Finally, I note that MotoNovo decided to write off the 
charges it had imposed for damage to the vehicle and for several missing items. I consider 
that to have been most reasonable. 
Putting things right
I can see that MotoNovo assisted Mr G in dealing with the problem, paying for the diagnostic 
test and arranging and paying for the recovery of the vehicle to the dealer. In ordinary 
circumstances Mr G would have taken the vehicle back and hopefully he would have 
continued using it. However, he chose to voluntarily terminate the agreement. That was his 
choice and I have some sympathy with the view put forward by the business. However, I can 
see that he was without the vehicle for a significant time without a courtesy car and I agree 
with our investigator that he is entitled to a refund for that period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to refund the monthly payments from 15 July 2019 when Mr G was no longer able to use the 
van, until he voluntarily terminated the agreement on 12 September 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman