DRN-3419049
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Miss J took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2001 and took out PPI alongside it to cover the 
mortgage. Miss J says that she was mis-sold the PPI and that she was unaware she had the 
policy until recently. Halifax said that it did not mis-sell her the policy, that it gave her a 
choice in taking it out and the policy was suitable for her. But it did make a gesture of 
goodwill offer in relation to the commission it made when the policy was sold, which Miss J 
accepted.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. He felt that based on the documents 
available, Miss J agreed to take out the policy, knowing she didnt have to. And he said that, 
although Halifax says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, 
its made an offer as if it had.
Miss J did not accept this. She still felt that she was unaware she had agreed to take out the 
policy. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
It should be noted that the PPI was sold within a package called Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP). Within this, a consumer could choose to take out PPI, life insurance and 
critical illness cover and could mix and match the products as they wished. Miss J 
complained to Halifax about PPI and when it responded to her complaint, it gave her the 
option to also discuss or complain about the life insurance and critical illness cover. As she 
did not, if she now wishes to complain about these aspects of the TMPP, she should contact 
Halifax directly to raise this.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Js. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Js 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Miss J 
about the commission it received - so Halifax doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Miss J paid for the PPI. But in any event Halifax has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Miss J has said that she was unaware she took out the PPI policy. Halifax has provided a 
copy of the relevant page of the mortgage application form. This had a separate section for 
TMPP which had a brief description of the cover. It gave Miss J the option to sign the section 
if she was interested in taking out the TMPP, which I can see she did. Looking at this, I think 
it was equally clear Miss J could have left the section blank if she didnt want it. 
Miss J has said that this extract is one page of a long document, and that she likely just 
signed where she was told to, without any understanding of what she was signing up to. Ive 
thought about this carefully. Looking at the document, I think the description of the product 
was clear and that it was also clear she was signing and dating the section to agree to take 
out the insurance. Though, from my experience, its likely Miss J would have then had to 
complete a separate application form for the separate parts of the TMPP including PPI. And I 
think that, while Miss J may have been a first time buyer, she was still completing a very 
important document, so I think its reasonable to expect that she would have carefully read 
through it as she completed it. So, on balance, I think its more likely Miss J chose to take 
out the policy, knowing she didnt have to. 
Halifax has said that it recommended the policy to Miss J. Because of this, it had to make 
sure the policy was right for her. The evidence about Miss Js circumstances at the time 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, she 
was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about her employment or occupation that 
would have made it more difficult to claim. In addition, Miss J hasnt told us about any      
pre-existing medical conditions that could have affected her ability to claim.  
Miss J can no longer remember what her sick pay would have been or how much savings 
she had at the time. This is reasonable considering the sale was over 20 years ago now. 
The policy could have covered her monthly mortgage payments for up to 24 months per 
claim if she was too sick to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that would 
have been in addition to any benefits provided by her employer. Considering that she was 
undertaking a large financial commitment, I think she could have found the benefits useful.
Halifax had to provide Miss J with clear information about the policy, and I think its likely the 
information it did provide wasnt as clear as it should have been. But as I set out above, I 
dont think that Miss J was affected by the significant terms or exclusions on the policy. And 
based on the monthly premium and benefits, it looks like the policy was affordable and that it 
provided a useful benefit. Because of this, I think that its more likely Miss J still would have 
chosen to take out the cover had she been given clearer information about it. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think Halifax gave Miss J a fair 
choice in taking out the policy and that she chose to take it out. I think the policy overall was 
suitable for her considering her circumstances at the time and that while the information 
could have been clearer, its likely Miss J still would have chosen to take out the policy had it 
been clearer. So I dont think Halifax mis-sold the PPI. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Js complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss J paid for the PPI. But it 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J, so it doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman