DRN-1710014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Swinton Group Ltd (Swinton) sold them a home insurance 
policy without telling them about important limits on cover. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs A made a claim for storm damage caused to their home. The claim was 
subsequently declined by the underwriter of the policy because the weather conditions 
recorded at that time didnt meet the requirements of what is considered to be a storm. So, 
Mr and Mrs A made a complaint to this service about the claim being declined, but this 
wasnt upheld by our investigator. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Swinton who sold them the policy. They complained because 
they didnt think it had been made clear at the point of sale and subsequent renewal that 
there were specific limits on cover. Mr and Mrs A also didnt think the limits on cover were 
clearly highlighted within the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Swinton looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint and sent a final response in October 2019. 
Swinton said as its a broker it wouldnt have had any involvement in validating a claim as 
this is the responsibility of the underwriter of the policy. But in any event, Swinton said it 
wasnt persuaded that had Mr and Mrs A known about the limits on cover when they took out 
and renewed the policy, they wouldnt have done anything differently or be in a different 
position. 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and so they brought a complaint to this service for 
consideration. 
Our investigator looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
accepted Swinton couldve been clearer in setting out the limits on cover, but he didnt think 
Mr and Mrs A had demonstrated they wouldve acted differently or that theyve been put in 
an unfair or worse position. So he didnt recommend that Swinton do anything. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigator, and so the matter has now been referred to 
me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr and Mrs A, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill now explain why. 
I should firstly make it clear that this service is not a regulator. I cant require a business to 
change the wording in its documentation  or its sales process. Our role is to try to resolve 
individual complaints about financial businesses in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ive carefully looked into the arguments Mr and Mrs A have made here. And I appreciate 
their concern of finding out about limits on cover following a loss at their home. However, the limits on cover here are similar to those Ive seen in most insurance policies as part of a 
validation process. I dont think the criteria is unusual based on other policies Ive seen. 
Some insurers do set out its definition of a storm within the terms and conditions of the 
policy, whilst some others dont. Our investigator said this service also has a well-
established approach when considering whether the loss was caused by a storm  or bad 
weather, which isnt something covered by an insurance policy. And whilst Mr and Mrs As 
policy doesnt define a storm, we think its fair in principle for a validation process to take 
place provided its applied fairly and reasonably. I wont be commenting on the outcome of 
the other complaint Mr and Mrs A brought to us in this decision. 
Even if I did think that Swinton shouldve brought this to Mr and Mrs As attention at the point 
of sale or at subsequent renewals, and that the policy was mis-sold, I wouldnt necessarily 
uphold the complaint. 
When I consider the mis-sale of a complaint I also then go on to look at whether the 
customer has lost out as a result of the mis-sale. In this case I cant fairly say that Mr and 
Mrs A have. I say this because based on everything Ive seen, on balance I dont think Mr 
and Mrs A wouldve done anything differently here at the point of sale or at renewal had they 
been made aware of the limits on cover for storm damage claims. I note this only came to 
light following a declined claim. With any claim, a validation process would take place at the 
outset to establish whether the loss caused was as a result of bad weather, or indeed a 
storm. And given I dont think that the validation process is unusual, I havent been 
persuaded that a similar process wouldnt have taken place with a different policy.
Mr and Mrs A havent provided or told us that they were looking for a policy with specific 
requirements under storm damage cover at the point of sale or renewal. Swinton has also 
told us that as part of its sales process, it doesnt give information about the limits on cover 
for storm damage claims. Therefore Im satisfied theres no dispute here about whether this 
information was provided or not.
As above, the validation process is common across most insurance policies Ive seen, and I 
havent been persuaded that the process is unusual. So I dont think theyve experienced an 
unfair disadvantage as a result of not receiving information about the limits specific to storm 
cover at point of sale or renewal. 
Therefore I wont be upholding this complaint. I do accept Swinton couldve been clearer 
about the limits on storm cover. But for the reasons set out above, I dont agree with Mr and 
Mrs A that theyve been unfairly disadvantaged in the circumstances or wouldve on balance 
done anything differently at the point of sale or renewal. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman