DRN-4070249
The complaint
Mr L, through a representative, says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan for £1,000 that Bamboo provided to
Mr L on 10 March 2019. The monthly repayments were £60.55 and the total repayable was
£2,179.83.
Mr L says Bamboo didnt complete proper affordability or creditworthiness checks before 
lending.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought Bamboo was wrong to have given
the loan. 
Bamboo disagreed, it reiterated the checks it carried out and why the results supported its 
lending decision. In summary, it said Mr L had excellent credit profiles and a low level of 
debt. The loan was for debt consolidation and would have reduced Mr Ls monthly credit 
commitments by over £300. Mr L had regularly made overpayments and settled the loan 
early showing it had not caused him any financial detriment. It asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ls complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr L. In practice this meant
that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr L
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr L. It asked for details of his employment, monthly income and housing costs. It used
national statistics to estimate his living costs and used an independent income verification
tool to check his declared income. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit
history and his existing credit commitments. 
Based on these checks Bamboo concluded Mr L would have sufficient disposable income 
each month after taking on this loan and so thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value of the loan, the term and the monthly 
repayment relative to Mr Ls declared income. But I am not satisfied Bamboo made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Bamboos credit check showed it Mr L had opened 11 new accounts in the previous six 
months, and there were 14 searches on his file from the last three months. And his credit file 
also showed he was most likely in a cycle of borrowing to repay as he was using high-cost 
short-term loans. This was not a recent or temporary pattern - he had been using this type of 
loan since August 2017 suggesting he was reliant on them to manage his finances. 
I accept this loan was for debt consolidation, but I cant see Bamboo understood which debts 
Mr L was going to settle or that it had any certain assurances that this would allow him to 
end his reliance on high-cost credit. Without this, I think it was unfair to lend to Mr L as there was a high risk extending his indebtedness with this loan would have adverse financial 
consequences.
I have carefully considered Bamboos comments that its checks showed the loan to be 
affordable, but it needed to do more than check it was affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis. It needed to consider the impact on Mr L to ensure it was not adverse, and for the 
reasons set out above I am not satisfied it has evidenced it did this.
Bamboo also argued that Mr L paid more than the minimum repayment and settled the loan 
early. But it does not know how he did this, and given his credit history I find it is reasonable 
to be concerned that this may not have been done sustainably. 
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Mr L. I have not seen any evidence it acted 
unfairly in any other way towards Mr L.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him. Bamboo must put this right.
It should:
Refund all interest and charges, so add up the total amount Mr L repaid and
deduct this sum from the capital amount of the loan.
As reworking Mr Ls loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint. Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, must put
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman