DRN-1306655
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of Mr S that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax Building 
Society) refused to allow Mr B to make a withdrawal from Mr Ss account while Mr S was in 
hospital.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S had a seizure and had to be immediately admitted to hospital for an 
operation. There was no time for him to make arrangements about his finances. While he 
was in hospital, he had to pay his rent, which his landlord would only accept in cash. Since 
he couldnt pay this himself, he asked Mr B to do it for him. He couldnt transfer the money to 
Mr Bs account, so Mr B went to a branch of Halifax to withdraw the money from Mr Ss 
account.
Mr B took Mr Ss driving licence and debit card with him, and a letter from a solicitor 
confirming that he had Mr Ss authority to act on his behalf. But the branch staff confiscated 
these items, and Mr B says they tore the letter up in front of him. Halifax then blocked the 
account.
Mr B brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of Mr S. Halifax said that as no third 
party mandate had been set up for the account, it had been unable to allow Mr B to make a 
withdrawal. It said the account terms and conditions said that Halifax may block the account 
if the account holders debit card is compromised, and since it had been in Mr Bs 
possession and he apparently knew the personal identity number (PIN), it had been entitled 
to close the account until Mr S had attended the branch in person nine days later.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, as she agreed with Halifaxs reasons. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the member of Halifax staff who dealt with Mr B in the branch, Mr B did not 
immediately identify himself as a third party who was acting on behalf of Mr S. Mr B 
presented Mr Ss driving licence and asked to withdraw £2,000, and the staff member 
recognised that Mr B was not the person in the photograph. The staff member asked Mr B 
for a signature, and Mr B signed in Mr Ss name. Mr B then explained who he really was, 
and said that Mr S was in hospital and unable to come into branch himself. So there is no 
suggestion that Mr B intended to commit fraud, but nevertheless I can understand why the 
staff member declined to allow the withdrawal to happen, and blocked the account, instead 
of just explaining the correct way to set up a third party mandate.
I accept that version of events, since I have no reason to doubt it. It is unfortunate that this 
was the sequence of events, because it is likely that Halifax would have explained to Mr B 
how to set up a third party mandate if he had immediately explained who he was at the start. 
(This procedure involves the account holder filling in a form, and this normally requires him 
to attend the branch in person, but the branch manager has discretion to waive that 
requirement if there is good reason to do so, such as the account holder being in hospital.)
However, Halifaxs staff member became suspicious, and these suspicions were shared by 
the branch manager. It later turned out that there had in fact been nothing to worry about, 
but I think that suspicions which have been formed in good faith should not result in a 
complaint being upheld just because it later transpires that no fraud was being committed  
even if the account holder was inconvenienced as a result. That is because fraud against 
bank and building society accounts is currently a widespread problem, and so financial 
institutions should be permitted a wide degree of latitude in their attempts to protect their 
customers against fraud. So I think that Halifaxs reaction was reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case, and that blocking the account was a proportionate response.
If I had upheld this complaint (which I do not), I would have only had power to award 
compensation for any inconvenience suffered by Mr S, as he is the account holder. I have no 
power to award compensation for any inconvenience caused to Mr B by Halifax. That is 
because he was not Halifaxs customer, and under the relevant rules which set out the 
jurisdiction of this Service, only Halifaxs customer is eligible to complain about what has 
happened to him. For that reason, I have not considered Mr Bs complaint that Halifax tore 
up the solicitors letter (which is denied by Halifax), as this did not affect Mr S, only Mr B.
I recognise that Mr S was inconvenienced by having to visit the branch himself when he left 
the hospital, but that was not the result of any error by Halifax, so I cannot uphold this 
complaint because of that. Sometimes legitimate security measures will cause some 
inconvenience to customer, and that cant always be helped.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020. Mr B may answer on his behalf. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman