DRN-3450190
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain that Nationwide Building Society wont extend the term of their 
mortgage.
 
What happened
In April 1991, Mr S1 and Mr S2, with their late mother, took out an interest only mortgage 
with Nationwide on a leasehold property. The mortgage had two parts and was for total 
borrowing of £32,000  each part had an initial term of 25 years. 
The mortgage term ended in April 2016 and Nationwide have granted a number of short 
extensions to their mortgage term to allow Mr S1 and Mr S2 to consider their options for 
repayment of the debt. They have requested on a number of occasions that Nationwide 
extend the term of the mortgage, but these requests have been declined due to the number 
of years remaining on their lease.
In 2019, Nationwide began legal proceedings to recover the mortgage debt. These were 
adjourned in April 2019 as Mr S1 and Mr S2 had made an arrangement with its litigation 
department in March 2019 to pay the mortgage on a repayment basis for six months. 
Nationwide say this was to see if they could meet the higher monthly payments with a view 
to extending the mortgage, but agreement would still be subject to the lease being extended.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 say they reached an agreement that the mortgage would be extended over 
13 years. They say the only condition they needed to meet was to evidence they could afford 
the higher monthly payments for six months on a repayment basis. Following the six-month 
trial period there was a delay with Mr S1 and Mr S2 contacting Nationwide due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. However, when they did make contact to extend the mortgage term, 
Nationwide declined the request. Unhappy, they raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded saying it couldnt agree to a term extension until the lease on the 
property had been extended to meet its lending policy. It explained that because a term 
extension couldnt be agreed the mortgage was passed to its litigation team. Nationwide said 
whilst it did agree to a six-month trial period on a repayment basis, it never guaranteed a 
term extension would be granted. However, it recognised that it could have been clearer 
about the need for the lease to be extended, so sent a cheque for £150 to Mr S1 and Mr S2 
for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and felt the offer of compensation was fair. They 
explained that Nationwide had previously made it clear that a term extension couldnt be 
granted unless the lease was extended. However, they felt Nationwide hadnt given clear 
information with regards to the lease in 2019 raising the expectations of Mr S1 and Mr S2  
but they felt the £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. So, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note that Mr S1 and Mr S2 instructed their solicitor to provide further evidence and 
comments in preparation for the complaint being considered by an Ombudsman. They 
contacted us on 8 April 2022 asking for a four-week extension to provide this information, but 
despite attempted contact and reminders by the Investigator they have not provided any 
further information for consideration by the date of this decision. 
Whilst we give both parties the opportunity to respond with any further evidence and 
comments, we cant keep complaints open indefinitely. Having reviewed all the information 
we have, I dont think anything further is needed in order for me to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Nationwide has provided me with a copy of the relevant part of its lending policy. This states 
that a customer with a leasehold property will need at least 55 years remaining on their lease 
from the date of extending their term, and 30 years remaining on the lease at the end of the 
extended term. At the times Mr S1 and Mr S2 have requested term extensions to their 
mortgage, their lease has had less than 55 years remaining. So, Im satisfied Nationwide has 
correctly applied its lending policy to their requests. 
I appreciate this would have been disappointing for Mr S1 and Mr S2, but Nationwide is 
allowed to set its own lending policy, using its own commercial judgement, when deciding 
whether or not to extend a mortgage term. And a policy such as this doesnt seem 
unreasonable when considering the increased risk to the business in regards to recovering 
the outstanding debt when a lease is nearing the end of its term.  
Mr S1 and Mr S2 say that they were told they could have a term extension of 13 years 
following a trial period of maintaining higher monthly payments for six months on a 
repayment basis. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this term extension was agreed and 
having reviewed the contact notes for the account, I think Mr S1 and Mr S2 should 
reasonably have known this wouldnt have been possible. I say this because Nationwide has 
consistently told Mr S1 and Mr S2 on a number of occasions, since their mortgage term 
expired in April 2016, that a term extension couldnt be agreed until they extended the lease 
on their property. 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 havent been able to provide any evidence that they were told a term 
extension would be agreed  although, as Ill go on to explain, Nationwide has 
acknowledged it couldve been clearer in its communication in 2019. But even if Mr S1 and 
Mr S2 had been able to show they were wrongly told a term extension would be agreed this 
wouldnt have meant I would reach a different outcome. This is because I wouldnt generally 
expect a business to honour incorrect information given to a customer if it goes against its 
lending policy  especially if the customer had been given the correct information several 
times before the wrong information was provided. 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 have been given a number of short extensions to their mortgage term to 
give them the opportunity to consider their options for repayment. This is in line with what I 
would expect Nationwide to do considering the difficult circumstances Mr S1 and Mr S2 find 
themselves in. However, I wouldnt expect Nationwide to continue with these concessions 
indefinitely and ultimately Mr S1 and Mr S2 need to repay the money they borrowed. It has 
been approximately six years since their mortgage term ended and I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for Nationwide to consider other options to recover the debt. Nationwide accepts that it could have been clearer during the March 2019 call that the lease 
extension would still be required to complete a permanent term extension following the trial 
period of higher monthly payments. However, I dont think Mr S1 and Mr S2 have lost out 
from this unclear information. I say this because they never would have been eligible for the 
term extension and by making the higher monthly payments, to demonstrate they could 
afford a repayment mortgage, they have benefitted as they have reduced the outstanding 
debt. 
Nationwide sent Mr S1 and Mr S2 a cheque for £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unclear information. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. But I think 
the amount fairly takes into account the fact that they should have been aware from previous 
conversations that a term extension wouldnt be possible without the lease extension.
My final decision
My decision is the £150 compensation offered by Nationwide Building Society is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If this hasnt already been paid, Nationwide should arrange for this to be paid to Mr S1 and 
Mr S2.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman