DRN-4170462
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr and Mrs B took out in 
September 2007 with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. The mortgage was taken out 
on the advice and recommendation of a third party broker. The mortgage was for ten years, 
so expired in September 2017 and the outstanding balance is now overdue for repayment. 
There are several strands to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, which I summarise below. 
Mr and Mrs B say Halifax:
lent the money on an interest-only basis without giving any thought on how they would 
repay the capital when the term expired;
has overcharged interest and denied them access to a lower rate; and
hasnt helped them since the mortgage expired in September 2017, during which time 
theyve been in financial hardship and trying to sell the mortgaged property.
Halifax has put all action to recover the overdue debt on hold whilst we consider the 
complaint. 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 15 May 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
the merits of this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs B and Halifax. 
Im also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr and Mrs B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of 
the main points, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage started in September 2007, initially on a two-year tracker 
interest rate. When that ended on 30 November 2009, the mortgage reverted to 
Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR) and has remained on SVR ever since. The 
mortgage fell due for repayment in September 2017; Mr and Mrs B had no means of 
repaying other than selling the mortgaged property. Halifax allowed them a two-year 
grace period to do so, but when that came to an end in September 2019, the 
mortgage still wasnt repaid. 
In early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic struck, and Halifax allowed Mr and Mrs B 
further time to repay the mortgage, but it remains outstanding. Mr and Mrs B stopped 
making monthly interest payments after March 2021. Theyve been trying to sell the 
mortgaged property but so far without success.
In a jurisdiction decision dated 9 May 2023, I confirmed that my remit to consider this 
complaint was as follows:
I have no power to consider the complaint that Halifax lent the money on an interest-
only basis without giving any thought on how Mr and Mrs B would repay the capital 
when the term expired;
My power to consider the complaint that Halifax has overcharged interest and denied 
Mr and Mrs B access to a lower rate is limited to events since June 2016; and
I can consider how Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs B since the mortgage term expired in 
September 2017.
The parties were given two weeks to make further comment on the merits of the 
complaint; both have done so already. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the 
complaint. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their 
internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take 
either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the 
following conclusions on the two heads of complaint I am able to consider. Ill 
address them in reverse order.
How Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs B since the mortgage term expired in 
September 2017
My starting point here is that Mr and Mrs B borrowed money from Halifax, and under 
the terms of their original agreement with Halifax, was due to repay the money in 
September 2017. No-one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve 
borrowed before, theyre not automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt 
after it has fallen due. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for a term extension, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the 
banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public.
Halifax will only consider granting a term extension where the borrower can evidence 
a suitable repayment strategy for the entire balance. It seems that the only provision 
Mr and Mrs B have for repaying the full balance, other than re-financing to another 
lender, would be the sale of the mortgaged property. Halifaxs lending criteria dont 
provide for that but Halifax did allow them a two-year grace period after the mortgage 
expired (so, to September 2019) to allow them to sell the property and repay the 
mortgage. In the current regulatory climate, thats neither unfair nor unreasonable. 
Then, in early 2020, when the pandemic hit, Halifax allowed Mr and Mrs B further 
time. Thats what Id have expected it to do, given the new rules introduced by the 
FCA in response to the pandemic. But lenders arent required to wait indefinitely to 
be repaid the money theyve lent, and whilst Halifax has continued to hold recovery 
action in abeyance since the complaint came to us in August 2022, it doesnt have to and we cant insist that it do so. Also, the position has become further complicated by 
the fact that Mr and Mrs B stopped making monthly interest payments after March 
2021.
Halifax also considered whether a switch to capital repayment might be affordable for 
Mr and Mrs B. It concluded it wouldnt be, and whilst I understand how upsetting 
Mr and Mrs B has found that, its a decision that is consistent with Halifaxs lending 
criteria, which in turn are shaped by FCA regulations. 
In summary, both lending decisions  not to extend the term of the interest-only 
mortgage or convert the mortgage to capital repayment and extend the term  were 
commercial judgements for Halifax to make. Neither decision was inconsistent with 
the banks lending policy and current regulatory requirements. I fully understand that 
Mr and Mrs B have found both decisions unwelcome, but they werent unfair, and 
that is the test I have to apply. 
Halifax has overcharged interest and denied Mr and Mrs B access to a lower rate 
since June 2016
As specified, I can only consider this point as it relates to what has happened since 
June 2016. If I refer to anything before then, it is for context only. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage is on Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR). In June 2016, 
that was 3.99%, but it has risen periodically to reflect increases in interest rates 
generally as the economic environment has changed. Theres no suggestion in the 
evidence that Halifax has charged interest on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage at a rate that 
is higher than the SVR from time to time. Rather, when they refer to being 
overcharged, Ive taken Mr and Mrs B as meaning they should have been charged 
interest at a rate that is lower than the SVR.
It seems to me that there are two main tests for me to apply here. They are:
whether Halifax did enough after June 2016 to let Mr and Mrs B know that lower 
interest rate deals were available and what they needed to do in order to get one; 
and
whether Halifax was obliged to offer them a better interest rate deal.
 
On the first test, in her initial view on the case, our investigator thought Mr and Mrs B 
should have known that better rates were available when Halifax wrote to them on 31 
October 2009 to tell then the original interest rate product from the start of the 
mortgage  a two-year tracker rate  had ended. Ive looked at that letter, and other 
than telling Mr and Mrs B about the switch to a variable rate and the new monthly 
payment resulting from that, the letter doesnt mention other rates might be available. 
All it says is: If you have any queries please contact us on the above number. I 
dont think thats enough to meet the first test.
Its difficult to form a conclusion on whether Mr and Mrs B knew that better interest 
rates were available after June 2016. The annual statement for September 2016 sets 
out the rate Halifax had charged in the period covered by the statement. This was, as 
Ive said, the SVR, albeit it had not varied during the year. It had been 3.99% 
throughout. What the statement doesnt say is that other interest rates might be 
available and that Mr and Mrs B can contact Halifax to see if they qualify for one.
Also, theres nothing in the contact notes to suggest the subject of a new rate was 
mentioned in the periodic discussions between the parties. These were almost entirely focused on Mr and Mrs Bs plans to develop the property in order to sell it 
and repay the mortgage. 
Put all of the above together, and Im not convinced on the evidence before me, that 
Halifax has met the first test of letting Mr and Mrs B know that there were lower rates 
available than the SVR they were on, and what they could do to find out if they were 
eligible for one. To consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs B were 
prejudiced by that, Ive then applied the second test: i.e. whether Halifax was obliged 
to offer them a better interest rate deal after June 2016, in the event they had asked 
for one.
My starting point on this element of the complaint that no borrower is entitled to a 
lower rate; lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances in all 
cases. They also have their individual lending criteria and appetite for risk. Its not the 
role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say what those criteria should be, or to 
second-guess lenders judgement on risk.
The difficulty Mr and Mrs B will have faced from June 2016 onwards is that their 
mortgage only had until September 2017 before it was due to be repaid. Meanwhile, 
the shortest fixed rate deal Halifax offers is two years. Its not alone in that; two years 
is pretty much universal amongst mortgage lenders as being the minimum duration of 
a fixed rate deal. Its for lenders commercial judgement to decide the deals they 
offer, and not up to me to say Halifax should offer fixed rates with shorter durations 
than two years. 
Its normal for fixed rate deals to come with an early repayment charge (ERC) in the 
event the mortgage is repaid during the product term. So it wouldnt have been right 
for Halifax to give Mr and Mrs B a new deal knowing theyd be forced to incur an 
ERC on repaying the mortgage when it became due. That of course begs the 
question of whether Halifax should have been willing to extend the mortgage term in 
order to facilitate the provision of a fixed rate, but Ive already dealt with that. 
Its a matter of record that Halifax has allowed Mr and Mrs B more time to repay the 
mortgage, but that was in the form of forbearance; it wasnt a formal term extension. 
If Mr and Mrs B had been in a position to sell their home at any time during the 
forbearance period, theyd have been expected to do so and repay the mortgage 
immediately, thus incurring an ERC.  So I cant fairly say that Halifax should have 
been willing to offer Mr and Mrs B a better rate on the mortgage, either before the 
term expired or in the additional time it has given them to repay the mortgage since 
the term expired.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is 
to Mr and Mrs B. Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre 
as close to a situation as they are here. The prospect of having to sell ones home 
must be deeply distressing, and I am not unsympathetic towards Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
But my remit requires me to be objective, impartial, and to decide what is fair, 
reasonable and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means 
that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I 
dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; that 
time has now passed. Halifax confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs B replied 
reiterating their frustration and sense of grievance, but added nothing new that they hadnt 
already said before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and with no further substantive arguments or evidence to consider, I wont be changing my 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman