DRN-4144642
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with a cash withdrawal 
request.
What happened
Mrs G says she tried to withdraw cash from her account in early 2022 from a Nationwide 
branch. She says Nationwide dealt inappropriately with her and called the Police as well as 
Social Services. Mrs G says it was her money and disputes what Nationwide says about 
what took place in branch and what it says she did. She would like compensation and the 
staff member involved dismissed.
Nationwide says Mrs G attended its branch on 2 February 2022 to make a large cash 
withdrawal. It says it has a duty in those circumstances to question the withdrawal reason 
and to make sure its customer is not a fraud victim. Nationwide doesnt accept making a 
mistake by involving third parties such as the Police.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought this was a large attempted withdrawal of £15,000 and that Nationwide was obliged 
to ask Mrs G questions about it.
Mrs G doesnt accept that view and has provided various reports prepared about what took 
place. She says she was falsely told she was a victim of fraud when she was not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs G will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what took place. 
I am sure Mrs G appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and that they must have measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I accept 
that on occasions that means legitimate customers and transactions are affected by those 
security measures. And I accept as here, that this was Mrs Gs money and not Nationwides.
Im satisfied that Nationwide was entitled to question Mrs Gs withdrawal request as this was 
relatively significant cash withdrawal. And that it was reasonably entitled to apply its fraud 
protocol which involves Social Services as well as the Police in these circumstances. I 
accept that Mrs G found that involvement intrusive but that doesnt mean Nationwide made a 
mistake or acted unfairly. I have not seen any evidence that suggests Nationwides intention 
was anything other than trying to protect Mrs Gs interests.
I appreciate that Mrs G makes a number of complaints about what Nationwide said and did 
following the branch visit. But it is very difficult to be sure about what was said in these 
circumstances when Nationwide provides a different version. I cant fairly prefer one version 
over the other and in any event accept the main issue here is the involvement of third 
parties.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide is entitled to refuse a request to withdraw money and 
invoke a security protocol in these circumstances. It follows that I cant fairly order that it pay 
compensation as Mrs G would like and in any event, its not our role to direct that staff be 
disciplined. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman