DRN-2878943
The complaint
Mr M complains that Enterprise Investment Partners LLP (Enterprise) didnt provide him 
with clear information about the exit strategy for the Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) he 
invested in.
What happened
Mr M invested £100,000 in an EIS managed by Enterprise in March 2017, after receiving 
advice from his financial adviser. Mr Ms adviser is representing him in bringing this 
complaint. 
Mr Ms adviser contacted Enterprise in March 2020 for an update as the end of the three-
year qualifying period for EIS relief was approaching and he wanted to know the value of the 
investment. Following correspondence and discussions over a period of a few months 
Enterprise explained that Mr M was unlikely to be able to withdraw his funds for at least two 
years. 
Mr M complains that:
One of the reasons he chose the EIS was that the literature said he could decide 
after three years whether to retain it or not. It was his understanding that he would 
have the option to roll over the investment, either in the same EIS or a different EIS, 
or to withdraw his funds. But, at the end of three years, he was not presented with 
any options and he was unable to withdraw his funds. If it had been made clear that 
he might not be able to withdraw his funds after three years, then he would probably 
have invested elsewhere.
Enterprise have not communicated clearly with him or managed his expectations 
about what would happen at the end of the three years. If Enterprises regular reports 
had said there were likely to be delays in exiting from the EIS, he could have planned 
accordingly. Instead he planned on the basis of his funds from the EIS being 
available for other purposes.
Mr M wants the value of his investment back at the earliest opportunity.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Enterprise have said:
The EIS brochure (the brochure) clearly stated that investors should be prepared 
for their capital to be tied up for longer than three years and in the worst-case 
scenario not realised at all. 
The brochure explained that investments in unquoted companies can be difficult to 
sell and identified that as one of the risks with an EIS investment. It said that an exit 
could take time and described the risks based on different exit scenarios.
While it was clear that an exit could not be guaranteed, the wording around investor 
options at the end of the three-year period could potentially have led to confusion. 
That was especially the case in a situation where it was less likely that an investor 
could exercise any of the presented options at the three-year mark.   
Mr M received regular reports in relation to his investments, which made clear they 
were in the development phase. Although it was clear from the reports that an exit 
wasnt likely to be an option in the short term, it would have been better if an explicit 
reference had been made to that effect. 
Their main consideration is to try and obtain the best exit for investors, rather than an 
exit within a specified period, which could potentially result in lower returns for 
investors depending on the market conditions at the time. A variety of factors can 
lead to exit strategies changing or being delayed and so anything that was said to 
Mr M should only have been considered as a guide. 
Enterprise have said that as their brochure was not misleading, they cannot agree to return 
Mr Ms investment. They have however made an offer to Mr M as a gesture of goodwill, 
without admission of liability, for any distress or inconvenience he might have suffered. 
They offered a refund of one-third of the value of the fees paid by Mr M to the date the offer 
was made and to waive future fees payable by Mr M. 
Our investigator thought Enterprises offer was fair and didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr M disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Enterprise were not responsible for giving advice to Mr M about his investment. So, it wasnt 
for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS were suitable for him. 
Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider of 
that advice.
In this decision, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Ive looked in particular at whether the information Enterprise provided 
to Mr M and his adviser was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Decision to invest
Ive looked closely at the brochure that was provided to Mr M and his adviser before deciding 
to invest. The section of the brochure covering the administration and operation of the EIS 
provided information on the timing of exit. It said:
 
Although the proposed life of the Portfolio is at least three years, realisation of the 
Portfolios Investments may take longer than this. Consequently, an Investor should 
not invest if they require access to their capital before the end of the Three Year 
Period, and should be prepared for their capital to be tied up for longer and in the 
worst case may not be able to be realised at all.
The brochure went on to say it was Enterprises intention to provide investors with four 
options from the end of the three year period onwards. The options would be to liquidate 
some or all of their investment, transfer to a new product or retain the investment. 
The brochure then said:
 It is anticipated that the Investment Manager will arrange an exit from the investment 
through the sale of the Investee Company shares to third parties. If Investors wish to 
retain their investment they will be able to do so, and their investment should remain 
qualifying. The Investor should note that the sale of shares in Investee Companies 
may be delayed.
So, Enterprises intention was to give investors options from the end of the three year period. 
But I think it was clear that was not guaranteed and that investors should have been 
prepared for their capital to be tied up for longer and, in the worst case, not be realised at all.
 
The liquidity risks were also highlighted in the section of the brochure that explained in more 
detail the risks of the investment. It said: 
Investments in Unquoted companies can be difficult to sell, especially when 
compared against quoted companies where there is normally a liquid exchange 
between buyers and sellers
The Investment Manager will always be focused on maximising the proceeds that 
are generated should they need to undertake this process. 
Investors should be aware that a winding-down/sale process could take in excess of 
a year and this should be considered before any investment in [the] EIS is made.  
Mr M has said he might have expected some delay in withdrawing his investment, but at the 
time he made his complaint Enterprise were expecting it to take two years. But I think the 
brochure made it sufficiently clear that it could take more than a year and in the worst case 
an investors capital might not be realised at all. As investment manager, Enterprise had the 
mandate to make decisions on behalf of investors and in the interests of maximising the 
proceeds that investors would receive. 
Mr M has also said that the option to retain the investment after three years was a clear 
selling point of the EIS and that implied there would also be an option to withdraw at that 
point. I note that the cover of the brochure highlighted four key points about the EIS, one of 
which was the option to retain investment at end of three year EIS period. Inside the 
brochure, this was identified as one of the key benefits of the EIS. 
Alongside the key benefits, several key risks were also listed. One was in relation to liquidity 
and said: 
Shares of the Investee Companies will be Unquoted and are not readily realisable. 
This could affect their value and the time it takes to find a buyer. 
As Ive already noted, it was Enterprises intention that investors would have the option to 
retain or withdraw their investment at the end of the three year period. But I think the 
brochure made it sufficiently clear that it could take time to liquidate an investment and that 
an investor may have to wait before they could withdraw their funds.
I note that Enterprise have acknowledged that the brochure could have been clearer. 
But overall, I think it was made clear that there was no guarantee that an investors funds 
would be available to withdraw at the end of three years. And I think Mr M was provided with 
sufficiently clear information to enable him to make an informed decision about whether to 
invest in the EIS.  
Reports on the EISThe brochure said investors would receive regular updates on progress and semi-annual 
reports on the status and value of their investments. Enterprise have provided copies of the 
reports Mr M received.
All the reports up until the one covering the period Quarter 4 2019 to Quarter 1 2020 said 
that the investee company was still in its development phase and the valuation of the shares 
was held at £1 per share. That report was the first I can see that referred to a potential exit 
from the EIS. It said:
An exit point seems most likely towards the end of 2021. In order to deliver growth 
and a potential exit, [the investee company] is currently reviewing requirements 
further funding options, either through debt, convertible or equity instruments, with 
the aim of ensuring the best outcome for exiting EIS investors.
From what Ive seen, I think Enterprise provided reports in line with the commitment given in 
the brochure. And I think Mr M was given sufficiently clear information on the status of his 
investment.  
I note that Enterprise have acknowledged that their reports could have been clearer. I agree 
they could have provided more information on a potential exit sooner than they did. But even 
if they had, Mr M would not have been able to withdraw his funds any sooner. I dont 
therefore think he has suffered any financial loss.
Mr M has said that if Enterprise had provided more information in their reports, he would 
have been able to make plans in the knowledge he would not be able to withdraw his funds 
at the end of three years. I agree that by not providing clearer information, Enterprise have 
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr M. But I think the offer Enterprise have made to 
Mr M is fair compensation for that, and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Summary 
Id like to reassure Mr M and his representative that Ive looked carefully at everything 
theyve said. Im satisfied that the information Enterprise provided to them at the time Mr M 
invested in the EIS was sufficiently clear. But I think Enterprise should have provided clearer 
information about the potential to exit the investment in their regular reports to Mr M. 
Enterprise have offered Mr M a refund of one-third of the value of the fees he has paid in 
relation to his investment, along with a waiver on all future fees that are due to be paid. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr M, but I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
Enterprise have already made an offer to pay compensation as set out above to settle Mr 
Ms complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Enterprise Investment Partners LLP should pay compensation as set 
out above to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman