DRN-1730456
The complaint
Miss R complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA hasn't transferred money to her bank 
account as initiated by her on 15 April 2019. This has left her in financial difficulties. 
What happened
Miss R initiated a transfer of £820.71 from her PayPal account to her bank account ending 
3625. She requested the transfer on 15 April 2019.  Miss R complains the funds never 
arrived. 
She says she was told by PayPal that she would get a refund but this never materialised. 
And she followed this up her bank who said it couldn't carry out a trace as that would need to 
be done by the sender. 
She asked us to look into the matter. We notified PayPal of the complaint who issued a final 
response confirming it had traced the payment and it had reached the intended recipient 
account. Miss R remained unhappy and we continued investigating the complaint. We asked 
for statements of her account. Initially Miss R says she couldn't provide these. Then she 
provided screen shots but only for the 15 April not the days following. 
Our investigator was satisfied PayPal had carried out the necessary trace for the payment 
and had shown it reached the account asked for by Miss R. But Miss R asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman. Our investigator contacted Miss R's bank, where the 
payment was sent to and it confirmed the payment was received and was credited to her 
account on 16 April 2019. But Miss R still wants the matter reviewed, she says she has 
provided all the information asked for including confirmation that PayPal would refund the 
money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is very little I can add to the investigator's findings. Miss R's own bank confirms 
£820.71 was received into account ending 3625 on 15 April 2019. It also explained that as 
the payment was received after 6.30pm it was credited the following day. 
Although we have asked for statements of Miss R's accounts, she has either been unwilling 
or unable to provide statements to support her version of events. And although she says she 
has provided evidence that PayPal said it would refund the money, she hasn't actually done 
that. But even if she had, I wouldn't expect PayPal to refund money Miss R has actually 
received. 
The evidence from PayPal and Miss R's own bank shows the money reached the intended 
account. I therefore find no basis on which to ask PayPal to refund Miss R. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman