DRN-4138839
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about Hiscox Underwriting Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim they made under an additional policy cover they added to their standard buildings 
insurance policy called Renovations and Extensions Cover. 
As Mr K is the lead complainant on behalf of him and Mrs K, for ease Ill refer to him in my 
decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K held a home buildings insurance policy with Hiscox. In 2018 they bought 
additional cover as they were having buildings works done to their home. They paid for this 
additional cover from July 2018 until July 2019. 
In 2022 Mr K contacted Hiscox to make a claim. Mr K provided a copy of a structural 
engineer report which identified that some of the building works had been doing differently to 
the plans. Mr K wanted Hiscox to meet the costs of any remedial works required. He said the 
builder had acted negligently and this was something Hiscox had told him would be covered 
under the additional cover when he bought it. 
Hiscox declined the claim. It said that the policy provided cover for physical loss or damage 
which had occurred during the policy period . So for this reason the claim was declined. 
It said that - had Mr and Mrs K renewed their standard home buildings insurance policy with 
it - it wouldnt have met the claim because it excludes cover for damage caused by faulty 
design or poor workmanship. 
Hiscox listened to the key sales call and accepted that its agent had incorrectly told Mr K that 
it would cover negligence if a contractor used the wrong materials. But it said this isnt the 
reason why it rejected the claim. It said this is why it would have rejected the claim if a 
standard policy was still in place. It said the loss or damage had occurred outside the 
additional cover policy period and this was the reason for declining the claim - so while it had 
made an error in the sales call, this didnt affect the outcome of the claim. 
For providing incorrect information in the sales call, Hiscox offered Mr and Mrs K £150 
compensation. 
When discussing Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in October 2022, an agent said that if it found 
Hiscox had confirmed in a previous call that it would provide cover in the specific 
circumstances being claimed for, then Hiscox would honour what was said, and would 
provide cover. Mr K says this was not honoured even though the call recording is evidence 
of such a statement. 
Hiscox said that the agent also said they would need to ensure that relevant enquiries are 
made beforehand to make sure it had all the information and the evidence to make that 
decision. In this case, Hiscox agreed Mr K was incorrectly informed that they would be 
covered for the use of incorrect materials, which Hiscox offered compensation for. But it 
reiterated that the claim had not been declined on the basis of faulty materials. Instead it had 
been declined owing to the loss falling outside of the policy period. So Hiscox didnt change 
its decision. Mr K remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
Hiscox had done enough to resolve the complaint. She found that although incorrect 
information had been given, she wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs K would have acted 
differently if the example given hadnt been mentioned - as she thought it unlikely that Mr 
and Mrs K would have anticipated that the builder would have deviated from the plans. She 
explained that the additional policy provided cover for physical loss or damage during the 
policy period. As the claim was made outside of the policy period, the Investigator found that 
the incorrect information didnt have an impact on the outcome - as the decision to reject the 
claim was for a different reason. 
Mr K didnt agree. In summary he says their claim is for the negligence by the builder: he 
had a verbal contract with Hiscox that this scenario would be covered because of what was 
said in the call in 2018. He doesnt agree that he wouldnt have acted differently if the agent 
hadnt said what he said. Mr K says he proceeded on the basis of what he was told and he 
would have bought an alternative policy such as a warranty policy if negligence by the 
builder wasnt covered under the additional policy. He says they couldnt have anticipated 
that the builder would have deviated from the plans - but that is the point of their wish to 
have appropriate cover in case something went wrong. He says the negligent act occurred 
during the policy period, so should be met by Hiscox. 
Mr K says Hiscox has provided legal cover in relation to the claim for the same period - so 
he doesnt understand the logic that the claim isnt covered because it is outside the policy 
period. 
So Mr K wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy with Hiscox for Renovations and Extensions cover provided cover for 
physical loss or damage during the period of cover. 
The policy defined the term Period of insurance as; The time for which this policy is in 
force as shown in your schedule.
Under the policy schedule titled as How our cover meets your needs it reads:
Our Renovation and extension cover meets the demands and needs of those who 
are carrying out building works and who want to protect themselves against damage 
to buildings, contents and the works including all materials and any additional third 
party liability exposure which they face while the project is taking place.
The policy wording provides further detail of the level of cover Hiscox will provide. Under the 
section Building Works it reads:
We will cover the building works, materials and supplies for use on any work to 
extend, renovate or build your home in the United Kingdom against physical loss or 
physical damage which happens during the period of insurance. We will only cover 
such works, materials and supplies which belong to you or for which you are legally 
responsible while located within the grounds of your home.
Hiscoxs policy has a standard exclusion which Ive seen in most - if not all home insurance 
policies. It says it will not provide cover for loss or damage caused by faulty workmanship or design, or the use of unsuitable or faulty materials.
So I think the policy is clear that it provides cover for buildings works during the period of 
insurance. And I think it clearly explains that it will not provide cover in the event of loss or 
damage during the policy period if caused by using unsuitable materials. 
Ive listened to the key calls. In the call which took place in November 2018, at around 4 
minutes 50 seconds, in response to Mr Ks question about not covering non negligent 
liability, the agent said;
we would cover negligence from a contractor, so if they were using wrong materials 
that sort of thing., they shouldnt be using.
The agent went on to discuss examples of non-negligent liability in contrast to the statement 
above. Going back to examples of negligence, the agent went on to say;
So we send a Loss Adjuster around, see whats been done and they can quickly see 
whats been done wrong.It can take a while to discover if somethings been done 
negligent or not ..but if that were you in your position, you would have to take them 
to court to prove negligence, whereas we would do that for you and carry on with the 
building works.
So while I agree that the information the agent provided was incorrect, I also think the fact 
that he referred to the buildings works as continuing shows that the examples given in these 
circumstances was for the duration of the policy - while the project is taking place - in line 
with the policy schedule wording Ive quoted above. I say this because of the later comment 
in relation to negligence; and carry on with the building works. This is consistent with the 
cover being provided for the duration of the works and the policy. 
Taking all of this into account, I think Hiscox acted fairly in declining the claim due to being 
made outside of the policy period. I therefore think Hiscoxs apology for the incorrect 
information and compensation payment of £150 is a proportionate resolution to this 
complaint. 
Mr K has separate Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) cover. I understand from what Mr K has 
told us that the claim is being considered under the LEI policy. This is separate to the policy 
that forms part of his complaint which my decision relates to. So I cant comment on the 
workings of that policy. 
Mr K has provided a screenshot from Hiscoxs website which gives general information 
about claims occurring policies. In other words, a claim may be covered where the loss or 
damage occurred during the policy period, but didnt come to light until much later. Mr K says 
nowhere does his policy say it isnt a claims occurring policy - and so he believes his claim 
should be considered even though the damage occurred outside of the policy period. The 
example on the website is employers liability insurance. 
We dont expect an insurer to list all of the things that dont apply to a policy. We think it is a 
reasonable assumption to make that if a policy is absent in a type of cover, then it isnt 
included. As Mr Ks policy doesnt say it is a claims occurring policy, then I dont think Hiscox 
has been unreasonable by stating it doesnt apply to his policy. 
Mr K says he believes he has a valid claim under the Defective Premises cover for 
£1,000,000 in total for the period of insurance. The policy defines the cover as:
Defective Premises Act - your liability under any defective premises legislationThis is a new issue Mr K has raised and so he will need to raise this with Hiscox first. It 
doesnt form part of his complaint which Hiscox responded to in 2022, so I havent 
commented on it in my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the compensation Hiscox Underwriting Limited offered of 
£150 to settle Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is fair. 
If it hasnt already been paid, Hiscox Underwriting Limited must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman