DRN-3122921
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited chasing her for a 
debt.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account which was opened in 2018, defaulted in 2019, 
and then was sold to Cabot later that year.
Ms H asked Cabot for copies of certain documents such as the credit agreement. Cabot 
went back to the original creditor. But ultimately, they could not get the documents, so they 
accepted the debt was unenforceable.
Ms H said Cabot had been contacting her too frequently and were harassing her. She felt 
that if the debt was unenforceable then she didnt owe it. And she was also unhappy with the 
default. She asked for Cabot to stop contacting her, to close her account, and to remove the 
default from her credit file.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
didnt think Cabots contact amounted to harassment. They explained that Ms H still owed 
the debt even if it was unenforceable. And they explained that the original creditor defaulted 
the account rather than Cabot.
Ms H asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Ms H raised the issue of enforceability with us. But whether or not a 
debt is legally enforceable is something for a court to decide  I do not have the power to 
determine that. 
With that said, even if this account is not enforceable, that only means that Cabot cant take 
certain legal action. The debt still exists, Ms H still owes it, and Cabot are still allowed to ask 
her for repayments.
There does not appear to be any dispute that this was Ms Hs account. It was set up in her 
name and date of birth, at her address, using her contact details, and I also understand she 
made payments in the past. I understand Ms H requested the deed of assignment, but thats 
not something which Cabot needed to provide. They did send her the relevant notice of 
assignment, where the original creditor confirmed theyd sold the account to Cabot. And Ive 
not seen anything that would make me think that this was not Ms Hs account. So it looks 
like this was a debt she genuinely owed. And so I dont think Cabot did anything wrong in 
asking her for repayments.
Ive also looked at Cabots communication with Ms H, and I dont think theyve corresponded 
with her excessively or unreasonably. For example, they said that Ms H should only pay 
what she can afford, and that theyre happy to listen and find a sustainable payment plan. 
They offered to give Ms H breathing space if she was struggling, and they pointed her to 
organisations that could help. And when Ms H asked Cabot to only deal with her in writing, 
they did so. They only called and texted her a handful of times before that. And while I can 
see that they sent a number of letters and emails after, I dont think they were so frequent 
that Id consider them inappropriate.
Lastly, I understand that Ms H is unhappy that theres a default on her credit file. But the 
account was defaulted by the original creditor, not by Cabot. So if she thinks they were 
wrong to do so, shed need to complain about the original creditor. Cabot are just correctly 
reporting the status of the account.
I hope I can assure Ms H that its quite normal for debts to be sold on like this, and Cabot still 
have to deal with her fairly. As theyve told her, her repayments should be based on what 
she can actually afford. Ms H may want to get back in touch with Cabot to see what 
assistance they can give her with repaying the account. Ill also send Ms H the details for 
charities who can give free advice and help about dealing with ones debts. And Ms H can 
always get back in touch with us for a separate case if she subsequently feels that Cabot 
arent taking account of her situation when working out how to repay the money she owes, or 
if she wishes to complain about the original creditor.
But as things stand now, I cant see that Cabot have done anything substantially wrong here, 
and I think its reasonable that theyve asked Ms H to repay the money she owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman