DRN-3951871
The complaint
Mr A complains about Wirecard Card Solutions Limiteds decision to close his Pockit account 
and withhold his money. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
In March 2021, Wirecard blocked Mr As account while they carried out a review. They asked 
Mr A for some documentation as part of the review which Mr A provided. Mr A explained that 
he used his account to transfer money from another source which he used to buy and sell 
goods. Mr A spent time trying to chase Wirecard for an update but didnt receive a response. 
In July 2021, Wirecard asked for additional information from Mr A  Wirecard confirmed they 
werent satisfied with what was provided but didnt ask Mr A for anything else.
In October 2021, Wirecard informed Mr A they were closing his account and attempted to 
return the money left in it to source in November 2021. Wirecard have since confirmed they 
are still holding the money as the return to source instruction wasnt successful.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was reasonable for Wirecard to still 
be holding the money so asked them to return it to Mr A, including 8% interest and pay £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Both Mr A and Wirecard agreed. However, Wirecard still havent made the payment to Mr A 
 so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account review and closure 
Wirecard are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Wirecard was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ts account in March 2021. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
While Wirecard are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely 
manner and without undue manner. When banks carry out reviews, its common practice 
across the banking industry that the review will require additional information from the 
account holder. Often, the information required is related to the consumers identity, proof of 
entitlement to recent payments or more details on what the account is used for. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Wirecard asked Mr A for documentation and details on his account 
usage on two occasions  in March 2021 and July 2021. 
Wirecard decided to end their relationship with Mr A in October 2021. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr A decided 
to stop banking with Wirecard, he wouldnt have to explain why. Wirecard can only close 
accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. 
Wirecard have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr As account. This service 
wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Wirecard exercised their right to 
no longer offer Mr A banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an 
unfair decision. However, I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me why the review took 
so long, and why Wirecard continued to hold on to Mr As money. 
The money left in Mr As account 
When Wirecard decided to close Mr As account, they decided to return the money left in the 
account to source. I think it would have been helpful if Wirecard asked Mr A for proof of 
entitlement to these funds as part of their review. They didnt and therefore Ive had to 
consider whether it was fair to them to attempt to return the money to source. 
Ive thought carefully about Wirecards comments. They say they havent been able to return 
the money to source and are still holding it  despite blocking Mr As account almost two 
years ago. Having considered everything, I dont agree Wirecard carried out a thorough 
enough investigation to satisfy themselves, or me while considering this complaint, that Mr A 
isnt entitled to the money. It therefore follows that I think Wirecard should refund Mr A the 
full balance which was left in his account when they closed it in October 2021. I also dont 
think its reasonable that Mr T has been without his money for a long period of time. So, like 
our investigator, I think 8% simple interest should be paid on this amount.
Putting things right
Overall, I dont think Wirecard did enough to satisfy themselves that Mr A wasnt entitled to 
the money in the account  so I think they should refund him as he is now at a loss. And I 
think adding interest to the amount they refund him fairly compensates Mr A for the time he 
was without his money.
They should also pay Mr A £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by having to continuously chase Wirecard for almost two years.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions Limited should 
do the following: 
Refund Mr A the amount of money left in his account (£405.90) on the date of 
closure. 
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr A. They 
should calculate this from 25 March 2021 to the date they refund Mr T. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Mr A a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr A asks for one.
Pay Mr A £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.Wirecard must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date Mr A accepts the decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman