DRN-2559427
The complaint
Mrs H complains Aviva Insurance Limited misled her about the value of her Guaranteed 
Over 50s Plan (the Plan). She says Aviva told her if she surrendered the Plan early, shed 
always get back whatever shed paid in. Mrs H has surrendered the policy but says she only 
got around half the amount shed paid into it. She wants Aviva to pay her the difference. 
Mrs H is also unhappy that Aviva took over ownership of the Plan without her knowledge. 
And that other customers are concerned with how these plans operate. 
Mrs H is represented by her son, Mr H. But for ease Ill refer to Mrs H throughout this 
decision. Ownership of the Plan  including the sales process, was taken over by Aviva in 
2017. So, Ill reference Aviva throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mrs H took out the Plan in 2000. The monthly premium was £10 and the value upon death 
was £2,480. 
Mrs H called Aviva in August 2020 to surrender the Plan. Aviva told her the value was 
£1,303. Mrs H had paid £2,450 in premiums and was concerned the amount she was getting 
back was less than what shed paid.  
Mrs H complained to Aviva. It said the Plan had been sold to Mrs H on a non-advised basis, 
with the relevant literature provided to her so she could decide if the terms of the Plan were 
suitable. 
Mrs H was unhappy with Avivas response and referred the complaint to this service. She 
was adamant shed been told during a phone call that shed get back what she paid into the 
Plan. And she said Aviva had broken the law. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied there was no 
evidence to show Mrs H had been misled by Aviva. Whilst limited documentation was 
available, our investigator had no reason to believe Mrs H wasnt provided with the full terms 
and conditions of the Plan when she took it out  and because the sale was non-advised, 
our investigator said the onus wouldve been on Mrs H to check the terms of the Plan before 
proceeding with the sale. 
Mrs H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said Aviva 
was guilty of fraud. She said the terms of the Plan changed when it was taken over by Aviva. 
And Mrs H reiterated that shed not been consulted about the transfer to Aviva or agreed to 
any changes to the terms of the Plan. Mrs H was also adamant that Aviva had told her 
during a phone call that shed get back what shed paid if she surrendered the Plan early. 
And it was on that basis that she proceeded with the sale. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs H feels very strongly about this complaint and is very upset at not 
getting the pay-out shed been expecting, and so my decision will come as a disappointment 
to her and her family.  But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think Aviva has done anything 
wrong.  
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Mrs H has told us that other people have concerns about how similar plans operate. I should 
explain that we look at each case on its own individual merits. It wouldnt be possible, or 
indeed practical, to compare how other insurers may have treated other customers  and 
then use that as a basis to decide if Mrs H has been treated fairly. 
I should also add that as an informal dispute resolution service, its not our role to consider 
allegations of fraud or malpractice. 
Ive not seen any documentary evidence from Aviva specific to Mrs Hs Plan.  Nor have I 
been able to listen to the phone call Mrs H says she had with Aviva. But Aviva has provided 
us with copies of the information Mrs H wouldve received about the Plan. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened - in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Looking first at the phone call, I dont doubt Mrs Hs recollection of what she was told. But 
without any independent evidence, and given the passing of time, I cant say with any 
degree of certainty that Aviva gave Mrs H the wrong information during that phone call. Im 
also mindful of the fact that insurance policies, by their nature, are unlikely to ever guarantee 
to a customer that they would get back what theyve paid in. And in terms of surrendering the 
Plan early, the documentation Mrs H wouldve been provided with says;
But please remember that the Plan is designed primarily to protect you throughout 
life and pay out on death. So surrender is not recommended since the amount 
payable  may be less than the total premiums you have paid. 
As the sale of the Plan was non-advised, the onus was on Mrs H to check the terms and 
conditions before proceeding with the sale. Its unfortunate if there was mis-advice or a 
misunderstanding during the phone call between Mrs H and Aviva. But as Ive no evidence 
of the call, I cant base my findings on that alone. 
Ive no reason to believe Mrs H didnt receive the written documentation Ive seen about the 
Plan. And Im satisfied those documents wouldve given her enough information on how the 
Plan worked to make an informed decision on whether to proceed with the sale. The 
documentation also highlighted the implications of surrendering the Plan early  as in 
Mrs Hs case. So, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong here. Mrs H is also concerned that the Plan was transferred to Aviva. She said she had no notice 
of that and thinks the terms of the Plan were changed as a result of the transfer. 
Ive asked Aviva for some more information on this. Its provided me with a copy of the 
standard letter sent to all customers in 2017 when the transfer took place. The letter makes it 
clear the terms of the Plan, and the payments made, were not changing. The letter also 
explained what a customer could do it they had any concerns about the transfer. 
Its unfortunate if Mrs H didnt receive this letter. But Ive no reason to believe it wasnt sent.  
But in general terms, such transfers in business are standard practice and have no impact 
on the contractual arrangements between the customer and the new insurer. Nor does a 
customer have to agree to a transfer of business in order for their cover to continue. The 
terms and conditions Mrs H agreed to when she took the Plan out in 2000 still formed the 
basis of her contract with Aviva  as they took over all parts of the process in the transfer - 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest the terms of Mrs Hs Plan changed as a result of the 
transfer. 
I know Mrs H feels let down by Aviva and I dont doubt that she took the Plan out in good 
faith and with a specific aim in mind. But taking everything into account, I dont think Aviva 
has done anything wrong or treated Mrs H unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to take any 
action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman