DRN-2746703
The complaint
Miss W complains Shop Direct Finance Limited Company trading as Littlewoods (Shop 
Direct) refuses to refund the interest she was charged for items she purchased through her 
catalogue shopping account.
What happened
Miss W has an account with Shop Direct, which is a running credit account that allows her to 
make purchases on credit through Littlewoods website and mobile phone app. The account 
offers a range of payment options, depending on the goods purchased. One of those options 
is Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) which allows customers to buy goods and delay making a 
payment for a certain period. Interest accrues in that time, but as long payment is made 
before the end of the deferred payment period, it isnt applied.
In November 2019, Miss W called Shop Direct and queried why it had asked her to make a 
minimum payment. The agent didnt know the answer and said someone would call Miss W 
back once this had been investigated. But this didnt happen.
In April 2020, Miss W complained to Shop Direct that it hadnt applied the BNPL payment 
option to all her purchases. She said some of the items shed purchased since the autumn of 
2019 incurred interest immediately and she asked for it to be removed. Miss W also said 
shed attempted to contact Shop Direct about this matter several times during this period and 
was unhappy with the service shed received. 
Shop Direct said Miss W didnt select the BNPL option at the time of making the purchases 
in question. So, they were added to the main account balance and a minimum payment was 
required. It said it had located four calls from Miss W between November 2019 and April 
2020, and accepted a call-back wasnt made as promised regarding the minimum payment 
query. Shop Direct also said although Miss W discussed a different issue in other calls, the 
service it provided was poor. It offered Miss W £30 for the overall poor service but said it 
wouldnt refund the interest charged for items bought on interest-bearing payment terms.
Our investigator ultimately concluded Shop Direct didnt need to take further action. She 
agreed it should have responded to Miss Ws query when it said it would. But she was 
satisfied Shop Direct provided Miss W with sufficient information regarding the payment 
terms at the time of purchase as well as in the subsequent order confirmation email. 
Miss W didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. In summary, shes said:
- Shop Direct hasnt sent an email other than the order confirmation email with 
estimated delivery;
- she accepts she made a mistake with the payment terms, but if Shop Direct had 
called her back as promised she wouldnt have gone to order more items in 
April 2020; and
- she doesnt think she should pay interest for the purchase made in April 2020 as she 
rang Shop Direct as soon as the order was received and offered to send items back 
so she could reorder on the correct payment terms.
I asked our investigator to inform Miss W that Shop Direct had told us her April 2020 order 
wasnt eligible for the BNPL option as she hadnt made the required payment for a previous 
statement. So, the account was in arrears at the time that order was placed. I also asked our 
investigator to forward Miss W sample order confirmation emails which Shop Direct said 
were like the ones it would have sent her, depending on the payment term selected during 
checkout. There was one for a BNPL purchase and another for a non-BNPL purchase. 
Miss W told us her account was only in arrears because of the minimum payment, but she 
was contesting it as she shouldnt have needed to pay anything if items had been placed on 
BNPL payment terms. She also said shed never received such emails from Shop Direct, 
and that the sample emails wed forwarded were for a different brand it also trades under 
and it has different terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss W and Shop Direct that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Ive read 
and considered everything Ive been provided in its entirety.
I can see Miss W already accepts she made a mistake with the payments terms when she 
placed the order in October 2019 and April 2020. But for the sake of completeness, Ive 
considered her online account activity for the relevant period and it confirms she didnt place 
the orders on BNPL terms. The items were bought on a 104-week interest bearing payment 
term.
Ive considered whether Shop Direct misled Miss W in any way about the payment terms 
when she placed these orders. Ive looked at examples of the order journey customers take 
on the website and through the mobile app, and Im satisfied sufficient information is 
provided about the BNPL payment terms during the checkout process if the order is eligible 
for it. So, Im not persuaded Shop Direct misled Miss W when she placed the orders.
In addition to the information it provided during the order journey, I consider Shop Direct also 
made the payment terms reasonably clear to Miss W in the order confirmation emails it sent 
her, as well as through her regular account statements. I accept the sample emails it has 
provided relate to one of its other brands. I also acknowledge this brand has different 
payment terms to Littlewoods. But Shop Direct has told us it uses the same template for both 
brands. This is confirmed by comparing a confirmation email Miss W sent us for a recent 
order she placed on BNPL terms with the corresponding sample email. The emails are 
similar. In fact, the payment term information is more prominent in the email Miss W 
received. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not the confirmation emails Miss W 
received for the orders in question made it clear they werent placed on BNPL terms.
Similarly, the account statements Shop Direct sends Miss W regularly provide information 
about the outstanding balance on the account and how much of this relates to the items on 
BNPL terms. They also show what orders have been placed on the account during that 
statement period, including the payment terms. Having looked at the relevant statement, 
I can see it shows the items in question were placed on a 104-week interest bearing 
payment term. As Miss W didnt place the orders in question on BNPL terms, I dont consider 
it was wrong of Shop Direct to charge interest on the items and request a payment when her 
next statement was produced.
I agree the level of service Miss W received when she queried the minimum payment was 
poor. But I dont think its fair to ask Shop Direct to waive the interest it charged on the 
orders placed in October 2019 and April 2020 because it didnt return her call. As Ive set out 
above, the payment terms were made reasonably clear to Miss W in several places and at different times. I appreciate shes told us she attempted to contact Shop Direct about this on 
many occasions, but a call log hasnt been forthcoming when I asked our investigator to 
request this from Miss W. In the circumstances, I must make a decision based on the call 
recordings that are available. I consider £30 Shop Direct has already offered to be fair 
compensation to recognise the poor level of service it provided Miss W.
Ive also considered what Miss W has said about her account being in arrears and the April 
2020 order being ineligible for BNPL terms. As Im not persuaded Shop Direct misled her 
regarding the payment terms, and Miss W didnt place the October 2019 order on BNPL 
terms, I consider Shop Direct acted fairly in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account in charging interest and requesting a payment. 
Miss W didnt make the required payment for one of the statements produced in 2020, so 
her account was in arrears when she placed the order in April 2020. The terms and 
conditions state missing payments may result in the restriction of promotional offers like 
BNPL. In the circumstances, I dont find Shop Direct did anything wrong in not offering BNPL 
payment terms to Miss W at this time. 
I appreciate Miss W will remain unhappy with the findings of my decision. But, on balance, 
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate she was misled by Shop Direct about the 
repayment terms or what was actually due on her account. She did receive poor customer 
service, but Im satisfied shes been reasonably compensated for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint as Shop 
Direct Finance Limited Company trading as Littlewoods has already fairly resolved it. I direct 
it to pay Miss W £30 if she hasnt already cashed the cheque it issued in 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman