DRN-4391777
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call S complains that Retail Merchant Services Limited (RMS) 
breached its agreement by increasing the card transactions fees they were charged.
The complaint is brought on Ss behalf by one of the partners, Mr P. 
What happened
Mr P told us:
S had received notification in September 2021 from RMSs partner acquiring bank, 
which Ill call E, to say that it was increasing its fees with effect from December 
2021. 
S contacted RMS in November 2021 to cancel their contract giving the required 30 
days notice. However, RMS offered them a new 18-month contract which would take 
effect from January 2022 based on the old fee structure - which they then accepted 
on this basis.
RMS had breached the agreement terms by not using the original fee structure which 
was the main reason that S had signed the new agreement in November 2021.
He wanted a refund of the increased fees S had been charged by RMS and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
RMS told us:
It hadnt increased the fees this was a decision taken by the acquiring bank and it 
had simply passed these fees onto customers.  
It had no control over the fees or actions taken by E and couldnt be held responsible 
for their decisions.
E had communicated the increases in writing to Ss registered postal contact details 
before they had taken effect, and this was in line with the agreement.
It had offered to remove the authorisation fee for S going forward and cover the costs 
itself. However, S wasnt entitled to a refund of the charges which had already been 
applied.
It couldnt locate the call with Mr P, however, it acknowledged it should have 
communicated Es increased charges better. So, it agreed to refund the charges for 
January and February and offered Mr P £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator thought RMS had done enough to put things right. He thought RMS had 
made a mistake in not honouring the fees in the new agreement, however if it had offered to 
refund the additional charges so this would mean S hadnt suffered a financial loss. He also 
thought RMS had acted quickly to put things right by removing the additional charges from 
the following month after it was aware of the error, so the £100 compensation was enough to 
put things right.  
Mr P didnt agree as he wanted significantly more compensation and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
There isnt much more that I can add to what our investigator has already said. Mr P says its 
unfair that RMS has increased the fees charged to S and this is a breach of the agreement 
he signed. 
I recognise that it would have been frustrating for Mr P that S was charged higher fees than 
they expected in January and February, and that this wasnt in line with what had previously 
been agreed. Ive seen that when Mr P contacted RMS about the extra fees, it arranged for 
these to be waived from March 2022 onwards. So I think it acted quickly to minimise the 
financial impact on S. I recognise there was a disagreement on whether or not the fees 
should be paid for January and February, however, RMS has apologised for its mistake and 
agreed to refund the extra charges S incurred during that two-month period. So I think its 
done enough to put things right here. 
Mr P says that S suffered a loss of business because of the increased fees charged by 
RMS, but I havent seen any evidence thats the case. Im also not persuaded based on the 
circumstances of the complaint and the invoices provided, that S suffered a significant 
impact other than being charged slightly more for certain transactions during this two-month 
period. So I wont be awarding any compensation for this.  
I think its also worth noting here, that the agreement Mr P signed with RMS says that We 
may from time to time, vary or amend the terms of our membership agreement at our 
discretion. You will be notified in writing of any changes to the terms and conditions no later 
than 30 days before any variations or amendments are implemented. So although RMS 
made an error on this occasion, it doesnt mean that it isnt able to vary the terms of the 
agreement in the future or that this would constitute a loss of business to S. 
Mr P says that this issue has caused him inconvenience and hes spent many hours on the 
phone and sending emails to RMS. I recognise that this issue has meant Mr P has had to 
take time away from S, however when awarding compensation, I have to look at the wider 
circumstances of the complaint. In this case, S paid extra fees which totalled around £60, 
and whilst I acknowledge that this loss of income would have impacted S, Im not persuaded 
this had the significant impact that Mr P has mentioned. So based on what Ive seen, I think 
the £100 compensation offered by RMS is enough to put things right.     
My final decision
Retail Merchant Services Limited has already made an offer to refund the extra charges 
incurred by S for January and February 2022 and pay £100 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Retail Merchant Services Limited should resolve the complaint in the 
way it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman