DRN-1837191
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined her claim for loss of rent on her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs P had a home insurance policy with Amtrust for a property she rents out. In June 2018 
she made a claim on the policy for malicious damage by the previous tenant. She said she 
had been informed by the local council that he had been sent to prison. When she visited the 
property after this, she found that the tenant had caused a lot of damage that needed 
repairing. 
Amtust accepted the claim for malicious damage. However Mrs P also claimed for loss of 
rent during the time it would take to repair the property. Amtrust declined this part of the 
claim as it said the policy excluded cover for loss of rent where the tenant had vacated the 
property without giving notice. 
Mrs P didnt agree this was fair and made a complaint. She said the reason she had lost out 
on rent was because of the malicious damage, which was covered in the policy. So she 
thought the claim should be accepted. 
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint as it said as the tenant had vacated without giving 
notice, and not as a result of the damage, this would be excluded from cover for loss of rent. 
During this time Amtrust agreed to cash settle the claim for the damage, but payment wasnt 
made until September 2018. Once received Mrs P got the repair work completed and 
arranged new tenants the following month. 
However Mrs P wasnt happy about the amount of time it had taken to receive cash 
settlement, as she said this had further delayed her getting tenants in and therefore led to 
her losing out on more rent. She made another complaint about the delays to Amtrust. 
Amtrust didnt respond within the required time so Mrs P brought both her complaints to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that once the cash settlement had been received, Mrs P had the repairs carried out and 
a new tenant in within four weeks. So she thought that rent lost in the time before this, when 
the property hadnt been tenanted, was due to the malicious damage. So she said Amtrust 
should pay loss of rent during this period. She also thought Amtrust should pay Mrs P £100 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused by not settling 
the claim more promptly.
Mrs P accepted our investigators view. Amtrust agreed to pay the compensation but didnt 
agree that any loss of rent should be paid. It said the reason rent hadnt been received was 
because the tenant had left without notice and this was specifically excluded in the policy. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust says that Mrs Ps claim for loss of rent is excluded under the policy. The relevant 
section states: 
As a consequence of Damage to the Buildings by an Insured Peril or operative Extension 
under Section 1, We will pay up to 20% of the Buildings Sum Insured under Section 1 for the 
Loss of Rent if the Buildings become Unoccupied or partly Unoccupied and cannot be let 
out
EXCLUDING:
a Any Loss of Rent arising from the tenants leaving the Buildings without giving You notice;
So I can see that loss of rent is covered when the property cant be let out, but that this is 
excluded if the reason the policyholder is losing out on rent is because the tenant left without 
giving notice. I need to decide whether Amtrust has fairly applied this exclusion to Mrs Ps 
claim.
Mrs P was told by the council that her tenant would no longer reside at the property as he 
had been sent to prison. As she was told about it by a third party, and after it happened, I 
agree that the tenant left without giving notice. However I dont agree that this was the 
primary reason she missed out on the rental income.
Amtrust has accepted Mrs Ps claim for malicious damage. So it accepts there was damage 
caused to the property that needed repairing. I have looked at the photos of the damage 
along with the details of the repair work required and I can see that this was extensive. 
There was damage to the front and back doors and a number of windows had been 
smashed, amongst other things. So its clear that the property wouldnt be safe to be 
occupied until this damage was fixed, so it couldnt be let during this time because of the 
damage and not just because the tenant had left without notice. 
If it hadnt been for the malicious damage, and just because of the tenant leaving without 
notice, Mrs P would have been in a position to prepare the property and put it on the rental 
market as soon as she found out the tenant had left. However given the malicious damage, 
Mrs P had to wait until this was repaired in order to market the property and find a tenant.
For this reason, the length of time Mrs P went without the rental income was prolonged due 
to the malicious damage. And as loss of rent for this reason would be covered under the 
policy, I dont agree that its fair for Amtrust to apply the exclusion to the whole period she 
was without this income. 
Our investigator recommended that Amtrust pay loss of rent from the date of the claim until 
the settlement was paid and work could begin on repairs. I agree that this is a fair resolution. 
During this period the property couldnt have been rented out because of the malicious 
damage, so I dont think its fair to apply the exclusion relating to her tenant leaving during 
this time. 
However I agree that Mrs Ps tenant leaving without notice would have always led to some 
time when Mrs P wouldnt have received rent. And I agree that this period would be excluded 
from cover. So during the time from when the repair work started until a new tenant was 
found, I think the exclusion would fairly apply and loss of rent shouldnt be provided for this 
period as this was a direct consequence of the tenant leaving without notice.For these reasons I require Amtrust to accept Mrs Ps claim for loss of rent and pay Mrs P 
the income she would have received in rent from the date of the claim until 24 September 
2018 when the cash settlement was made. I also agree that Amtrust should pay 8% simple 
interest on this amount, to make up for the time Mrs P has been without the money.
Our investigator also considered the impact the delay in settling the claim had on Mrs P. She 
recommended Amtrust pay Mrs P £100 compensation. I understand this has been accepted 
by both sides and payment has now been made, so I wont comment further on this aspect 
of the complaint. 
My final decision
  For the reasons I have given, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Accept Mrs Ps claim for loss of rent and pay the rent she would have received between 
the date she made the claim and 24 September 2018.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman