DRN-2500126
The complaint
Miss S complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on her car after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants a higher valuation. 
What happened
Miss Ss car was damaged in an accident and esure declared it to be beyond economical 
repair. It made Miss S an offer in settlement of her claim which it said was the cars market 
value. Its offer was £1,478. There was no policy excess to be deducted. But Miss S was 
unhappy with this and that esure said it would make a deduction of £128 for pre-existing 
damage. Miss S said some of this had occurred in the accident.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had valued Miss Ss car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. 
She thought its offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the trade guides. 
And she thought esure hadnt made any deductions for pre-existing damage.
Miss S replied that esures valuation didnt take into account her cars specification. She was 
also unhappy that esure didnt discuss the valuation with her but escalated it as a complaint. 
She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss S feels frustrated by esures decision not to increase its valuation. 
I can understand that she wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. 
I think esure offered Miss S a settlement for the market value of her car, as defined in the 
policys terms and conditions:
Market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected
to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based
on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought esures offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Miss Ss car. The valuations she found 
were similar to those found by esure. It had offered Miss S the average of the valuations it 
found. I can see that this falls within the range that our investigator found. So I think esures 
offer was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly according to our approach. And I 
dont require it to increase this. 
Miss S said her cars specification hadnt been taken into account. But I can see that the 
investigator checked the optional extras and they didnt increase the cars value in the motor 
trade guides she had available. I dont think this is unusual with older second hand cars. 
Miss S thought she may have been disadvantaged as our investigator couldnt check one 
guide as it didnt provide valuations more than three months after a claim. Miss S said that 
when she checked this guide, the valuation increased due to the cars specification. 
I agree with Miss S that in this guide the optional extras do make a substantial difference to 
the valuation. But where one guides valuation is out of step with the others, as is the case 
here, we discount the outlying valuation. So, whilst I can understand that this is frustrating for 
Miss S, I think esure wouldnt need to consider this valuation. And so I cant say that this is a 
reason for it to increase its settlement offer to Miss S. 
I can see that esures engineer looked at images of the car and thought that there was pre-
existing damage. Miss S agreed some points of damage, but thought others were either non-
existent or caused by the accident. As it turns out, esure didnt make any deductions, so I 
have nothing further to say about this concern as Miss S wasnt caused any loss.
Miss S was unhappy that esure didnt first discuss the valuation with her. She said she 
received a text with the valuation asking her whether or not she accepted it. But I can see 
that Miss S did later have opportunity to discuss the valuation with esure, and no increase 
was made. I can also see that she was given time to consider whether she wanted to retain 
the cars salvage. So I cant say that esures customer service caused Miss S any loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman