DRN-3538438
The complaint
Mr A complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) unreasonably refused 
to convert his residential mortgage to a buy to let mortgage. 
What happened
Mr A took out a residential mortgage with Virgin in around December 2013. In August 2019 
Virgin gave Mr A consent to let the property for two years. In November 2020 Mr A asked 
Virgin about switching his residential mortgage to a buy to let (BTL) mortgage at a time when 
his existing interest rate deal was coming to an end. The valuation of the property came in 
lower than expected and the application didnt go ahead.
In around September 2021 Mr A applied for an interest only BTL mortgage. Virgin declined 
that application on grounds Mr A didnt meet their lending criteria. Virgin suggested Mr A 
consider adding his partner to the application. But he didnt want to do that. His options were 
to sell the property or re-mortgage with another lender. 
The value of the property had reduced considerably, and Mr A was reluctant to sell at a loss. 
Although he managed to find an alternative lender and redeemed the mortgage in around 
April this year, Mr A incurred considerable costs, which he thought Virgin should pay. 
Virgin didnt uphold Mr As complaint. When they responded to his complaint they explained 
theyd assessed Mr As buy to let mortgage application taking into account affordability, 
credit reference information and outstanding debt, in line with their lending criteria. They said 
as well as looking at the risk of lending to them, as responsible lenders theyd also 
considered the risks to Mr A of being able to meet his commitments over the longer term.
Our investigator said Virgin could make a commercial decision about lending to Mr A 
provided their decision not to lend was made fairly in line with relevant rules and regulations 
and their lending criteria. He felt theyd treated Mr A fairly in the circumstances.  Since Mr A 
didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A feels it ought to have been a simple process to convert his 
residential mortgage to a BTL mortgage. On the face of it, nothing would change. Hed 
continue to let the property and make his mortgage payments. But Mr A had a residential 
mortgage which didnt give him the right to rent out his property. Virgins policy was to allow 
a borrower with a residential mortgage consent to let for up to two years. Thats in line with 
other lenders practices to allow consent to let for limited periods only. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Virgin to require Mr A to apply for a BTL mortgage to continue to let the 
property after the two years had expired. 
Where a property is tenanted, lending carries a greater risk for lenders. For example, where 
the borrower is unable to pay the mortgage due to a shortfall in rental income and the lender 
needs to take possession and sell to recover its loan, the process can take longer and be 
more expensive where tenants are in place. Its usual for lenders to apply different lending 
criteria to BTL mortgages than residential mortgages to take account of the risks involved. 
Just because one lender may agree to give a borrower a BTL mortgage - as in Mr As case  
that doesnt mean another lenders refusal to do so is unfair. Thats because different 
lenders have different appetites for risk and may apply different lending criteria. Since 
lending is a commercial decision for a lender to make, we wouldnt generally interfere in the 
decision itself. But we can consider whether a lender has applied its lending criteria fairly. 
So, Ive considered whether Virgin applied their lending criteria fairly in Mr As case. 
Mr A doesnt accept the mortgage wasnt affordable for him and thinks Virgin unreasonably 
refused to lend to him on that basis. He says the contractual monthly payments (CMP) for 
the interest only BTL mortgage he was applying for would have been much lower than the 
CMP under his residential capital and interest repayment mortgage. Mr A says Virgin never 
told him the BTL application was declined on grounds the property value had fallen. He says 
if hed known that, he would have made up the shortfall. 
Mr As 2021 application was declined on grounds he didnt meet Virgins lending criteria. It 
was his earlier application in 2020 that didnt go ahead because of the value of the property. 
Virgin have explained their lending criteria include the affordability of the mortgage, credit 
reference information and outstanding debt; they consider the potential impact of void 
periods with no rental income; they apply stress tests to all mortgage payments including 
any residential mortgages held elsewhere; and they consider the risks to them of lending 
and the risks to their customers of being able to meet their commitments over the longer 
term. I think Virgin came to their lending decision fairly, in line with their lending criteria and 
the risks involved, after considering Mr As financial and personal circumstances.
Virgin gave Mr A the chance of making a joint application with his partner for a BTL 
mortgage, but he chose not to do so. And they gave him time to make alternative 
arrangements. Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Virgin treated Mr A unreasonably 
and it wouldnt be fair to ask Virgin to reimburse any costs or other expenses Mr A incurred. 
So, whilst I understand Mr A will be disappointed, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 September 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman