DRN-3690943
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as N, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly closed its bank account and defaulted its Bounce Back Loan.
Ns director, Mr R, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. He is represented in doing 
so by his wife, Mrs R.
What happened
N was incorporated in September 2019. It opened a bank account with NatWest in February 
2020, and successfully applied to the bank for a £40,000 Bounce Back Loan in May 2020.
Following a review of its relationship with N, NatWest wrote to the company on 2 October 
2020 to advise it was closing its account. It subsequently terminated the Bounce Back Loan 
and wrote to N with a formal demand for repayment of the outstanding balance. After using 
some of the funds held in Ns account to pay down the amount owed, a balance of just under 
£39,500 remained outstanding.
In response to Mr Rs complaint about NatWests decisions, the bank said:
It followed robust processes in deciding to end a banking relationship and didnt take 
such decisions lightly. The decision in Ns case wouldnt be overturned and no further 
details about the matter could be disclosed.
On review of Ns Bounce Back Loan application, it had been identified that the loan 
shouldnt have been granted. So it had been terminated and the remaining loan 
funds in Ns account had been recovered.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr and Mrs R referred the matter to us. Mrs R said it 
wasnt fair for the bank to require N to repay the loan in full immediately, given it had been 
approved in error. She said it had been taken out in good faith, with the expectation of 
repaying it over the 5-year term of monthly instalments. That wouldve been affordable for N, 
but it couldnt afford to repay the full sum, which in turn was causing her and Mr R some 
considerable distress as to the future of their business and the possibility they could lose 
their home.
One of our investigators reviewed Ns complaint but didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. As Mrs R didnt accept this, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ns complaint last month, explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold it. I said:
The account review, restriction and closure
NatWest has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing 
banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use 
under review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so.
I can see that NatWest restricted Ns access to the account once it initiated its 
review. This restriction remained in place until the account was closed. The terms 
and conditions of Ns account allowed NatWest to restrict its services in certain 
circumstances and, having reviewed the basis of NatWests decision to review and 
restrict Ns account, Im satisfied that it did so in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong in this respect.
Following the review, NatWest decided to withdraw its services from N. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close 
the companys account immediately in certain circumstances. I think this was 
reasonable in light of the findings of the banks review (although the bank opted to 
give N seven days notice of the closure rather than process it immediately  and in 
the event, the account was only closed some months later pending a resolution on 
how the bank would treat the Bounce Back Loan).
The termination and recovery of the Bounce Back Loan
Although NatWest initially approved Ns Bounce Back Loan application  with the 
funds having been drawn down and most of them utilised  the bank was entitled 
(and expected) to keep matters under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud 
obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements. So I dont think it didnt anything wrong in conducting a 
review of the loan when it did.
Following its review, NatWest wasnt satisfied that N was entitled to the loan it had 
obtained. Having reviewed Ns eligibility in light of the banks concerns and the 
information that Mr and Mrs R provided about the company, I think NatWests 
decision was reasonable. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
To be eligible for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, the applicant 
business had to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020. While N was 
incorporated prior to this date, there is no evidence that it was actually carrying on 
any business. It only opened its bank account with NatWest in mid-February 2020, 
with no demonstrable business-related activity going through the account between 
then and 1 March. As I understand it, the company didnt hold any other accounts 
elsewhere either. And Mrs R has told us that N hadnt started trading at the time the 
pandemic struck.
Mrs R has explained that she and Mr R considered N to be eligible by virtue of a 
connection to another of their businesses, which Ill refer to as W. She says that W 
was their initial business, but they were relocating and setting up a new business  
N. While I can understand why Mr and Mrs R may see these two businesses as one 
and the same, they were (and remain) distinct legal entities. 
When applying for the loan, Mr R was required to self-declare that N met the 
eligibility criteria  which seemingly it did not. The trading activity of W couldnt be 
applied to N. So even accepting that this all came about through a genuine error and 
that the application was made in good faith, ultimately I dont think N was eligible for 
the loan it obtained. There is also a further question as to the amount of the loan that N obtained, given 
that it declared an annual turnover of £160,000 in order to obtain a £40,000 (with 
loans being capped at 25% of an applicants declared turnover). Evidently, N wasnt 
trading  and while estimates could be used in certain circumstances, the evidence 
Ive been provided with doesnt support that this was a reasonable projection. I note, 
in particular, that Ws turnover during 2019 was £40,000.
I dont think NatWest had cause to question these aspects of Ns eligibility when 
initially processing the application  as it was entitled to rely on the self-declaration 
that Mr R made, in keeping with the principles of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
The application form that Mr W completed also included declarations that set out the 
importance of providing accurate information and the potential consequences of any 
errors in this regard:
I/We recognise that by providing information that is inaccurate in any 
material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to gain, or 
gaining, a financial advantage dishonestly and as such will be liable 
to criminal prosecution for fraud  as well as to the forfeiture of all 
loan proceeds 
It was only when NatWest conducted its review of Ns account and the Bounce Back 
Loan application that it had cause to question the companys entitlement to the loan it 
had obtained. It was, therefore, not a mistake on the banks part that the loan was 
initially provided. 
Once it had reasonably determined that N was ineligible, I dont think NatWest did 
anything wrong in the steps it took to recover the funds. Under the terms and 
conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, the bank was entitled to terminate the loan and 
demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where any 
material information given by N proved to be inaccurate  as was the case here.
NatWest also had other concerns as to both Ns eligibility for the loan and how the 
funds were utilised. But Im not going to assess these in any detail here, on the basis 
that I think the issues with Ns trading activity and turnover were sufficient grounds in 
and of themselves for the bank to deem N ineligible for the Bounce Back Loan and 
terminate the agreement.
After recalling the loan, NatWest applied the funds remaining in Ns account to the 
Bounce Back Loan debt. It was allowed to do this under the terms and conditions of 
Ns account and the loan agreement  under the right of set off, it could use any 
credit balance held in any other account with NatWest by N towards the repayment of 
any amounts owed to the bank. So I dont think it did anything wrong in taking this 
action. 
On a related point, Mrs R has queried what NatWest did with the balance held in Ns 
account at the time of its closure  while just under £570 was used to reduce the 
Bounce Back Loan debt, she recalls the company holding funds of around £3,000 at 
the time. Statements of the account show that the balance was closer to £2,000, with 
other transactions being paid prior to the account closure  most notably, two 
months repayments towards a separate business loan totalling around £1,500. If Mr 
and Mrs R hold any concerns about the use of Ns funds, they would need to raise 
this directly with the bank by way of a separate complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Rs primary concern is the repayment of the 
outstanding debt, not least as N has already utilised the loan funds and only actually had to repay a small amount of them to date. The recovery action has been 
suspended while weve been reviewing the complaint about the decision to recall the 
loan, which  for the reasons explained above  I dont intend to uphold. But I would 
still expect NatWest to treat N fairly with regard to its recovery of the outstanding 
debt. The starting position is that the full amount is payable immediately, but I would 
expect NatWest to give fair consideration to any repayment proposals that Mr and 
Mrs R make in light of Ns individual circumstances.
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
take into account when making a final decision. 
NatWest accepted my provisional findings and didnt send me anything more. But Mrs R 
asked me to reflect on the matter in light of the following points:
NatWest had restricted Ns account during the pandemic and when the business was 
closed, leaving her and Mr R without an income  and therefore means of feeding 
their family  during this time.
They had been invited to apply by their bank manager, who wouldve known about 
their circumstances having just opened their new bank account in February. Hed 
said they met the criteria to apply. 
Theyd only reported a turnover of £40,000 because the company had only traded for 
three months of the year, following the unprecedented closure of businesses like Ns 
due to the pandemic.
The application process was flawed, in that it allowed applicants to apply and obtain 
the loan through no fault on their part only to then be asked to repay the full amount 
immediately after utilising the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs R said about N being invited to apply by their bank manager, who 
she says indicated that we met the criteria to apply and that we were eligible. Theres no 
documentary evidence of this, but accepting Mrs Rs recollections doesnt lead me to think 
that NatWest made an error here. It wouldnt have been incorrect for the manager to suggest 
that N apply and that it was eligible to do so. The company was established prior to 1 March 
2020 and banked with NatWest  so there was no obvious reason why it couldnt apply 
(albeit with no guarantee of acceptance), and no reason for him to conduct a thorough 
assessment before inviting the company to do so.
Rather, the issue is whether N met the criteria to be eligible for the particular loan it 
requested (in particular, the amount of £50,000). Ns application was made on a self-
declared basis  without, as far as I am aware, any input from their bank manager. On that, 
Mr R declared that the company had a turnover of £160,000  which I still think was 
inaccurate, for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
On the £160,000 estimate, I noted in my provisional decision that Mr Rs other company  on 
whose activity the projection was purportedly based  only declared a turnover of £40,000 in 
2019. Mrs R says that this was because of the impact of the pandemic, but the outbreak in 
this country wasnt reported until 2020. So that doesnt explain the significant discrepancy between the businesses actual trading activity and the turnover figure declared in the 
application.
On the broader point that Mrs R makes about the nature of the Bounce Back Loan 
application process, I explained in my provisional decision that this was largely based on the 
applicants self-declaration in line with the Loan Scheme design (for which NatWest wasnt 
responsible). This was to facilitate the quick assessment of applications and delivery of 
funds. The application form made clear the importance of providing accurate information and 
the potential consequences of not doing so, as did the loan agreement. So I dont think it is 
down to an error on NatWests part that the loan was initially given on the strength of the 
information that Mr R provided, or that it was only recalled some time later when the bank 
had cause to review the application in more detail.
So taking everything into account, I still dont think NatWest did anything wrong in how it 
handled Ns Bounce Back Loan. I appreciate that this will have impacted the company and, 
in turn, Mr and Mrs R. But this impact was an unfortunate consequence of the banks 
legitimate actions and not, therefore, something for which I think redress is due. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman