DRN-4104707
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the settlement amount HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) has offered for 
his bathroom, after he needed to make a claim under his home insurance policy.
HDI appointed various representatives on its behalf. HDI accepts responsibility for these. 
Any reference to HDI also includes these representatives.
What happened
Mr T has explained that in April 2021 a leak was discovered underneath the shower tray in 
the main bathroom at his property. The leak caused some damage to the bathroom itself, 
including the shower and sink area, flooring and walls. In addition, a walk-in wardrobe and 
hallway were also damaged by the escape of water.
Because of the above damage, Mr T contacted his home insurer, HDI, to make a claim 
under his home insurance policy. HDI appointed a loss adjuster to validate the loss, and the 
claim was accepted. HDI also appointed a building contractor to compile a schedule of works 
 which it did. HDI accepted this schedule, and this contractor completed the necessary 
work to the hallway and wardrobe.
HDIs contractor didnt carry out the work to the bathroom. This was because Mr T wanted to 
use his own contractor to complete the work in this room. In August 2022 Mr T provided a 
quote from his own contractor. This was for labour, and some materials. But not for what 
Mr T noted as the fixture and fittings that were needed to complete the work  such as the 
floor tiles and wall tiles, or a bathroom suite. The cost noted by Mr Ts contractor for the 
labour and materials was £8,150 plus VAT. 
HDI said it was happy to agree for Mr T to use his own contractor, if the costs were 
comparable to what HDIs own contractor had quoted. And it later emailed Mr T noting it had 
no objection to Mr T going ahead with his own contractor, based on the estimate provided to 
it.
A while later, Mr T provided separate costings for the fixtures and fittings themselves. These 
costings coming to £8,244. HDI considered this to be excessive. It noted it would have been 
able to get all insured works to the bathroom carried out for £8,513.18 + VAT, as per its 
original schedule from its own contractors. So, it said it would only be willing to pay Mr T 
£8,513.18 + VAT, and no more.
Mr T didnt consider this to be fair. He thought the HDIs contractors quote couldnt have 
allowed for all costs in relation to the bathroom. He thought the quote from HDIs own 
contractor was likely similar to his one  which didnt provide for the fixtures and fittings 
needed. HDI disagreed, and considered it could do all of the work, including supplying the 
necessary fixtures and fittings for the price noted above.
As Mr T was dissatisfied, he raised a complaint with HDI about the matter. In its final 
response letter, HDI said it was satisfied the settlement it had offered for the bathroom was 
fair. And it noted that some items Mr T had claimed for werent covered by the policy, as they 
werent damaged by the escape of water. But HDI did accept there had been some delays in 
responding to Mr T about the bathroom work. So, it offered £250 compensation for this.
Mr T remained dissatisfied. So, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They were 
satisfied the settlement offered by HDI was fair and reasonable, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Our investigator also considered the £250 compensation to be fair. 
So, they didnt recommend HDI do anything differently.
Mr T didnt agree. Whilst Mr T accepted that it might have been possible to reuse some of 
the original fixtures and fittings from the bathroom. But said this wasnt the case for most 
items  including the shower base and enclosure, wall units and tiles. Mr T reiterated that he 
didnt agree the settlement HDI provided was a fair reflection of the cost to repair the 
bathroom. And said he didnt receive a detailed breakdown of HDIs schedule of work until 
long after hed made his complaint.
As Mr T didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the £250 compensation offered to Mr T in respect of this 
complaint is fair and reasonable. And I dont require HDI to do anything more than this. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr T  its clear he feels strongly about the matter. 
But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all of the information supplied to 
me. Ive explained my decision below  but only referred to that which I consider necessary 
to detail my reasoning.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether HDI 
acted in line with these requirements, when it agreed to settle the bathroom element of 
Mr Ts claim, at £8,513.18 + VAT. 
Ive also reviewed the documents for Mr Ts policy. I can see that under part three, which 
explains how HDI will settle claims, the following is detailed:
Where your insurer can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but then 
agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not be more than the 
amount they would have paid their preferred supplier.
Mr T selected to use his own contractors to complete the work to the bathroom. HDI had 
offered for its own contractors to do the work. As above, the policy is clear that if a 
policyholder chooses to use their own contractor, as opposed to the insurers, then the 
insurer will settle the claim based on what it would have cost the insurer to complete the 
work. That is usual in insurance policies of this nature. So, I dont find it to be unreasonable. 
Im also aware that whilst there were a number of conversations between Mr T and HDI 
about the work, including one email where HDI accepted Mr Ts estimate for £8,150 + VAT. 
However, from looking at phone notes, I can see that HDI did make it clear to Mr T that the 
costs of the work should be comparable with HDIs own contractors. And when Mr T submitted his estimate for the fixtures and fittings, HDI did explain why this wasnt 
acceptable to it.
HDI has said that it based its cash settlement on what it would have cost it, through its own 
contractors, to repair the damage, in line with the above. So, Ive needed to think whether it 
has shown that to be the case. 
And I think it has shown that. I appreciate Mr T doesnt feel that HDIs contractors would 
have been able to replace the damaged items in the bathroom for the cost it is saying it 
could. But HDI have provided this service with a costed schedule of works for the bathroom, 
detailing the work needed to repair the damaged areas of the bathroom, including materials 
needed to complete the work, such as floor tiles, wall tiles, replacement shower and 
cabinets. I have no reason to doubt the costs attached to this schedule are accurate. HDI, 
together with its contractor, would have benefited from favourable rates. 
I know Mr T has said that when the schedule of works was compiled, he hadnt selected 
things like cabinets or tiles to replace the ones previously there. And that some of the 
damaged items werent manufactured any longer. But an insurance settlement is based on 
the cost of like for like items  so HDIs costings would be based on a like for like 
replacement of what was already there, including for those things no longer manufactured. 
So, I dont think it needed Mr Ts specific selections for the bathroom. It would have been 
able to cost up its liability based on the items that were previously in place. 
Given the above, Im satisfied HDI acted fairly in relation to the settlement of £8,513.18 + 
VAT it offered in relation to the covered, damaged items in the bathroom  it has settled the 
loss based on the policy terms.
HDI has said that further costs Mr T have submitted arent for items damaged as part of the 
claim. Instead, they said there are additional items in Mr T has requested settlement for, that 
were undamaged, and were Mr Ts choice to replace. In its final response letter, HDI said 
that if Mr T had elected to use HDIs contractors, he would have received a separate invoice 
for uninsured works, for those elements. 
So, Ive considered this too. Ive reviewed the reports from various parties instructed by HDI, 
including the loss adjuster and contractor. As well as the detailed quotations from Mr T. And 
from doing so, I can see there appear to be a number of items within Mr Ts quote, that dont 
appear to have been damaged by the leak. For example, such as a full new bathroom suite.
An insurance policy is generally only designed to cover items that are damaged as part of 
the loss. So, generally anything undamaged wouldnt be replaced as part of a claim. In this 
case, I can see there were a number of items HDI said it should have been possible to 
remove and refit  such as the majority of the bathroom suite (the exception being the 
damaged shower tray and the enclosure with it), so replacements for these items werent 
required to put the damage right. If Mr T wanted to replace these items, that needed to be at 
his own cost.
Im also aware that Mr T raised concerns about the length of time it took HDI to respond to 
him, in relation to a breakdown of the bathroom quote. HDI accepted this took too long and 
apologised for this. And it offered Mr T £250 compensation in relation to this. So, Ive also 
considered this element of the complaint.
I also agree there were delays in responding to Mr Ts emails about the settlement for the 
bathroom, and the breakdown of HDIs contractors quote. I can see Mr T needed to chase 
HDI a number of times about this. And I can see how this would have been frustrating, and 
inconvenient. I am however satisfied that the £250 is a fair and reasonable payment of compensation to recognise the impact the need to keep chasing the matter had on Mr T. So, 
if HDI hasnt paid this £250 to Mr T already, it should do so. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) should pay Mr T 
the £250 compensation awarded in its final response letter of 18 August 2022, if it hasnt 
already done so. I dont require HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) to do anything more than 
this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman