DRN-4265655
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118 Money) 
is holding her liable for the debt on a loan which she says she neither applied for nor knew 
about. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in June 2022 a loan was taken out with 118 118 Money in Mrs Gs 
name for £5,000. Mrs G subsequently got in touch with 118 118 Money to let it know she 
hadnt applied for the loan. 118 118 Money investigated things and ultimately couldnt reach 
agreement with Mrs G, so she referred her complaint about 118 118 Money to us. Our 
Investigator couldnt resolve things informally, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the 
same reasons. 
In this case, my first consideration is: did Mrs G enter into this loan agreement, or was it 
done without her knowledge and consent as she alleges? 
Having considered this carefully, I think its most likely the loan was taken out in Mrs Gs 
name without her knowledge and consent, and she therefore did not enter into the loan 
agreement. I say this because the information Ive seen persuades me Mrs G was most 
likely tricked by a third-party into thinking the £5,000 that landed in her bank account marked 
as MADISON CF UK LTD were the third-partys wages. Mrs G has provided screenshots of 
messages, and Im generally satisfied the information Ive seen about this is plausible and 
persuasive  that Mrs G was in touch with someone who most likely took the loan out in her 
name without her knowledge or consent, and then tricked her into thinking it was his money 
that she should pay him. The information suggests the loan was applied for using a different 
email and phone number to Mrs Gs. I appreciate Mrs G initially said she didnt know how 
her details were compromised. But I think anything Mrs G has said contrary to this doesnt 
affect the central point here  Im satisfied from all the available information and evidence 
that its most likely the loan was taken out in Mrs Gs name without her knowledge and 
consent.
Since Im satisfied Mrs G most likely didnt apply for or agree to this loan, I dont think it 
would be fair for 118 118 Money to hold her to the terms of the loan agreement she never 
saw or agreed to. So, 118 118 Money shouldnt hold Mrs G liable for interest and charges, 
neither should there be a record of the loan on Mrs Gs credit file  so if there currently is, 
this should be removed. 
However, Im also satisfied in this case that it wouldnt be fair for 118 118 Money to pursue 
Mrs G for £2,500 of the loan funds. I say this because Mrs Gs bank statements show that 
after the loan funds landed in her account, she sent £2,500 worth of them onto an account 
she was directed to pay by the third-party. Screenshots of what I accept are most likely 
messages between Mrs G and the third-party persuade me Mrs G was tricked into paying 
this £2,500 out of her account to the third-party on the basis that it was his money, with 
Mrs G genuinely not realising the £5,000 that had landed in her account was a loan from 
118 118 Money in her name. Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair for 118 118 Money to pursue 
Mrs G for this £2,500 because she received no benefit from it. I think she acted in good faith, 
not realising she was being tricked in circumstances where I can understand why the way in 
which the loan funds appeared on her statement didnt alarm or concern her given how the 
third-party tricked her. It wouldnt be fair for Mrs G to be pursued for this £2,500 in 
circumstances like this. 
With regards to the remaining loan funds, which happen to also be £2,500, although Mrs G 
also tried to send these, or part of them, on to the third-party, ultimately this wasnt 
successful, so this £2,500 remained in Mrs Gs account. So Im satisfied that its fair for 
118 118 Money to pursue Mrs G for the balance of this portion of the £2,500 loan funds if it 
wishes to (but not under the loan agreement). In calculating the amount of this due, 
118 118 Money should take any repayments made to the loan by Mrs G to date (if any) as 
having reduced this £2,500 balance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to:
remove all interest and charges on the loan; and
remove reference to the loan from Mrs Gs credit file; and
not pursue Mrs G for £2,500 of the loan funds; and
with regards to the remaining £2,500 loan funds, take any repayments made to the 
loan by Mrs G to date (if any) as having reduced this £2,500 balance and not pursue 
Mrs G for more than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman