DRN-2978297
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not fully reimburse the money 
he transferred to fraudsters.
  
What happened
On 21 July 2021, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I explained why, based
on what I had seen so far, I was intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted to give both
parties a chance to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision below and
it forms part of this final decision;
What happened
Mr B was looking to purchase flights at short notice for two family members. He 
found a website that was offering flights. They offered the lowest fares and, 
according to Mr B, sounded promising over the phone.
Mr B wanted to pay using his credit card but the travel agent said this wouldnt be possible 
at such short notice. On 26 January 2020, before going ahead with the purchase Mr B 
made two calls to HSBC to enquire whether hed be protected if the agents turned out to 
be fraudulent. Both of HSBCs advisors said that the bank would try and help him get his 
money back if something went wrong. Later that afternoon Mr B paid a deposit of £130 to 
the travel agents.
Mr B asked for the agents ATOL number before paying the deposit and was provided 
with one  though only after the deposit was paid. It also related to another company 
which the travel agents said was their mother company.
The following day he agreed to purchase the tickets but said that hed only pay for one 
person before checking with the airline that the tickets had been booked. He made a 
payment of £515 for one ticket on 27 January 2020. The deposit was returned the 
following day. Mr B thinks this was just done to encourage him to think they were 
genuine and purchase the second ticket. However, Mr B called the airline and the tickets 
had not been booked, so he asked for a refund. The travel agent promised that a refund 
would be provided and asked him to check with his bank, but the refund never 
materialised.
Mr B, still needing to purchase flights for his family, found another online travel agent. His 
family members had already booked time off work and had been informed of the travel 
dates
 so Mr B was under pressure to arrange the flights.
Again, the second agents flights were cheaper than competitors but they would only 
accept payment by bank transfer.
Mr B says because of the timescales and his work and family commitments he went 
ahead with first paying a deposit of £200 and later the balance of £900. Again the tickets 
failed to materialise and Mr B realised hed been scammed.
On 30 January 2020, Mr B contacted HSBC to report the scams. They attempted to 
recover his money from the firms which received it, but no money remained.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances.
HSBC said that the payment to the first travel agent was a civil dispute and therefore not 
covered under the CRM Code. It agreed the payments to the second travel agent were 
covered by the CRM Code and it refunded Mr B 50% of his loss. Despite this, in its 
submissions to our service, it maintained that Mr B had ignored an effective warning, 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments and was grossly negligent 
(which are exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought Mr B ought to have 
been refunded in full under the CRM Code. They disagreed that the payment to the first 
travel agent should be considered a civil dispute and argued that the fraudulent travel 
agents had many features which made them appear genuine  so Mr B hadnt lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief. They also felt the online warnings Mr B would have seen 
before making the payments werent effective.
HSBC disagreed, in summary it said:
-Its likely a genuine travel agent would be able to accept credit card 
payments, regardless of how near the flight date was.
-There were a number of warning signs which Mr B failed to pay attention to.
-Mr B failed to carry out any checks to ensure the travel agents were genuine.
-Further warnings would be unlikely to have dissuaded Mr B from 
making the payments.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to 
the investigator and Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Service Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
customer even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
HSBC should have reimbursed Mr B under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Like the investigator Im satisfied that all the payments made by Mr B are within the scope 
of the CRM Code. HSBC have argued that Mr Bs problems with the first travel agent are a civil dispute (such disputes are excluded under the Code). Their reasoning appears to be 
based on the fact that the fraudster refunded Mr Bs initial payment of £130. But I dont 
agree this fact is determinative. It appears that this refund was provided to encourage Mr 
B to purchase the second ticket, so its likely to have been a ruse to extract a larger 
payment from an obviously sceptical Mr B. Ive also reviewed the correspondence 
between Mr B and the first agent. Of particular concern is their claim to operate under the 
ATOL number of an entirely different business. This claim doesnt appear to be true. 
Neither does it seem to be disputed that the first agent did not provide the tickets or a 
refund. So, Im persuaded that all the payments Mr B made are covered by the CRM 
Code.
However, in this case, I think HSBC has been able to establish that it may choose not 
to reimburse Mr B in full under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the 
listed exceptions to reimbursement applies in the circumstances of this case, namely 
that Mr B lacked a reasonable basis of belief in making the payments.
Though, as set out by our investigator, both fraudsters appear to have made 
reasonable attempts to mimic genuine travel agents  such as providing fairly 
professional looking booking confirmation emails, its clear Mr B had serious doubts 
about the authenticity of them.
And, when considering whether Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing the fraudsters 
to be genuine travel agents, its first necessary to establish whether Mr B actually did 
believe they were legitimate. Mr B made two calls to HSBC prior to making the first 
payment in which he attempts to establish whether he would be protected should anything 
go wrong. Im persuaded those calls are more than a reflection of Mr B being cautious, he 
doesnt appear convinced by the agent  and particularly their request to be paid by bank 
transfer only. Mr B says at the beginning of the first call:
Im looking to buy travel tickets online and the agency has asked me to make a 
bank transfer. But theres something telling me that this might not be a genuine 
sale.
And even after the two calls he had with HSBC, he was only prepared to pay for one of 
the tickets before checking whether it had actually been booked. I think this 
demonstrates considerable mistrust in the agents.
So, I dont think Mr B really did believe the first agent was genuine and even if he did, it 
would be hard to say that belief was reasonable  for essentially the same reasons as Mr 
B has expressed himself. Though he did carry out some checks on the first fraudster they 
cant have provided much reassurance  given that the ATOL number they provided to 
him didnt correspond with the name of their company.
I dont know if Mr B had the same doubts before paying the second fraudster, but I 
suspect he did. In any case, it would be very difficult to say that he held a reasonable 
basis for belief in making those payments either  given that the circumstances (including 
their refusal to receive credit card payments) were nearly identical to his dealings with the 
first agents  which he knew, or strongly suspected, were fraudsters.
Mr B recognises that the low cost of the tickets, his work and family commitments, as well 
as the short amount of time before the trip all played a role in his decision making to 
proceed with the payments. All of which only reinforces my view that he made the 
payments in the hope, rather than the belief, they were genuine and, perhaps, in the 
expectation that he might be protected if anything went wrong.As Im of the view that HSBC can rely on the lack of reasonable basis for belief 
exception under the CRM Code, it isnt necessary for me to consider whether Mr B was 
also grossly negligent  as a finding that he had been would result in the same 
outcome.
The CRM Code also requires a firm to provide an effective warning where it identifies a 
scam risk. Though, in terms of amount, the payments Mr B made were unremarkable, Im 
satisfied that he provided enough information during both calls he had with HSBC prior to 
making the first payment that it ought to have recognised a scam risk and provided an 
effective warning. Not only did Mr B explicitly identify the potential risk but he also 
described the circumstances  such as the fraudsters refusal to accept card payments  
which ought to have given HSBC cause for concern.
Mr B says of his conversations with HSBC that they varied but there were some 
reassurances. Ive listened to the calls and agree that both advisers, but particularly the 
first, could have been clearer. They imply there was a reasonable chance Mr Bs money 
would be returned should anything go wrong. The first advisor said if the recipient turned 
out to be a scam no worries, well help you dispute the transaction, well try to retrieve 
your money back. The second advisor says that any recovery is not 100% guaranteed. 
The reality, of course, is that if the recipient turned out to be a fraudster, then its likely Mr 
Bs funds would be removed quickly from the recipient account and there would be little 
chance of them being recovered. Neither advisor explained this.
In fact, the advisors didnt really warn Mr B about the payment at all  for example by 
mentioning that fraudsters pose as genuine retailers and that Mr B should always try 
and pay by credit or debit card. There was no questioning of the agents claim they 
couldnt receive a card payment because of the short notice and no attempt to ask any 
other questions which might have led Mr B to further consider the legitimacy of the 
transaction.
Given that I dont think that HSBCs advisors really provided much of a warning at all, 
Im satisfied that they didnt provide an effective warning as required by the CRM 
Code.
Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC should have done more to protect Mr B from 
financial harm and whether providing an effective warning would have had a material 
effect on preventing the scam (a factor which needs to be considered under the CRM 
Code). For essentially the same reasons as Ive already set out, I think HSBCs advisors 
should have done more in the calls. As well as explaining the risk of making the payment 
and the consequences if something went wrong, Id have expected them to tell Mr B that 
if he had any doubt about the legitimacy of the payment, he should make further enquiries 
before proceeding or not go ahead at all.
While HSBCs advisors dont go as far as to provide assurance to Mr B that hed get his 
money back, they ought to have done more to question the payments. Had that happened, 
I cant know for sure whether Mr B would have gone ahead with the payments regardless, 
so I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. Mr B had clearly contacted HSBC looking for 
reassurance about what would happen if something went wrong. Had the advisors given a 
clearer assessment of his (very slim) chances of recovering the money then I think thats 
likely to have dissuaded him from going ahead. On balance, I think that an effective 
warning and a better conversation is likely to have made a difference here.
But, its also clear from the calls that Mr B did recognise the scam risk himself and 
understood there was a chance that he wouldnt get his money back if he went ahead with the payment.
Overall then, I think HSBC should have done more to prevent the scam and, had they 
done so, that would likely have made a difference and stopped it from happening. 
However, I think Mr B made the payments with both the knowledge that the agents might 
be fraudsters and that he might not get his money back. So, I think it would be fair to make 
a deduction from any award. I think there was equal responsibility for what happened so a 
deduction of 50% would be fair.
Finally, Im satisfied that HSBC did everything it could to try and recover Mr Bs money. It 
contacted both the firms which received the money the day after he reported the scam  
but they said that no funds remained to be returned.
As Im of the view that the first two payments are covered under the provisions of the 
CRM Code and HSBC did not provide an effective warning (despite recognising a scam 
risk), Im currently of the view that Mr B should receive 50% of the £515 payment in 
addition to the £550 hes already received. As this money came from his current account 
and its not clear how he would have used it, he should receive 8% simple interest per 
year on the additional refund. Under the provisions of the CRM Code, HSBC had until 14 
February 2020 to decide whether to refund this payment  so interest should be paid 
from that date.
This would mean Mr B would receive a refund of 50% of his losses (excluding 
interest) which, for the reasons Ive set out, I think is fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
My provisional decision
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
-Refund 50% of the £515 Mr B sent to the first fraudster - £257.50
-Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount from 14 February 2020 to the 
date of settlement
HSBC agreed with the provisional decision. Mr B said that he didnt have any further 
evidence to submit. He acknowledges that he could have done further checks on the 
merchants and regrets that, due to how busy he was at the time, he wasnt more cautious. 
He thought my provisional decision was reasonable, but that HSBC could have done more to 
assist him. He pointed to the fact he contacted the bank before making the payments and 
did carry out some other checks.   
Overall Mr B said he was disappointed to be left out of pocket and felt banks should be 
doing more to protect their customers from fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how frank and thoughtful Mr B has been in his response to my provisional 
decision.  
Ultimately, theres little for me to add to the provisional decision, other than to say that my 
decision is about the facts of this case, rather than the actions of banks in general. I hope Mr 
B will agree that his own comments largely support the position Ive taken. Ive acknowledged fault on the part of HSBC but also recognised there was more that Mr B ought 
to have done (as he has done himself).
So, for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, Im still persuaded that a refund of 
50% of his losses is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
- Refund 50% of the £515 Mr B sent to the first fraudster - £257.50
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount from 14 February 2020 to the 
date of settlement
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman