DRN-4021653
The complaint
Mr J has complained that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him a whole of life and critical illness 
cover in 1993.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I apologise for the time taken to reach this final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr J will be disappointed by my decision, I 
agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr J met with an adviser in April 1993. ReAssure has taken responsibility for the 
sale. The adviser recorded that Mr J did not feel he particularly required life 
coverhe requested a policy which provided him with £100,000 cover, specifically 
because of the critical illness cover. The adviser recommended a whole-of-life and 
critical illness policy. Mr J was single with no dependants at the time, so ReAssure 
has agreed that Mr J didnt need or require life cover and has offered to refund the 
premium paid with interest. I think that is fair as I dont find life cover was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr J in 1993.  
Mr J complains that he shouldnt have been sold critical illness cover either. Although 
Mr J has said he had critical illness policies at the time, I havent seen any evidence 
that he did. He did have endowment policies and I fully accept that he had benefits 
through his employers pension scheme which included permanent ill health and 
injury benefits. But this was tied to Mr Js employment and in any event isnt the 
same as critical illness cover, which will provide a lump sum when an eligible claim is 
made. I find that recommending cover for critical illness was reasonable, and cover 
wasnt being duplicated.
It is apparent from the details recorded by the adviser at the time of the sale that this 
was discussed, and Mr J wanted this protection. Mr J would have benefitted from the 
cover provided by his policy if hed fallen ill with an illness listed in the policy. I agree 
that there was no obligation to have this cover, but Im not persuaded that the 
recommendation was unsuitable or contrary to Mr Js requirements. I havent 
disregarded Mr Js representations but having considered his circumstances and the 
documentation from the time Im satisfied that the recommendation was a suitable 
one.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to refund the cost of premiums for the life cover 
with net interest at 8%. I find this offer was fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should refund Mr J in accordance with the above 
offer. If the refund hasnt already been made, it should re-calculate the loss to the date of 
settlement. 
I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman