DRN-2964097
The complaint
Mr C complains British Gas Insurance Limited didnt properly investigate and repair an 
intermittent hot water problem under his home emergency insurance policy, and that it gave 
him poor customer service in its handling of his complaint about that. 
What happened
Mr C had a HomeCare policy with British Gas, which he renewed each year. The policy 
provided cover for his boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair basis. 
The boiler was located in an annexe of Mr Cs home, which he rented out to a tenant. 
Mr C says that from 2014 the annexe had an ongoing intermittent problem with the hot water 
supply. He says this caused him inconvenience, as well as causing his tenant a great deal of 
distress and inconvenience. Mr C says he told British Gas engineers about this hot water 
problem at the annual services in 2014 and 2018 as well as various other times, but they 
took no notice and blamed scale in the water pipes. Mr C says he replaced the boiler in 
October 2018 and the hot water problem immediately stopped, so he thought it must have 
been caused by the old boiler and British Gas hadnt properly investigated or fixed it.
Mr C complained to British Gas about this, but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said its 
engineer attended a breakdown appointment in February 2018 and noted the issue wasnt 
boiler related and recommended the pipes be looked at by another business - but that wasnt 
something covered by Mr Cs policy because pipes to the shower would fall under plumbing 
and drains cover, which Mr C didnt have. And it said an annual service in July 2018 noted 
the boiler, radiators and hot water were all working well and that there were no further 
breakdowns reported before Mr C cancelled the policy later that year. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C contacted our service. He told us British Gas hadnt properly 
investigated or fixed his boiler related hot water problems between 2014 and 2018. And that 
it hadnt handled his complaint well because it didnt provide a proper complaints procedure, 
didnt escalate the complaint to a senior manager as Mr C asked, didnt carry out an 
inspection as Mr C asked, didnt try to call Mr C as it said it had, incorrectly sent 
correspondence to the annexe instead of his own address, and took twelve weeks to 
respond to his complaint. Mr C wanted British Gas to put things right by acknowledging its 
poor service and complaint handling, refunding the policy premiums hed paid, and paying 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She thought British Gas call out record 
showed it completed an annual service each year and attended and repaired the issues 
Mr C reported that were covered under the policy. And that while British Gas could have 
handled Mr Cs complaint better, that hadnt affected or delayed his complaint. She thought 
British Gas had likely been addressing Mr Cs correspondence to Mr Cs annexe instead of 
his home address since the policy started, but hadnt seen that Mr C had asked British Gas 
to change this or that it had caused him any detriment. 
Mr C thought our investigator hadnt looked into his complaint properly. He reiterated his 
complaint points and provided comments from his own plumbing and heating engineer. He 
also said that when he was talking to British Gas in 2018 about getting a quote for a new 
boiler, there was what he considered to be a scam by its engineers which he saw to be 
evidence of concealment and poor practice by British Gas.
As Mr C disagreed with our investigator, his complaint came to me for consideration.
I asked British Gas for its thoughts on Mr Cs testimony, the comments from his engineer, 
and an entry on its call out record in February 2018 noting the shower wasnt mixing 
properly with only cold water coming through, and advising it should be looked at by another 
business. I also asked Mr C for more information and evidence about the replacement of his 
boiler.  
Having received this information from Mr C and British Gas, I issued my provisional decision 
on 29 June 2021 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and Ill explain why. But 
before I do, Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment made 
by either Mr C or British Gas. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure both 
parties that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our 
service. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
boiler sales scam
I think its helpful to firstly address what Mr C sees to be a scam on the part of British Gas 
engineers. Mr C says hes previously complained to British Gas about this and says its 
evidence of concealment and poor practice. Other than Mr Cs testimony, Ive not been 
provided with evidence that Mr C has raised this particular matter with British Gas in either 
this or a previous complaint. In any case, I dont think this is something I can consider 
further. 
I say that because our service doesnt have a free hand to look into every complaint brought 
to us. Instead we must follow the Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its handbook. These are known as the DISP rules 
and they set out, amongst other things, what types of complaints our service can look into 
and under what circumstances. DISP rule 2.3 sets out the kind of activities we can consider 
complaints about. Providing a quote for a new boiler isnt one of the regulated activities listed 
in DISP 2.3. So I think the DISP rules mean I cant consider what might have happened 
when Mr C was talking to British Gas about getting a quote for a new boiler. 
not properly investigating or fixing the old boiler
The evidence is somewhat limited here because British Gas has confirmed it now only keeps 
contact notes for twelve months, so it no longer has records of calls for the period in 
question. But Ive considered the evidence I do have. 
I have Mr Cs testimony that he raised hot water problems with British Gas but was always 
told it was scale problems which werent covered by his policy. To support this, Mr C has 
provided a British Gas visit sheet from July 2014, on which he made a handwritten note at 
the time saying scheme doesnt cover scale problems. I also have the opinion of Mr Cs 
own heating and plumbing engineer from January 2021 that says I have checked the hot 
water and there doesnt seem to any [sic] indication the pipe work is scaled up as the boiler 
is running smoothly and consistently with a good flow rate. Weighed against that, I have British Gas call out record which sets out when its engineers 
attended between 2014 and the policy ending in 2018. The record includes visit dates and a 
brief note of the visit. I also have British Gas comments that its impossible to be sure what 
the 2014 handwritten note was referring to  that it could, for example, refer to what was 
covered under the policy, what the main exclusions were or what was a common problem 
with Mr Cs type of system. And that the call out note in February 2018 wasnt to do with 
scaling but because there was a fault with Mr Cs shower which wasnt covered under the 
policy and a plumber would be required. 
Mr C has given consistent testimony that he raised the intermittent hot water problem at 
visits in 2014 and 2018 as well as other times, but British Gas took no notice. And British 
Gas says it no longer has call records for the period in question. So I think this is why there 
is very little documentary evidence of Mr C raising hot water problems with British Gas. And 
while I acknowledge British Gas says its engineers always left Mr Cs boiler in working order, 
Mr Cs has consistently said the hot water problem was intermittent. So it didnt happen all 
the time and I dont think thats inconsistent with what British Gas says. But Im persuaded 
by Mr Cs 2014 handwritten note and his consistent testimony. Taking all this into 
consideration, I think that on the balance of probabilities its more likely than not that Mr C 
tried to raise this problem with British Gas but was told it was because of scaling in the pipes 
which wasnt covered by his policy.
The opinion of Mr Cs own engineer is that theres no indication the pipes are scaled, and 
British Gas says it has nothing with which to dispute this. Mr C has provided evidence this 
boiler was replaced in October 2018 and has consistently said the hot water problems 
stopped after this. If the problem was due to scaling as I think its likely British Gas told Mr C, 
then Id expect there to still be evidence of scaling or for Mr Cs new boiler to have problems. 
But Mr Cs own engineer says theres no evidence of scaling and the new boiler is working 
well. Based on this, I think its more likely than not that the hot water problems were to do 
with the old boiler, and not scaling which wouldnt be covered under the policy. And Ive not 
seen that British Gas took steps to investigate this as it should have under the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think British Gas didnt investigate Mr Cs hot water 
problem as it should have under his home emergency insurance policy. So I need to think 
about what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right.
I know Mr C wants British Gas to refund the premiums hes paid. But I dont think that would 
be fair. I say that because Mr C had the benefit of the protection provided by the policy and 
he made use of this over the years with British Gas carrying out various other repairs. 
Instead, I think British Gas should compensate Mr C for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused him by not investigating this hot water problem as I think it should 
have. Mr C says his tenant has also been caused a great deal of inconvenience and 
distress, as they were affected by the hot water problem and were vulnerable with significant 
health issues. Im very sorry to hear this. But I should be clear here that Mr Cs tenant isnt a 
policy holder and so isnt eligible to complain about the policy under the DISP rules. Since 
Mr Cs tenant is not an eligible complainant, I cant consider any distress or inconvenience 
they were caused. 
But I can consider unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr C was caused by British 
Gas. And Im satisfied he was. Mr C says he realised British Gas was wrong about scaling 
being the cause of the hot water problem when he replaced the boiler in October 2018, and I 
can see he complained to British Gas around that time. I think Mr C would have been 
frustrated and disappointed to realise British Gas hadnt investigated the hot water problem as it should have. And this has continued over an extended period of time, since he realised 
in October 2018. I think compensation of £350 is a fair reflection of his extended distress.  
complaint handling
Mr C has complained about British Gas handling of his complaint. He says it didnt provide a 
proper complaints procedure, didnt escalate the complaint to a senior manager as Mr C 
asked, didnt accept Mr Cs invitations to carry out an inspection, didnt try to call Mr C as it 
said it had, and took twelve weeks to respond to his complaint. Mr C also says British Gas 
wrote to the wrong address during this time by writing to the annexe instead of his own 
address.
But complaint handling isnt an activity listed in DISP 2.3. And I think most of the particular 
points Mr C has raised about British Gas handling of his complaint arent sufficiently linked 
to it carrying out an underlying regulated activity. So I think the DISP rules mean I cant 
consider how British Gas handled Mr Cs complaint.
The only one of these points I think I can consider is British Gas writing to the annexe 
instead of Mr Cs address. I say that because British Gas has provided policy 
correspondence going back to 2015, and its all addressed to the annexe. So I think Mr Cs 
policy was likely set up this way and therefore this point is sufficiently linked to the underlying 
regulated activity. Having said that, Im not intending to make an award of compensation for 
this. Thats because even if I accepted British Gas made an error regarding Mr Cs 
correspondence address, Ive not seen that this affected Mr Cs ability to make use of the 
policy, or that it caused him any financial loss or significant distress or inconvenience. And 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr C asked British Gas to correct the address.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments, though he said this 
was assuming British Gas also accepted the provisional decision. Mr C also asked for it to 
be noted that the scam hed mentioned wasnt part of his complaint to our service and had 
been addressed by British Gas at the time  hed only mentioned it here as background.
British Gas didnt provide any response to my provisional decision. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. While I acknowledge what Mr C says about 
mentioning the scam as background information, I dont think that changes the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision. 
British Gas didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide any further evidence or 
comments for me to consider. 
Taking all this into account, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.   
Putting things rightBritish Gas should pay Mr C £350 compensation for the unnecessary distress it caused him.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, British Gas Insurance Limited 
should pay Mr C £350 compensation for the unnecessary distress it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman