DRN-3022715
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (Berkshire) 
unfairly charged her an addition premium when she changed the car that was insured under 
her motor insurance policy held with it.
Miss M has also complained that she paid for a full year of insurance but was unable to 
benefit from the policy following her car being written off.
What happened
Miss M took out a motor insurance policy with Berkshire. Unfortunately, Miss Ms car was 
damaged beyond economical repair and following a claim, a settlement was made under her 
insurance policy.
Miss M has explained that following her car being written off she was charged the full year 
premium. Miss M also received an email from Berkshire explaining that she could replace 
the car insured under the policy at no additional cost. Miss M added a new car to her policy, 
but Berkshire charged her an additional premium despite sending the email Miss M has 
referred to. 
Berkshire agreed that the email it had sent Miss M was mis-leading and that an error had 
been made. But it also said the additional premium was reflective of the risk presented by 
changing the insured car, and that the additional premium was still chargeable. It did refund 
the £30 administration fee in recognition of the mistake it had made.
Our Investigator considered Miss Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld he said that 
the misleading email had caused Miss M distress and that it should pay her an additional 
£75 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Berkshire disagreed with our Investigators view of Miss Ms complaint, so it has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by either Berkshire or 
Miss M. What is in dispute is whether Berkshire has offered a fair outcome following the 
mistake it made.
I have considered Miss Ms comments about being charged for the full year of insurance 
when her car was written off just part way through that insurance period. But most, if not all 
motor insurance policies work in this same way. The insured person agrees to an amount 
they will pay in return for the insurer taking on the risks associated with the policy. While the 
policy usually covers the insured party for a full year at that agreed price the insurer is 
considered to have met its obligations under the policy when a total loss claim is met, and 
therefore the premium is due in full. This is clear in Miss Ms policy terms and conditions 
where it states:
If the insurer agrees to settle your claim on this basis, you still owe the full annual
premium as the insurer will have met its responsibilities to you under the policy.
With this in mind I think Berkshire has acted fairly when charging Miss M the full premium 
associated with her original policy.
Its not unusual for a motor insurance premium to change when the risk being insured 
changes. In this case the insured car has changed. The terms of Miss Ms motor insurance 
policy, like that of most other providers explain this, so I dont think the additional premium 
Berkshire applied to Miss Ms insurance was unfair either.
However, the email sent to Miss M was clear. It stated:
If you look to add a new vehicle to the policy be advised that the policy will run as normal 
until it is due to expire on 01/10/21 and there will be no further premium for you to pay 
I think Miss M reasonably interpreted this email to mean she would not have to pay any 
further amount when she changed the car insured under the policy. 
Miss M has explained that she feels she should receive a full refund of her policy premiums. 
But I dont think this would be fair. Miss M has made a claim under the policy for the loss of 
her car and as Ive explained above, the terms and conditions of her policy state the full 
premium is due.
Berkshire has made an error by leading Miss M to believe no further premium would be due 
when she replaced the car on the policy. I think Miss M has suffered a loss of expectation 
due to the error Berkshire has made and I dont think the £30 refund of the administration fee 
fairly reflects the level of upset it has caused her.
Putting things right
To put things right I require Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to pay Miss M 
£75 compensation in addition to the £30 it has already refunded.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Berkshire to put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman