DRN-3375061
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC when his deputies (Mr B 
and Mrs L) (the Deputies), appointed by the Court of Protection, asked it to open an account.
What happened
The Court of Protection appointed Mr B and Mrs L as deputies to make decisions on behalf 
of Mr C in relation to his property and affairs. The Deputies were appointed in August 
2019. The Deputies made an appointment to attend a branch of Barclays in January 2020. 
They say they took the relevant identification documents with them and completed the 
forms they were given.
One of the Deputies, Mrs L, says that when she attended the branch she was asked to 
open an account, in her own name, before the application could proceed. She says she 
was told she needed to do this because she was not an existing Barclays customer.
The Deputies were told they would hear further in ten days time after the details had been 
processed by a central team. They say they heard nothing further. The Deputies 
complained to Barclays about what happened. The Deputies said that because of the delay 
Mr C has incurred additional and unnecessary professional fees of £433.56.
Barclays investigated the complaint. It agreed that thered been delays but it said the 
Deputies hadnt presented the correct identification and verification documentation when 
they attended at the branch. That was why theyd asked Mrs L to open an account, using 
its online channel, in her own name before proceeding. It had applied for a dispensation 
but that had been declined. The Deputies said the account would be used to receive 
benefit money and so a benefit letter would be required. It offered £75 by way of apology 
for the delays.
The Deputies did not accept what Barclays said. They complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think it was fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to cover professional fees for a service which had been provided to Mr C in a 
personal capacity. He noted that Barclays had admitted there were delays and had offered 
£75 by way of apology. He didnt think it should have to do anything more.
The Deputies didnt agree. They said that our investigator had failed to understand the 
position of a Deputy and the nature of the dispute. The Deputies stood in the shoes of 
Mr C and it was his loss and inconvenience which required compensation.
Because Mr Cs Deputies didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The identification and address verification documents
Ive looked at the information on Barclays website. There is a webpage 
entitled How do I open an account if Ive been appointed as a Deputy by 
the Court of Protection. There is then a link to a page which gives further 
information about setting up third party access. There are several 
different types of third-party access  including Court of Protection Order 
and Appointeeship. Each of these has different requirements.
For a Court of Protection Order, only the appointed representatives need to 
attend the branch. They need to bring the Order with them and they need to 
bring ID and proof of address documentation. Barclays procedures also 
make clear that for a Court of Protection Order the donor (in this case Mr C) 
doesnt need to provide ID or address verification, provided that the Order 
has been produced.
Acceptable forms of documentation for the Deputies is listed on the webpage.
The Deputies presented the Court of Protection Order to Barclays and the 
staff member tried to open the account using the relevant procedures. But, 
she was unable to open the account. She says that the Deputies didnt have 
sufficient ID documents to enable her to open profiles for them. Ill comment 
on that further below.
In order to try to get around this the staff member says she asked Mrs L to 
open an account in her own name using an online system. The online 
system used a process to electronically verify the applicant. The staff 
member says she tried to import the information from the online application 
into the Deputyship application - but the system kept generating errors. She 
contacted a central team and asked for a dispensation to allow the account 
opening to proceed.
Ive looked at the response to the request for dispensation. That response 
asked the staff member to follow the appointeeship process to open an 
account with a court of protection order. It then indicated that the client 
would have to provide ID and verification documents and the customer will 
have one or more benefits letters. If the beneficiary is not present then a 
BF57 would be required. The response also said that the Deputies could 
request documentation for the customer from DWP, GP. Care home letter 
can be used as address verification.
Having considered this information, it appears that the response confused 
an Appointeeship with a Deputyship. An Appointeeship is where someone 
has been appointed through the DWP to manage benefits. That didnt apply 
here. So, Im currently satisfied, on balance, Barclays didnt follow its own 
procedures when it said there was a requirement to get ID and address 
verification documents for Mr C.
ID and Address Verification for the Deputies
Barclays says that the Deputies didnt have sufficient ID and address 
verification with them when they attended the branch on 21 January 2020. 
Barclays hasnt been able to say what documentation was provided or why 
it wasnt suitable. It says it no longer has records to show this.I asked the Deputies to tell us what ID and address verification they 
had provided. They responded to say:
I believe Mrs L produced a copy of her passport and utility bill. I (Mr B) did 
not have to produce any ID as an existing customer.
Having considered this response, I cannot be certain what documentation 
was provided. If Mrs L had brought her passport and utility bill, that wouldve 
been satisfactory for the purposes of the procedures. So, it is unclear to me 
why Barclays didnt find this acceptable and why it asked her to open a new 
account. The new account was opened, using the online process, and Mrs L 
got the documentation for this the following day.
Ive noted that at the time, there didnt appear to be any issues raised 
about ID or address verification for Mr B.
Having thought about what happened, Im persuaded that if Barclays was 
able to satisfy itself about Mrs Ls ID and address  so that it was able to 
open a new account for her in her own name  it shouldnt have required 
anything further from her in order to open the Deputyship Account. And for 
that reason, I dont think it acted fairly or reasonably when it refused the 
dispensation sought and delayed opening the account.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
As a result of what happened, the account wasnt opened until over three 
months after the Deputies had first attended the branch.
When considering a complaint of this nature our service can only award 
compensation to an eligible complainant. That is defined in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook in the DISP rules. These say that the 
eligible complainant here is Mr C. So, I can only look at any financial loss, 
distress or inconvenience Mr C himself has suffered as a result of what 
happened.
Mr C is unable to make decisions for himself in relation to his property and 
affairs. Thats why the Court of Protection appointed Mrs L and Mr B as his 
Deputies. The Order appointing the Deputies states that Mrs L is entitled to 
be reimbursed for her reasonable expenses and Mr B is entitled to receive 
fixed costs for the general management of Mr Cs affairs. The fixed costs 
allowable are set out in a Practice Direction from the Court of Protection 
issued in December 2017.
Mr B says the costs of the application to Barclays were wasted costs and he 
says Mr C is entitled to receive full reimbursement for these fees. The fees 
are £433.56. Mr C paid these fees on 13 March 2020.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said here. Because of the delays the 
account wasnt opened until 29 April 2020  which was just over three 
months after the initial request. Had Barclays followed its own procedures, 
I think the account would have been opened much earlier and without the 
need for additional visits or correspondence.Ive looked at the details of the costs set out on the invoice. These costs 
were incurred on 21 and 22 January 2020. So, they relate to the visit to 
Barclays referred to above and associated activity the next day. Mr B says it 
was necessary to make a further attendance in person after these dates to 
make arrangements to get the account opened. The costs associated with 
that subsequent attendance are not included in the invoice.
So, in these circumstances, Ive decided that it is fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to reimburse Mr C for the wasted costs of £433.56 which 
he incurred together with 8% simple interest on this amount from the date 
when the invoice was paid until the date of settlement. I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the 
subsequent attendance because that attendance did result in the account 
being opened and for that reason Im satisfied it cannot fairly be considered 
as a wasted cost.
Ive also considered whether Mr C experienced any inconvenience or 
distress here. His Deputies werent able to open an account in a timely 
manner to manage his affairs. I think that wouldve caused him some 
inconvenience. Barclays has offered to pay him £75 by way of apology for 
the delays caused. I think Barclays should be required to increase this 
amount to £100 as compensation for the inconvenience Mr C experienced 
here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
I intend to require it to:
Pay Mr C £433.56 together with 8%* simple interest on this amount 
calculated from 13 March 2020 until the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr C £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he 
experienced when Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the opening of a 
Deputyship account for him.
* If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr C, it should tell him how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The Deputies for Mr C responded to my provisional decision. They said that they accepted 
the provisional decision.
Barclays also responded to my provisional decision. It said it agreed with my findings and 
the suggested redress.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive noted that the Deputies for Mr C and Barclays have accepted my provisional decision. In 
these circumstances, I have no reason to change my view about how this complaint should 
be resolved. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, Ive decided 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
I now require it to take the following actions:
Pay Mr C £433.56 together with 8%* simple interest on this amount 
calculated from 13 March 2020 until the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr C £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he 
experienced when Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the opening of a 
Deputyship account for him.
* If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr C, it should tell him how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman