DRN-3558190
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc havent refunded him for transfers made from his 
account which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Between 23 September 2021 and 24 September 2021, three online transfers totalling £1,448 
were made from Mr Ts bank account to an unrecognised third party. Mr T said he was using 
his mobile phone on 23 September 2021 before he went to bed, but it had stopped working 
the following morning. He discovered that funds had been removed from his account when 
he tried a pay a bill and his payment was declined. 
Barclays declined Mr Ts claim as they couldnt identify any compromise to his account or 
details which would allow a new beneficiary to be added from his banking app. They 
explained doing so would require knowledge of his phone password, mobile banking 
passcode and card details. And since Mr T told them that he hadnt divulged these details 
and he hadnt noticed anything unusual leading up to the transactions, they wouldnt be 
refunding him.
Mr T was also unhappy that Barclays didnt respond to his claim within the timescales given 
and his direct debits werent paid when he was told theyd be honoured while the claim was 
ongoing.
Barclays accepted they didnt contact Mr T regarding his claim as quickly as they wouldve 
liked and there was a short delay. They agreed they were unclear about the direct debits, 
and they shouldve explained the direct debits would be paid if there were sufficient funds 
available. They apologised and offered Mr T £25 compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that 
Mr T had authorised the disputed transactions so felt Barclays acted fairly in holding him 
liable. He asked Barclays to increase the compensation amount from £25 to £100 for the 
delay in dealing with Mr Ts claim and the impact caused by the unclear information given.
Barclays agreed with the investigators recommendations. But Mr T disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules, Barclays can hold Mr T liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Ive looked at the technical evidence provided by Barclays. It shows that Mr Ts account was 
accessed using the same mobile phone device used to log on to the account and carry out 
genuine activity. It also shows that the access to Mr Ts mobile banking app was made by 
passcode. So, Im satisfied the disputed transfers out of Mr Ts account were authenticated.
But this alone isnt enough to say that Mr T is liable for the transactions. I also need to be 
satisfied that based on the evidence, its likely that Mr T made the transfers himself or 
otherwise authorised them.
As explained above, Im satisfied the disputed transfers were carried out on Mr Ts genuine 
mobile phone device. This must mean that whoever made the transactions needed access 
to both Mr Ts mobile phone and his online banking credentials.
Mr T has confirmed that he was using his mobile phone device before he went to bed on 23 
September 2021, so it was still in his possession when the disputed transactions were 
carried out. He accessed his banking app using a passcode which he has told us no one 
else but him knows. He hasnt written it down anywhere as he knows it by memory. He also 
knows his card details which hasnt been written down anywhere. He says that no one else 
has access to his card apart from his wife.
He also doesnt have any recollections of any phishing calls, emails, text messages or 
voicemails around the time of the disputed transactions asking for his information. He said 
he received a suspicious text message regarding a delivery, but this was after the disputed 
transactions took place. He cant recall downloading anything on his mobile phone or 
installing any apps from the app store. He didnt notice anything unusual with his mobile 
phone and it was performing as expected until the morning of 24 September 2021. Hes also 
told us that he wasnt tricked into making these transfers by a scammer.
Given what Mr T has told us, its difficult to understand how anyone else couldve carried out 
the disputed transactions without his authority, as from what hes said, he had his phone in 
his possession and no one else but him knew his online banking credentials.
Mr T believes that his mobile phone may have been hacked. Ive thought about this, but I 
dont think its very likely. I say this because Mr T has explained the mobile phone repairer 
said there was an update issue with his mobile phone which was resolved with a factory 
reset. There was no suggestion of a possible hack or compromise of his mobile phone, so 
overall, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that Mr Ts mobile phone was 
hacked. 
In any case, even if Mr Ts mobile phone was somehow compromised, it still doesnt explain 
how the fraudster discovered Mr Ts passcode to access the banking app. 
The online banking audit report shows that the transfers were completed from the same IP 
address that Mr T used prior to, and after, the disputed transactions. Its also the same IP 
address Mr T used to register his new mobile phone with Barclays. I think its unlikely that a 
fraudster wouldve carried out the transactions from Mr Ts location. 
The first disputed transfer was completed at 11.14pm for £400 on 23 September 2021. The 
second disputed transfer didnt take place until 12.20am for £800 on 24 September 2021. 
The third disputed transfer took place a minute later at 12.21am for £248.
I dont think its likely that a fraudster would wait for over an hour after the first transaction to 
transfer out more funds from Mr Ts account. If a random third party had full access to Mr Ts 
account, I think theyd act more quickly to move money out of the account and maximise 
gain before Mr T could discover the fraudulent activity and place a block on the account.Taking everything into account and on balance, I think the evidence points to Mr T having 
authorised the transfers. So, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in holding him liable.
Barclays have already accepted they gave Mr T unclear information about his direct debits, 
and they didnt contact Mr T about his claim as quickly as they said they would. They 
apologised for the poor service given to Mr T which is what Id expect them to do.
Ive considered the impact of these customer service issues on Mr T to decide a fair amount 
of compensation. Like the investigator, I dont think Barclays offer of £25 compensation 
goes far enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T.
Mr T has told us that he wouldnt have been able to make funds available if Barclays had 
given him clear information about the direct debits. So, Mr T wouldve still missed his direct 
debit payments even if Barclays were clearer. Mr T had to contact all the merchants to 
explain what had happened, but he wouldve still had to take these steps as he didnt have 
the funds to pay the direct debits.
That said, Mr T has explained that he was caused stress and inconvenience by the customer 
service issues hes experienced. I agree it wouldve been frustrating and worrying for Mr T to 
be given incorrect information. He also had to chase Barclays to request for updates as he 
wasnt contacted within the timescales given. I think this wouldve caused him unnecessary 
frustration and inconvenience.
Taking this into account, I think £100 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation under 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr T £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman