DRN-4449875
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 23 April 2023 Mrs D took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands for her dog. The 
policy doesnt cover illnesses which first show signs or symptoms within the first 14 days of 
the policy term (the waiting period). It also doesnt cover pre-existing conditions.
On 22 May 2023 Mrs D took her dog to the vet because of a cyst on his tail. She made a 
claim for the cost of the treatment. Red Sands declined the claim on the basis that it was a 
pre-existing condition as Mrs Ds vet had recorded it as a reoccurrence of an earlier cyst. 
The vet later confirmed that the two cysts werent linked. Red Sands then declined the claim 
on the ground that the dog had developed the cyst within the first 14 days of the policy. In 
doing so it relied on the vets note on 22 May 2023 that the cyst had been there over past 
few weeks.
Mrs D didnt agree. She thought the reference to past few weeks meant in the last two 
weeks which would be after the waiting period under her policy had ended. 
As Red Sands didnt change its decision, Mrs D brought a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He 
didnt think Red Sands had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
As Mrs D didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs D. She took out the 
policy to ensure she was covered financially in situations such as the one she found herself 
in. So it must have been a big disappointment to find that she wasnt actually covered after 
all.
Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover an illness that occurred or showed symptoms in the first 14 
days of the policy. This is a common exclusion in pet insurance policies and we dont think 
its unreasonable. That means Mrs D wouldnt be covered for an illness that occurred or 
showed symptoms on or before 6 May 2023.
Red Sands says that the treatment costs Mrs D is claiming for are most likely for an illness 
that showed symptoms in the first 14 days of the policy, namely a cyst on her tail. 
The issue for me to decide is whether Red Sands treated Mrs D fairly and reasonably in 
coming to that conclusion.
In order to reach a decision Ive considered the vets evidence carefully. The vets notes for 
22 May 2023 state:
Recurrence of tail head cyst, over past few weeks has been filling and then rupturing. About 
2.5cm diameter. Sebaceous material able to extract but very swollen/thick. Adv cleaning with 
dilute salty water and hot compresses to reduce swelling but INI at 10 days may need to 
remove under GA.
Its not disputed that the cyst was diagnosed by the vet outside the 14-day waiting period. 
But my understanding is that sebaceous cysts are normally slow-growing and can start quite 
small whereas this one had reached 2.5cm in diameter. It also sounds as though this one 
had been filling and then rupturing more than once. Taking all this into account I think it was 
reasonable for Red Sands to take the view that the cyst had more likely than not started to 
develop during Mrs Ds waiting period.
So I dont think Red Sands treated Mrs D fairly in relying on this exclusion to decline her 
claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman