DRN-3632931
The complaint
Mr W complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr W was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in August 2018. He borrowed £10,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 48 months. Mr W repaid this loan in 2019.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed to lend. It called Mr W to 
discuss his income and expenditure. It also used Office of National Statistics data to 
calculate his living expenses. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out his credit 
commitments. It asked Mr W for his payslips in order to validate his monthly income. Those 
checks suggested Mr W had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan 
repayments. 
Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ws financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Mr W 
had a current account, another guarantor loan, a communications account and a credit card. 
I can see that at the time Mr W asked for this loan, he was meeting all of his credit 
repayments when they fell due and overall didnt have too much that UK Credit ought to 
have been too concerned about from what was on the search.
Mr W told UK Credit that he was going to use the loan for debt consolidation and told it what 
he was going to pay off, this being the other guarantor loan and his credit card. I think it is 
reasonable for UK Credit to rely on what he has said here. I can see that by doing this Mr W 
would reduce his monthly payment to credit, but at the same time extend the amount of time 
he would repay credit by several months and add an additional amount of just over £1000 to 
his overall debt. I dont think at this stage, on balance, that this additional debt was 
unmanageable for Mr W or that it ought to have caused UK Credit to either find out more or 
not give him the loan.
Mr W told UK Credit that he contributed about £250 to the household. It then added around 
£690 in living expenses based on ONS data. It added the loan repayment and could see that 
after it did this and deducted these costs from Mr Ws income, he had enough disposable 
income to comfortably afford the loan. In the circumstances, as I have already described, on 
balance, I think the loan was sustainably affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr Ws financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate 
and didnt suggest that Mr W was facing any current problems in managing his finances. I 
think UK Credit was entitled to rely on what Mr W said about his finances, and what he 
intended to use the loan for. And that information suggested that he would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was 
wrong to give the loan to Mr W.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr Ws representatives responded to say it had received the 
provisional decision but did not provide any further comments. UK Credit responded and 
said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, so I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman