DRN-2019444
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that the late Mr B took out (jointly 
with his wife) on the advice of Age Partnership Wealth Management Limited (APWM) in 
2012. Mrs B later died, so the mortgage became Mr Bs alone. When he died, it became a 
liability of his estate. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold. The complaint 
has been brought by the executor of Mr Bs estate.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words, and rounding the figures involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
In 2012, Mr B and his late wife took out a lifetime mortgage of £29,000, with a reserve of 
£25,000, with Aviva on advice from APWM. The terms of the mortgage provide that no 
monthly repayments are required. The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the property is 
sold voluntarily, or if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their 
death. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid, even if that is after the death of the second borrower. All of this means that if 
the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a significant balance to be repaid. 
However, a no negative equity guarantee means that if the eventual selling price of the 
property is less that the outstanding balance, the lender forgoes the shortfall.
The executor complained that the mortgage had been mis-sold. APWM rejected the 
complaint, prompting the executor to refer it to us whereupon the investigator who looked 
into didnt recommend it be upheld. 
The executor asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs B were 
consumers, and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Following Mrs Bs death, Mr B became sole eligible complainant, and then following his 
death, the eligibility to complain vested in his estate. The rules say that a complaint may be 
brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible 
complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, the executor is bringing the complaint on 
the estates behalf.
But I must explain that, although the executor is representing Mr Bs estate, it is Mr B who 
was APWMs customer at the time of his death. The executors role is to bring the complaint 
on the estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or 
accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle the executor to air her 
own grievances about APWM, because she is not its customer; her role is limited to putting 
forward the estates complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the time) and considered generally whether APWM did anything 
wrong when the mortgage was taken out. If the available evidence is incomplete and/or 
contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, 
on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil 
cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2012. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; But its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections (or, as here, the testimony of others who werent present at, or involved in, the 
sale) at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate 
or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is 
inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise had identified specific financial objectives. The fact-find 
recorded that Mr and Mrs B had a second property plus around £30,000 in savings (neither 
of which they wanted to disturb) and a monthly disposable income of about £200. That 
suggests to me that Mr and Mrs B were in need of some form of borrowing if they were to be 
able to realise their stated objectives.
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Mr and Mrs B were both recorded as retired and were on a level of 
retirement income that was higher than their regular outgoings by only a relatively modest 
amount. It shouldnt be assumed that they would have been accepted for another traditional 
mortgage, given their age. 
This, combined with my earlier finding that some borrowing was necessary (given they 
werent inclined to use their savings or sell their other property), meant that equity release 
(which required no monthly repayment) was probably the only viable option for 
Mr and Mrs B, given the circumstances recorded at the time. 
Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr and Mrs B subsequently changed 
their minds about what theyd do with the money, but APWMs duty was to give suitable 
advice, which Im satisfied it did. APWM couldnt insist they follow every aspect of the advice 
it had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor Mr and Mrs Bs behaviour after the sale to 
ensure they did what theyd said they were going to do.
Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was 
arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time. For the 
reasons set out, above, I dont find this mortgage to have been mis-sold.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman