DRN-4520682
The complaint
Mr H complains about The Co-operative Bank Plc failing to reverse transactions and forcing 
overdrafts on him. Also, not providing him with statements on the accounts he held with 
them. 
What happened
Mr H says he held several different accounts with Co-op a number of years ago.
Mr H is in a difficult situation. He says Co-op failed to reverse transactions and forced 
overdrafts on him. But without the statements, he cant provide information for these 
allegations to be investigated.
Mr H requested Co-op send him statements for all the accounts he held. However, because 
of their data retention policy which means they only keep records for up to seven years, Co-
op dont have any statements for Mr Hs closed accounts.  
After complaining to Co-op Mr H escalated his complaint to our service. Regarding their 
inability to send him statements, he believes Co-op have disobeyed him and their failure to 
provide him with the information he needs is unjust and illegal.
Our investigator said banks arent obliged to hold statement records for longer than seven 
years and there is insufficient evidence to say that Co-op have done anything wrong.
As Mr H remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that our service cant interrogate business systems or tell a business to 
find data they say they dont have. Also, we cant tell a business to alter their policies, 
procedures or systems, including the data and information they retain. I say this because we 
arent the regulator of the financial services industry and businesses can make commercial 
decisions. In addition, our service doesnt have the power to issue fines or penalties for 
complaints about data retention, but complainants can refer allegations of breaches to the 
Information Commissioner's Office (ICO).
I have empathy for Mr Hs situation. He believes hes been treated unfairly and needs 
information from historic statements for his allegations to be looked at. Yet, because the 
accounts were closed a number of years ago and Co-op dont keep statements for more 
than seven years these cant be provided to him.
I have reviewed Co-ops file notes and internal screen shots of the searches theyve carried 
out and Im satisfied that Co-op have taken Mr Hs requests seriously but just cant generate 
the information he requires.
Banks dont keep hold of information forever and Co-ops policy is adopted by many 
businesses as they arent supposed to hang on to information that they dont have a 
business need for. There has to be a policy for deleting/destroying data and that necessarily 
means there needs to be a cut off period. I appreciate Mr H disagrees with Co-ops policy, 
thinks it should be twenty years and that they must have back up data or records in storage, 
but Im satisfied Co-op no longer have any information and have acted in line with their data 
retention policy.
So, although the lack of statements is problematic and frustrating for Mr H, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Co-op to say that it doesnt have the bank statements for his accounts. 
I appreciate that without the statements Mr H doesnt have information to show that Co-op 
failed to carry out reversals of transactions for faulty goods and services and forced him into 
authorised and unauthorised overdrafts. However, whilst I can understand Mr Hs frustration 
in not being able to provide information to support these allegations, Im unable to consider 
this part of his complaint without any evidence.
So, considering all the above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman