DRN-3447725
The complaint
I, a limited company complains about the way that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated it. 
What happened
I, is a business banking customer of Lloyds. I is represented in this complaint by a director, 
Mr W. 
Mr W is unhappy with the way that Lloyds has been handling Is accounts since the middle of 
2021. In June 2021, Lloyds closed Is overdraft facility which led to charges and returned 
direct debits. Although the charges were refunded and the overdraft was reinstated, Lloyds 
reduced the overdraft facility from the previously agreed level of £7,000 to £5,000. Lloyds 
agreed the facility would be made available until the end of July 2021.
After Mr W spoke to Lloyds in July 2021, it sent I a final demand seeking repayment of the 
overdraft facility. Lloyds said that this was because I wasnt generating any income. The only 
credits to Is account came from Mr W personally, including a personal salary.
Mr W thought there were inconsistencies in the way that Lloyds had dealt with I. He says 
different members of staff told him different things. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Is complaint be upheld. He explained that Lloyds 
was entitled to make a commercial decision to demand repayment of Is overdraft. The 
investigator told Mr W that this service couldnt consider some of Is concerns as they relate 
to complaint handling which isnt a regulated activity.
Mr W is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Mr W thinks its unfair that despite 
Lloyds seeing evidence that he was repaying Is overdraft it nevertheless demanded 
repayment. 
Now that Is overdraft has been repaid in full, Mr W expected Lloyds to confirm this in writing. 
Mr W says I has been a customer of Lloyds for more than nine years. Mr W says hes acted 
responsibly throughout and is amazed that Lloyds cant be bothered to write to him to try and 
work things out. Overall, Mr W thinks Lloyds has treated I unfairly and he would like this 
service to do something about that.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Ive listened to the call that Mr W had with the investigator after hed considered Is 
complaint. It seems to me that Mr W is concerned about the fairness of Lloyds decisions and 
the lack of follow up after I had repaid its overdraft.
Lloyds records indicate that it gave I an unsecured overdraft of £7,000 in March 2020. The 
overdraft was due to be in place for a year. In early 2021, a three-month extension of the 
overdraft facility was agreed which was due to expire in June 2021. Then in June 2021, 
Lloyds agreed a final one-month extension with a reduced limit of £5,000.
In mid-July 2021, Mr W had a telephone call to review Is account and wanted to renew the 
overdraft. Ive listened to the call recording. Mr W explains that I doesnt forecast any 
turnover for the foreseeable future. I is still active because there are opportunities coming 
through all the time so Mr W didnt want to close the company down. During the call, Lloyds 
tells Mr W that in the circumstances, it will send I a final demand and send the account to the 
recoveries team.
I can appreciate why this decision upset Mr W  particularly as hed been reducing the 
overdraft balance. But I cant interfere in Lloyds decision to demand repayment of Is 
overdraft facility. This a commercial decision that its entitled to take and thats permitted 
under the terms of Is account. Although Mr W thinks Lloyds was unfair to take this action 
after it had previously agreed to extend time the date for repayment of the overdraft, this 
doesnt mean that Lloyds made a mistake when it found out more information about Is 
trading position. Because of this, I dont feel Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably towards I, 
so I dont uphold this aspect of Is complaint.
Limited company I, was able to repay the outstanding overdraft in full shortly after receiving 
the letter of demand. I understand that Mr W thinks Lloyds should have confirmed this in 
writing. Although it might have been good to do this from a customer satisfaction point of 
view, I dont consider I can require Lloyds to conduct its business in a certain way. Mr W can 
see from Is bank statements that the account is no longer overdrawn  I think this is 
enough. 
Mr W would like Lloyds to think about how it can repair its relationship with I but again, I 
dont consider I can require it to do this. How Lloyds manages its relationships with 
customers is a commercial decision that this service wouldnt usually interfere with. I should 
however say that if I approaches Lloyds about the future conduct of its business bank 
account and remains unhappy with the outcome of that approach, Mr W could always 
complain again on behalf of I. 
I dont want to appear disrespectful to Mr W as he clearly feels strongly about Lloyds 
treatment but the complainant in this case, is I  not Mr W. Although Mr W feels that Lloyds 
was aggressive, inconsistent, and unfair, this is more a case of hurt felt by an individual. As 
a limited company, I cant have its feelings hurt. 
Another aspect of Is complaint is that its unhappy with how Lloyds has handled its 
complaint. However, the FCA Handbook limits the types of complaint that this service can 
consider to those:
..about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service...
While I can appreciate that I is unhappy about how Lloyds has handled its complaint, the 
handling of complaints isnt a financial service. This means I cant consider this aspect of Is 
complaint.
Overall, I dont consider that Lloyds needs to take any further action in relation to Is 
complaint. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr W.  My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman