DRN-3513383
The complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) settled another 
drivers claim against his motor insurance policy but didnt inform him. He wants the claim 
removed from his records.
What happened
Mr B was involved in an incident with another driver and was at fault. He said he arranged to 
settle the matter privately, but he did tell LV about the incident and he thought it had been 
recorded as for notification only. But the other drivers insurer contacted LV and made a 
claim. LV settled the claim but didnt tell Mr B. 
Mr B was unhappy when he found this out because he thought he and his wifes insurance 
may have been invalidated by the undisclosed claim. LV agreed that it had made a mistake. 
And it offered Mr B £100 compensation and said he could buy back the claim so it would be 
recorded as for notification only. But Mr B was unhappy with this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought LV was 
entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. But she thought LV had made a mistake in not telling 
Mr B that it had paid the claim. But Mr B had been able to rectify the error with his current 
insurer and hadnt suffered any other losses. So she thought LVs offer of compensation was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr B replied that he and his wife could have potentially suffered significant losses because 
of the error. He thought LVs compensation offer wasnt sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it must have come as a shock and caused distress when Mr B found 
out that LV had settled the other drivers claim without telling him. Mr B thought LV should 
have followed his instructions and not accepted the claim. 
The Investigator has already explained that LV is entitled under the terms and conditions of 
its policy with Mr B to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its 
advice in connection with the settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or 
not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
But I also agree that LV should have told Mr B that it had settled the claim so that he could 
disclose this to future insurers. But it didnt.
When a business makes a mistake, as LV accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
From what I can see, the error didnt cause Mr B any financial losses as fortunately he didnt 
have any accidents or make any claims in the interim before he found out about the fault 
claim. I can understand that Mr B thinks that he and his wife could have been severely 
impacted by the error. But I can only consider actual losses, not potential ones. And, as Ive 
said, nothing untoward happened that caused Mr B any loss. 
Mr B was able to rectify matters with his current insurer. And LV gave him the option of 
buying back the claim. This would mean the incident would be recorded as for notification 
only and Mr B would still need to report it to future insurers if asked about any incidents. I 
think this sufficiently restores Mr Bs position to what it should have been without the error.
In terms of the impact on Mr B, he has been caused trouble and upset. And I think £100 is 
sufficient compensation for this as its in keeping with the amount Id require for such an 
error, in keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require LV to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman