DRN-2974263
The complaint
Ms N complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly turned down her accidental 
damage claim on her buildings insurance policy despite having initially validated it.
 
What happened
Ms N contacted esure in August 2019 when she noticed cracks in the ceiling and walls 
along with damage to other parts of her home, such as the chimney breast and stack. She 
told esure the damage probably stemmed from renovation work to her neighbours house. 
esure recorded the claim as accidental damage.
esure appointed a loss adjuster to oversee the claim. The loss adjuster validated the 
claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. Over the following few months 
the loss adjuster arranged for a number of inspections and reports to be completed. 
These included:
A building surveyors report in October 2019. The surveyor thought it difficult to 
rule out that vibrations from the neighbouring work had contributed to the 
damage Ms N reported. However, he also thought some of it was consistent with 
properties of its age and type - particularly as there was evidence of repairs to 
previous ceiling cracks. esure told Ms N in mid-November 2019 that it had 
received the surveyors report and asked her when shed like the repair work to 
start. Ms N pointed out that the structural engineer was yet to attend, so esure 
apologised and agreed to sort that out.
A structural engineer, (who completed a report in December 2019) said mortar 
debris covering the roof void (next to the party wall) indicated considerable 
energy transferred through the party wall during remodelling work next door. 
He noted cracks, some of which he thought werent recent and suggested 
energy passing through the building could have disturbed previous repairs. He 
also thought cracking on the first floor could be indicative of roof spreading. 
Whilst noting that Ms N insisted the damage to the plasterwork was recent, he 
thought it possible that neighbouring works had remobilised any instability 
around this area.
A roofing specialist completed a report following an inspection in January 2020 
and identified a number of issues. These included broken and cracked tiles; 
cracked ridge tiles and blocked guttering. The specialist also noted that the 
underfelt was torn and hanging down in places in the loft. So, he thought some of 
the damage was indicative of age-related wear and tear. And whilst he noted a 
leak around the chimney, he said it was at least four metres away from the 
neighbours loft conversion, so he didnt think that was the cause.
In March 2020 - around seven months after Ms N made her claim  esure told her it had 
declined it in full because it hadnt stemmed from a one off insured event covered by her 
policy. esure thought the damage was more of a gradual operating cause, so it relied on 
a policy exclusion relating to that to decline the claim. However, it later suggested Ms N 
might want to take advice under the Family Legal Protection part of her policy.
Ms N complained to esure and said she expected it to honour her claim. esure responded 
in mid-June 2020. In summary, it said the loss adjuster shouldnt have validated the claim 
under the accidental damage section of the policy, as the damage didnt occur as a result 
of a one-off event. And it explained there was no cover under Ms Ns policy to fit the 
circumstances shed described - because the damage happened as a result of the third 
partys renovations. However, esure recognised there were avoidable delays, which 
caused concern and upset, so it gave Ms N £500 compensation to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience shed experienced.
Ms N wasnt happy with esures response. She didnt think it was difficult to prove the 
damage was caused by the neighbouring work and felt the reports confirmed that. She 
also thought there were factual inaccuracies and contradictions between the reports.
Ms N complained to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and whilst he 
agreed it took esure too long to give Ms N its claims decision (in relation to which it had 
given her £500 compensation) he thought esure acted reasonably in declining the 
claim. Particularly, as it had appointed relevant experts to assess the damage first. The 
investigator didnt think esure needed to do anything more.
Ms N didnt accept the investigators assessment and again pointed out that there were 
factual errors in the reports completed by esures professional experts. She also 
disputed that the damage was gradual.
As Ms N didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the matters been passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent esure and Ms N my provisional findings on 11 February 2021. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home insurance policies dont provide cover for all damage that might happen in a 
home. Theyre designed to offer cover for certain defined risks. And policyholders can 
opt to take out additional accidental damage cover for other damage that happens 
accidentally. If a policyholder can show that the damage theyre claiming for is covered 
by the terms of their policy, then the insurer should settle the claim. Thats unless it can 
show that a policy exclusion should apply to allow it to decline the claim.
Ms Ns policy provided cover for a number of different insured events and other damage 
that happened accidentally. When she made her claim, Ms N told esure that the damage 
to her home was accidental and she indicated the likely cause was neighbouring 
renovation work. According to Ms Ns policy wording accidental damage is a single, 
sudden, unexpected, physical damage or loss, which was not deliberate.
I think its fair to say that Ms Ns policy includes a fairly broad definition of whats covered 
by accidental damage. Given the circumstances she described, I can understand why she 
had an expectation that her claim would be covered. So, Ive thought about whether 
(particularly given what it later said) esure should have accepted an accidental damage 
claim from Ms N. And for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I think it should have done.As far as Ms N was concerned, the damage shed reported stemmed from the same 
event - the neighbouring renovation work. And, whilst it seems the renovations took place 
over several months, I dont think that in itself means the damage didnt happen suddenly, 
or that Ms N didnt suddenly notice it. Ive seen nothing to suggest the damage was 
caused deliberately either  and from what Ms N described, it was due to circumstances 
beyond her control. So, it seems to me that the events leading to the claim fit the broad 
definition of accidental damage as outlined in Ms Ns policy.
Ive then gone on to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for esure to decline the 
claim for the reasons it did. Initially esure said the claim wasnt covered because thered 
been no one off insured event. However, it then seemed to indicate that even if the 
damage was accidental, it wasnt covered because the damage was likely caused by a 
third party. And, according to esure, theres just no cover within the policy for damage 
caused in this way.
I accept there are certain exclusions within the accidental damage and general 
exclusions sections of the policy relating to third parties and renovations. But I dont think 
any of them apply to Ms Ns case. For instance, damage caused by cleaning; dyeing; 
alteration, restoration or renovations is excluded. And so is defects, damage or failure 
caused by you or your contractors malicious or wilful action; misuse or negligence; third 
party interference, including attempted repairs or modifications which do not meet 
recognised industry standards at the time the work was carried out.
Both of these exclusions appear to relate to damage caused by renovations carried out 
within the policyholders home. Thats not what happened here. And Ive seen nothing 
within the policy to suggest that damage caused by a third party  where it directly relates 
to work carried out outside of the policyholders home - wouldnt be covered. Nor does 
esure appear to have referred to such a specific exclusion. And Id expect an insurer to do 
that, as well as clearly setting out the information its relied on when turning down a claim.
Thats not to say that the claim might not have been declined based on other policy 
terms. And I think the question for me to consider here is whether esure had enough 
information to clearly show that the cause of the damage was something that wouldnt 
have been covered by the policy. On balance, I dont think it did. Ill say here that I 
appreciate Ms N has taken issue with the accuracy of some of what the experts said in 
their reports  or in some instances, what they didnt say. Its not for me to replace my 
own opinions for those of the experts instructed  as Im not an expert in building matters. 
And I think esure is entitled to take account of the professional opinions it receives. So, I 
wont be commenting on the errors and omissions that Ms Ns referred to.
But, looking at the various reports esure had - apart from the roofers report - I dont think 
any seemed particularly conclusive about the cause of damage. For instance, the building 
surveyor thought it difficult to rule out that vibrations from the neighbouring property were 
a possible cause. And whilst he and the structural engineer saw evidence of repairs to 
previous cracks (which they indicated could be consistent with a property of its age and 
type) both specialists seemed to indicate that the neighbouring work could equally have 
been responsible  even if it was to the extent that theyd disturbed previous repair works.
For esure to rely on a wear and tear type exclusion, it was for it to show why it was more 
likely than not that the damage was due to age related wear and tear (or something 
excluded under a different section of the policy), as opposed to being caused by the 
neighbouring works or something else. And I dont think esures currently done enough to 
show that. Nor is it clear to what extent (if at all) it thought about the possibility that even if 
some of the cracks werent new, the professionals evidence at the very least pointed to 
the fact that previous repair work (irrespective of whether it stemmed from things such as wear and tear or something else) may have been disturbed by the neighbouring 
renovation work. So, that meant issues Ms N had already put right, needed to be repaired 
again. It was also open to esure to seek further evidence or opinions if necessary, but Ive 
seen no evidence it did that either. And, in the absence of professional opinions that were 
more definitive, I think its just as plausible that the neighbouring work was the cause of 
some of the damage Ms N reported - such as the cracks to the walls and ceiling. And, as 
Ive already said, Ive seen nothing to suggest third party work of the kind Ms N reported 
wouldnt be covered. So, it follows that Im not currently persuaded esure did enough to 
fully and fairly assess Ms Ns claim. Ive set out later on what Im intending to direct esure 
to do about that now.
I think the situation was a little clearer as far as the damage to the roof was concerned. I 
say that because the roofing specialist reported a number of different problems with the 
roof (and provided photographic evidence), which he thought was indicative of age-related 
wear and tear. These included broken and cracked tiles; cracked ridge tiles and blocked 
guttering. The roofing specialist also noted that the underfelt was torn and hanging down 
in places in the loft. And whilst he also noted a leak around the chimney, he said it was at 
least four metres away from the neighbours loft conversion, so he didnt think that was the 
cause.
Im persuaded from the evidence Ive seen and the roofing specialists assessment that 
the issues are the kind often associated with age related wear and tear. So, Im satisfied 
that it would have been reasonable for esure to say, based on the evidence it had, that 
the roof repairs likely stemmed from something excluded from cover. And so, I think it 
would have been reasonable for esure to say that this part of the claim wasnt covered.
Im also aware Ms N is unhappy that esure initially validated the claim and then declined 
it. And she feels that the time taken and the stress and disappointment when her claim 
was declined has left her in a worse position. I can understand her frustration, 
particularly as - early on in the claim journey  esure indicated that it had validated the 
claim. I think its important to say though that even when handled smoothly and 
efficiently, claims of this nature can take some considerable time to decide. Thats 
because they often involve the insurer needing to obtain reports from appropriate 
experts and that in itself can be time-consuming. And esure has acknowledged some 
avoidable delays and paid £500 to compensate Ms N for the impact of that.
I dont think esures responses to Ms Ns complaint helped matters. For example, Ive 
seen it told Ms N that, in fact, it shouldnt have told her at an early stage that her claim was 
validated. But, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think that assessment is fair and 
reasonable, and I think Ms Ns policy did cover the circumstances that gave rise to her 
claim. And, as a result, I think it was reasonable for esure to take the time to instruct 
relevant experts to establish whether or not it should pay the claim or if it was excluded 
under the terms of the policy. And while I think it eventually came to the wrong decision on 
that point I dont find the time it took to reach that conclusion to be excessive in these 
particular circumstances. But, I do think by validating the claim early on, esure 
mismanaged Ms Ns expectations. And I think that situation was made even worse when, 
in November 2019, esure asked Ms N when she wanted the repair work to start. It seems 
that Ms N had to point out to esure that the structural engineer hadnt even been out at 
that stage. So, I can appreciate the great disappointment Ms Ns likely to have felt when 
she learned, in March 2020, that her claim wasnt covered at all. And I think that 
disappointment extends beyond just the avoidable delays esures referred to. So, taking 
all of this into account, Im intending to say that esure should pay Ms N another £250 
compensation to reflect the overall impact its claim handling had on her.
So, that leaves me to decide what esure needs to do now in relation to Ms Ns claim.Im mindful that its been about 11 months since esure gave Ms N its decision - and thats 
not a decision I currently agree with. And as far as Im aware, Ms Ns still to have the 
repair work in her home done. So, unless I receive other evidence, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this complaint is for esure to settle 
Ms Ns claim as one accidental damage claim (applying one policy excess) in relation to 
all aspects of the claim excluding the roof.
  
Responses to my provisional decision
Esure didnt accept my provisional decision. It said:
It will pay for accidental loss or damage to a building or contents as a result of a single, 
unexpected and unintended event... we just cannot see how ongoing renovations
works next door can be classed as sudden and unforeseen. 
In addition, it said that there are two general exclusion sections, which cover the whole 
policy and support its decision to decline the claim. These are:
loss or damage that happens gradually over time  esure maintains that the work can 
only have happened over a period of time, so isnt sudden;
faulty workmanship, design or materials. Esure argues that the damage could only 
have occurred as a result of defective workmanship. And if there wasnt any 
defective workmanship there wouldnt be any damage. It said it doesnt specify in 
the general exclusions section that the defective workmanship has to be from the 
customers contractor,  it is OPEN in that regard and is for ANY defective 
workmanship.
Whilst Ms N indicated she was pleased with my provisional findings, she again said that she 
disagreed with the comments in the roofers report and had already indicated as much to 
esure in her initial complaint. She also said that shed instructed her own builder whod 
indicated there was a significant risk of harm to Ms N and her family due to the condition of 
her roof. The builder also suggested Ms N obtain her own building surveyors report. 
Due to the extent of Ms Ns concerns and those raised by her builder, she asked me to 
agree to her providing her own surveyors report. And due to some unforseen personal 
circumstances, she also asked me to grant an extension to the time limit for her to respond 
to allow her to get that report and provide further comments. I agreed to Ms Ns request and 
informed esure of this. 
Ms N has now given me extensive additional information and comments to consider. They 
include:
an email from the local council saying that any work to remove or repair the chimney 
would be subject to the Party Wall Act 1996;
a surveyors report completed following an inspection on 5 March 2021. The surveyor 
said the cracks seemed to be symptomatic of a single cause... and is typical of that 
associated with impact damage/vibration caused by works on or adjacent to the party 
wall. He thought it likely that the movement and damage to the property has arisen 
as a direct result of the removal of the chimney breast and the roof conversion and 
extension at the neighbouring property. 
I shared Ms Ns surveyors report with esure and invited it to make comments. In response 
esure said its position hadnt changed and the damage being symptomatic of a single cause does not mean one sudden event and still falls outside the AD definition. When our 
Technical Claims Controller reviewed the damage, he said for all that damage to occur as a 
single one-off event, there would have had to be an explosion next door. There is nothing to 
support the claim.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive carefully considered the additional information and comments Ive received. 
In doing so, I note esure hasnt made any new comments or given me new information to 
consider changing my mind on this issue. There remains a broad agreement between 
esures structural engineer and Ms Ns building surveyor that the cracks to the walls and 
ceiling were caused by the neighbouring work. Esure again said that the neighbouring work 
went on for some time, so it cant be considered sudden. I dont dispute that the renovation 
work went on for some time. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, that doesnt 
mean the damage didnt suddenly appear, or that Ms N didnt suddenly notice it. Its not 
possible to establish exactly when the cracking first started to appear. But, based on the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied Ms N reported the claim within a reasonable time after 
she noticed the damage. It follows therefore that I remain persuaded its more likely the 
damage was noticed suddenly and unexpectedly by Ms N and the claim therefore meets the 
policy definition for accidental damage. And for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional 
decision I dont think any poor workmanship in the neighbouring property is enough to apply 
the defective workmanship exclusion in relation to  damage caused to Ms Ns property. So, 
I remain of the opinion that esure should settle Ms Ns claim for the accidental damage 
directly caused by the neighbouring renovation work. 
However, I note that the report from Ms Ns surveyor isnt particularly persuasive about the 
cause of the external damage to the roof. And, on balance, Im more persuaded by the 
specialist roofers report that esure obtained, which says that the broken and cracked tiles; 
cracked ridge tiles and blocked guttering were more likely indicative of age-related wear 
and tear. And I think the photographs provided support that too. So, I think esure would be 
entitled to rely on the policy exclusion surrounding age-related wear and tear in respect of 
this specific aspect of the claim.
Putting things right
esure Insurance Limited now needs to:
settle the accidental damage claim (as one claim with one excess) in relation to all 
of the damage caused by the neighbouring renovation work, excluding the external 
damage to the roof  ie the broken and cracked roof tiles; cracked ridge tiles and 
blocked guttering (as referred to in the specialist roofers report).
pay Ms N an additional £250 compensation to reflect the overall impact its claim 
handling had on her (in addition to the £500 payment already made). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
esure Insurance Limited now needs to settle Ms Ns claim as Ive set out above. 
esure Insurance Limited should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that 
Ms N has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also add interest to that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman