DRN-1347258
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) removed her overdraft and later 
defaulted her account without giving her notice.
What happened
Mrs H brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response from Nationwide 
when she complained to them in March 2019. She told us she didnt think the default notice 
was issued correctly. She said she wanted Nationwide to remove the default from her credit 
file as it had a massively detrimental effect on her life and could affect her in a professional 
capacity. She didnt think her conduct could be criticised in any way as shed ensured the 
overdraft was serviced and had given notification of her change of address.
In their Final Response Letter of 12 April 2019 Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. They 
told Mrs H as her account was in an unauthorised position theyd written to her at the 
address on there records and tried to call her but were unsuccessful. Nationwide said theyd 
also emailed each month asking her to review her statements online and, as the account 
remained in an unauthorised position, the default was applied. They apologised for sending 
the initial acknowledgement letter for her complaint to her old address and said this was due 
to a delay in the new address updating onto their systems. And they offered her £25 for this 
error.
Our investigator was satisfied Nationwide had sent the letters advising of the unarranged 
overdraft, the decision to remove it, the request for full repayment and the default notice to 
the correct address they had on record for Mrs H. She said she couldnt see that Mrs H sent 
her letters by recorded delivery, so she found there was no evidence to support that Mrs H 
had sent or Nationwide had received the letters from her advising of a change of address. 
So, she didnt think it was reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for Mrs Hs address not 
having been updated. She also found Nationwide had acted fairly when exercising its right to 
remove the overdraft here. And she thought, as Nationwide hadnt made an error, she wasnt 
in a position to tell them to remove the default marker registration with the credit reference 
agencies. She though the compensation paid for the old address being used for the 
complaint acknowledgement letter was reasonable.
Mrs H didnt agree and has sent us a number of responses to the view. Initially she told us 
she didnt think Nationwide had done enough to trace her when theyd begun to get 
undelivered post returned to them in November 2019 and she would get evidence from the 
postal service to support that shed told Nationwide of the change of address. And on 22 
October 2019 she told us that shed found an email from another of her email accounts 
which informed Nationwide that shed changed address. She later sent us her detailed 
comments on the investigators view, a signed document dated 28 May 2020 which she 
described as a Statutory Declaration, a further letter dated 16 June 2020 setting out the 
issue with the postal service and raising a new points about the steps taken by Nationwide to 
trace her concerns that the overdraft amount was made up of unlawful charges. She later 
forwarded a letter from the postal service dated 12 June 2020.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has made considerable submissions in bringing her complaint. And whilst I dont 
intend to respond in similar detail, I have read all her correspondence and taken it into 
account when making my decision. So if I dont mention any particular point or piece of 
evidence it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mrs H doesnt take this as a discourtesy; it is 
just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
In this complaint Im dealing just with the removal of the overdraft and the subsequent 
default of the account which Mrs H raised with us in 2019. Mrs H has voiced new concerns 
in her most recent letter relating to what she sees as unauthorised overdraft charges and 
Nationwides failing to alert her of these by SMS. Its unclear to me if that matter is now 
resolved or a new complaint she wishes to bring. But either way it would be wrong of me to 
consider it here within this complaint.
I think Mrs H has herself summed up whats at the heart of this dispute. She recently told us 
she accepted she couldve paid a little more attention to the running of the account but that 
she also fully expected to be notified of any issues on the account. Id agree with that and, 
on the evidence before me, I think thats what Nationwide have done. The problem is the 
address to which that notifications been sent after October 2018. Mrs H told us she moved 
from her address in March 2018 to a temporary address and didnt notify Nationwide of the 
change until late October 2018. So, on the basis of her own evidence, there can be no issue 
about the letters Nationwide sent up to late October 2018. 
Nationwide say their earliest record of receiving a new address was Mrs Hs call to them on 
11 March 2019. So theres a disagreement as to whether she notified Nationwide of her 
change of address in late October 2018 or on 11 March 2019. Ultimately its Mrs Hs 
responsibility to manage this account within the terms and conditions and to keep 
Nationwide informed of her current address and contact details. Based on all the information 
before me, I cant be satisfied Mrs H met those responsibilities and made Nationwide aware 
of her correct contact details before 11 March 2019.
Mrs H has pointed out this service should expect the same type of evidence from both 
parties in respect of the proof of posting of letters and Id generally agree with that. She 
thinks the burden of proof of posting is higher for her than for Nationwide here but I dont 
think its the case. Firstly I dont think it can be disputed Nationwide sent these letters. 
Nationwides records not only show copies of the letters, records of them being generated 
and sent, but also show those letters being returned by the postal service as the addressee 
had gone away. That return could only happen if the letters had been sent. And thats 
something Mrs H appears to accept in her criticism of Nationwide for continuing to use her 
old address after theyd received returned undelivered mail. So the issue in dispute isnt 
whether Nationwide wrote to Mrs H but rather whether the address they wrote to her at from 
late October 2018 was correct. As its Mrs Hs responsibility to keep the society up to date 
with her details its for her to provide evidence to support that she did this, in October 2018.
I appreciate Mrs H has gone to some trouble to gather information to show she sent the 
October 2018 letters. But Im afraid, for a number of reasons, which Ill explain, the evidence 
shes sent doesnt satisfy me she notified Nationwide of the change of address before 11 
March 2019. Firstly Mrs H told us on 22 May 2020 the single tracking number shed sent us was one I 
believe to match the letter I sent to (one of Nationwides postcodes). But thats not the 
same as knowing it was used. So its difficult for me to place much weight on this evidence 
when shes not certain it was used. Also, theres no tracking number for the other letter she 
sent to Nationwide at an alternative address. And the tracking number Mrs H has supplied 
gives different details both in terms of the address and date to those Mrs H says should 
apply. 
Mrs H has offered an explanation for the different tracking information  the postal service 
only hold tracking information under a number for 12 months and can recycle and reuse 
them. Although the letter from the postal service of 12 June 2020 doesnt specifically refer to 
this case I dont doubt that practice happens. But I cant be sure it happened in this case to 
the tracking number provided. Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive 
and I cant know exactly whats happened, Ive got to decide on a balance of probabilities. 
And here, on balance, given Mrs Hs lack of certainty about the tracking number, the 
different tracking details and inconsistencies about the method of notification, whether letters 
were tracked and obtaining proof of their postage and tracking  - which Ill expand on below - 
I cant be satisfied Nationwide were notified of the change of address before 11 March 2019.
The information about how and when Mrs H notified Nationwide of her new address isnt 
consistent. In the call on 11 March 2019 Nationwides system log records note Mrs H telling 
the call handler shed been out of the country working and changes her phone number all 
the time as she visited different countries. And that shed tried to change her address by 
emailing them on 11 November 2018. But in her initial letter of complaint to Nationwide and 
subsequent letter to this service on 10 July 2019, Mrs H refers to letters written to the bank 
on 11 October 2018 - theres no mention of the emails from 11 November 2018 or the use of 
a tracked postal service to send these letters.
When Mrs H wrote to Nationwide on 26 March 2019 she set out her concerns about the 
consequences the default could have on her professionally and her ability to practice. So Im 
at a loss to understand  given those concerns along with her professional insight and 
experience - why she didnt secure the evidence held under the tracking number at that 
stage. Or secure it at any number of later points in the complaint   all still well within the 12 
month window when the postal service say it was available  at which she would have been 
on notice that such evidence was central and vital to her case. Particularly as she told our 
investigator, on 20 August 2019, she was making a formal request to the postal service for 
information. But, despite that enquiry being within the 12 month window when the tracking 
information hadnt been recycled, Mrs H hasnt been able to provide us with this evidence. 
I also find it surprising that Mrs H didnt mention shed used a tracked letter to notify 
Nationwide when she spoke to both them and this service at any point before August 2019. 
And her recent signed statement of 28 May 2020 - which Mrs H describes as a Statutory 
Declaration  also makes no reference to use of a tracked service when sending the letters 
dated 11 October 2018. The earliest reference to the possible use of a tracked service is an 
observation from our investigator, in her view, that she couldnt see Mrs H had sent her 
October 2018 letters by recorded delivery. Only after that point - in a call with investigator on 
14 August 2019  is it noted that Mrs H say's shell contact the postal service. Mrs H told the 
investigator, as shed sent letters to other organisations recorded delivery, she would ask the 
postal service if she can get any evidence to show this was the case for the Nationwide 
letters. 
So, having carefully considered everything here, on balance, I cant be satisfied Mrs H 
notified Nationwide of her change of address before 11 March 2019. From everything Ive seen Im satisfied Nationwide wrote to Mrs H at the correct address 
from their records on 2 August, 1 and 28 September, 25 October and 8 November 2018 to 
advise the account was over its authorised limit, 25 August 2019 withdrawing the overdraft 
facility and requesting full repayment of the overdraft and serving the default notice on 12 
December 2018. And that they first received notification of Mrs Hs new address when she 
called them on 11 March 2019. I know Mrs H thinks the amount of time given to repay the 
account in the default notice and covering letter dated 12 December 2018 is insufficient but, 
given my finding on the timing of the address notification, even if shes correct, I dont think 
that would make any difference to the overall outcome here.
I dont agree with Mrs Hs assertion that Nationwide should have done more to trace her 
when they received her undelivered mail in November 2019 theyre under no obligation to do 
that. On the contrary its Mrs Hs responsibility to keep Nationwide informed of her current 
details but, as Ive already explained, Im not persuaded she did this before 11 March 2019. 
And I dont think the recent information Mrs H received from Nationwide about how they may 
track former members of the society is relevant here given her failure - whilst she remained 
an active account holding member -  to update her details in line with her responsibilities.
Nationwides records show Mrs H opted out of paper statements and was registered for 
online banking, so she was sent monthly email notifications that her statement was ready to 
view. Mrs H told us she didnt have access to the online account facility during this time. 
Whilst I appreciate that meant she couldnt access her statements or check on the account I 
cant see she tried to remedy this at any stage so Nationwide wouldnt have known there 
was an issue. So, even on her own evidence, Mrs H ran this account from May 2018 until 
late October 2018 - without updating her contact details address with the society  via an 
online account and statements which shes told us she couldnt access. 
Mrs H describes the account as not being active for 12 months before the complaint and 
having a small overdraft which she was servicing with monthly payments from another 
account. But I disagree with that description. From looking at the statements I can see 
although the regular payment in was made, the account was also in use by Mrs H during this 
period. There are live direct debits going out and recurring card transactions on the account 
along with spending online and instore. So the authorised overdraft was often exceeded.
I think its clear from the account terms and conditions Nationwide are entitled to remove the 
overdraft and I think theyve acted fairly in doing so. I appreciate Mrs H doesnt accept 
Nationwide made the correct commercial decision when they removed the overdraft. But Im 
afraid thats not something she has any say over. Its for the society to make commercial 
decisions about who it offers banking and lending services to. They can decide they no 
longer wish to do business with individuals because they have the commercial freedom to 
decide whod they like to contract with. And given the account activity Ive seen on the 
statements and the lack of response to its letters I'm satisfied Nationwide exercised its 
commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to remove the overdraft account here. 
I also think Nationwide acted in line with The Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies published by The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) in July 2016 - which is guidance intended to be the main 
source of advice for the public on the reporting of (amongst other things) defaults - on two 
basis. First the account had been in arrears for 3 or more months and also that the account 
was in arrears and Nationwide received an indication that Mrs H had left her address without 
notifying them. 
So, overall, I cant reasonably say the action Nationwide have taken here in respect of the 
overdraft and account default is wrong, so Im not going to uphold this complaint. And in 
respect of the mistake in sending the complaint acknowledgment letter to the old address I think the compensation Nationwide have already paid is a reasonable response, so I dont 
require them to do anymore. I know Mrs H feels strongly about this and is likely to be 
disappointed with my decision. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to 
resolve her dispute with Nationwide informally  can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman