DRN-2733933
The complaint
H, a limited company represented by a director Mr S, complained about Prepay 
Technologies Limited, trading as Prepay Solutions (PPS).
Mr S says PPS failed to credit Hs account with a £100 promotional bonus. 
What happened
H opened a business account with PPS. Mr S says that he chose PPS over other providers 
because it offered a £100 opening bonus. Mr S says he opened the account in 2019 within 
the time period set down in the promotional offer.
PPS says it didnt deposit the £100 into Hs account because it didnt apply for the promotion 
correctly.
The investigator upheld Hs complaint. He said he hadnt seen any documents to support 
what PPS was saying. 
PPS had extra time to give this service further documents. It gave us a document with 
details of what the web content of the promotion was based on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
PPS agrees that Mr S applied for the business account within the timescale set down by the 
promotion. But it says Mr S didnt use the promotional link to open the account. PPS says 
the relevant term is:
Offer valid for new accounts to Tide (PPS) only. Subject to approval. Offer redeemed after 
completing an application for an account between 27 November 2019 and 2 December 2019 
and depositing £100 within the first 3 months of approval. It can take 6-8 weeks for this to be 
validated and the reward to be transferred. Limited to 1 reward per customer. Customers 
must provide their email address in the form above and apply for an account with the same 
address to be eligible. Cannot be used in conjunction with any other offer. We reserve the 
right to modify or withdraw this offer.
I agree with the investigator that without further evidence from PPS its difficult to consider 
how the terms of the promotion were presented. I cant be sure what terms Mr S did or didnt 
see. Or whether the terms were clearly presented. This means I cant reasonably find that  
Mr S knew or shouldve known that he had to use a specific promotional link for H to be 
eligible for the offer.
I have reviewed the document that PPS sent. It doesnt mention that the potential customer 
should apply using a specific promotional link or form, so it doesnt change my decision. 
As PPS agrees that the account was opened within the relevant timeframe, I consider its 
reasonable to require it to honour the terms of the promotional offer. This should include 
paying H the £100 bonus and making sure any other relevant promotional benefits are 
applied to the account.
Putting things right
To put things right Prepay Technologies Limited should:
Return Hs account to the way it should have been had it originally benefited from the 
promotional offer, including depositing £100 in to the account; and 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year (less tax if properly deductible) on the £100 deposit 
from the date that it shouldve been deposited in to Hs account to the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require PrePay 
Technologies Limited to take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman