DRN-3390498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that a mistake by Kingfisher Insurance Services Limited left them 
without flood cover on their caravan holiday home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B own a static caravan which, for a number of years, they insured with insurer T. 
The policy they had with T included flood cover. That it did was very important for Mr and 
Mrs B given their holiday home was near a watercourse. In January 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy was coming up for renewal so Mr B used some price comparison websites to see if he 
could obtain cheaper cover. It was important to him to make sure any policy he bought 
included cover for flood damage. 
Mr B found a policy that included flood cover with insurer A which was sold and arranged by 
Kingfisher. Mr and Mrs B said they sought reassurance from Kingfisher over the telephone 
that the policy it was offering included flood cover and were reassured that it was. After 
experiencing some issues during the payment process on Kingfishers website, Mr and 
Mrs B proceeded with the policy offered, paying the premium in full on 19 January 2021. 
They also declined the renewal offered by T. 
Towards the end of February 2021, Mr and Mrs B received a letter from Kingfisher which 
said that due to a processing error, their policy hadnt included an endorsement. Kingfisher 
went on to say that A was unable to continue cover without the endorsement being added to 
the policy with immediate effect. The letter didnt mention what endorsement A had added 
but enclosed reissued policy documents. On page 5 of the reissued policy schedule beneath 
the heading Applicable Endorsements it stated: Flood  Flood Exclusion: Notwithstanding 
anything contained to the contrary in Your policy, loss or damage resulting from flood is 
excluded. Kingfisher also said that if Mr and Mrs B wished to cancel their policy they could 
do so without a cancellation charge and would receive a pro rata refund of their premium. 
Mr and Mrs B wrote to Kingfisher immediately to say that the withdrawal of flood cover was a 
major issue for them and one they could not accept. They said they had completed the 
policy application form in full, disclosing the location of the caravan. And they said they had 
accepted the terms offered by Kingfisher and relied on them when cancelling their policy with 
T. Mr and Mrs B said they had contacted T who had told them that had they renewed their 
existing policy then the benefit of flood cover wouldve continued but as they hadnt, they 
would now be treated as new customers and any new policies didnt include flood cover. 
Mr and Mrs B said to Kingfisher that through no fault of theirs, and solely as a result of 
Kingfishers mistake, they now found themselves without flood cover and with no possibility 
of obtaining it again. 
Kingfisher said it would look into matters for them but when they heard nothing further, 
Mr and Mrs B complained to this service in late June 2021. Having done so, it transpired that 
Kingfisher had, in fact, issued its final response letter on their complaint in late April 2021. 
Kingfisher said it had been told by A to add the endorsement and that it was unable to 
negotiate with insurers about what they would and wouldnt cover. It said that despite trying 
to secure a policy for Mr and Mrs B with an alternative insurer that included flood cover, it 
had been unable to do so. Kingfisher explained that this was due to the number of claims in 
the area where the caravan was located. Kingfisher concluded by saying it was upholding Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint as it had been experiencing issues with its website which it was 
endeavouring to resolve. 
Kingfisher said that due to the issues Mr and Mrs B had experienced with its website, the 
fact the initial policy documentation had been incorrect meaning an endorsement was added 
mid-term and the fact it had been unable to find them the cover they required elsewhere, it 
was returning their premium (£267.19) in full but leaving the policy in place for the remainder 
of the year. 
Our investigator then looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. During his investigation, 
Kingfisher told him that prior to payment being taken links are provided to certain 
documents. It said that the Insurance Product Information Document available on its website 
stated that in some cases insurers applied endorsements to policies and, if any were to be 
applied, then they would be explained or displayed online before purchase and in the 
documentation after purchase. Kingfisher told us that itd contacted Mr and Mrs B at the end 
of February 2021 to let them know that the endorsement was missing from their documents 
and enclosing updated versions. Finally, Kingfisher said that the refunded premium hadnt 
been issued in April 2021 (after its final response letter) and had only been issued in mid-
October 2021. So, it said, itd be adding interest at 8% simple a year because of the delay. 
Our investigator issued his findings in late October 2021 but didnt recommend the complaint 
was upheld. He thought that Kingfisher had treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably by 
trying to find an alternative insurer and by refunding the full amount they had paid together 
with 8% simple interest.
Mr and Mrs B responded to our investigator to say that they disagreed with his conclusions. 
They said his findings had failed to address the fact they could no longer secure flood cover. 
They also said they failed to see how they couldve been said to have been treated fairly or 
reasonably when theyd lost the benefit of their flood cover through no fault of their own and 
had received no redress aside from a refunded premium. They asked what they were to do 
without future flood cover. Finally they said theyd never received Kingfishers final response 
letter from April 2021. 
Our investigator looked at what Mr and Mrs B had said but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He said that brokers like Kingfisher were generally unable to ask insurers to alter their 
terms of cover. As this was the case, he didnt think Kingfisher had done anything wrong by 
not negotiating terms with A. He said we did expect brokers to seek alternative insurers in 
situations like this and he was satisfied that Kingfisher had indeed tried to obtain a policy 
with flood cover but had been unable to do so. So he thought Kingfishers offer to refund the 
premium with interest was fair in all the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B continued to disagree with our investigator. They said the policy had been 
misrepresented to them and that Kingfisher was being let off the hook. It said if Kingfisher 
had represented the actual position  that A couldnt have offered flood cover  then theyd 
have kept their old policy with T. 
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision is March 2022 
recommending that the complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Kingfisher accepts that it made an error. Somewhere during the sales process the flood 
endorsement shouldve flagged up and it didnt. So a mistake was made and the actual 
terms of cover were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B. Given the location of their caravan 
holiday home, the inclusion of flood cover was of extreme importance to them. So much so, that on deciding they were going to proceed with Kingfishers policy, Mr and Mrs B phoned it 
up just to check the cover definitely was included and were told that it was. And the policy 
documentation with which they were issued immediately after the sale made no mention that 
it wasnt. 
If the endorsement had flagged up as it should then Id be reaching a very different 
conclusion now, but it didnt. And Mr and Mrs B relied to their detriment on the assurances 
and information that they were given by Kingfisher. But for Kingfishers mistake, Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve continued cover with T and retained protection for their home in the event it 
was damaged by a flood. Through no fault of their own however, they now find themselves 
without flood cover and no means of obtaining it either. 
Despite reaching this conclusion this is not an easy situation for me to try to remedy for Mr 
and Mrs B. What they want, flood cover for their holiday caravan, isnt something Im able to 
award. If the mistake they fell victim to had been made by an insurer then I could require it to 
include flood cover in its policy. But Kingfisher is an insurance intermediary  it arranges and 
administers insurance policies on behalf of insurers  it is not an insurer or an underwriter. It 
has no direct or indirect control over the terms of cover an insurer offers so I cant make it 
provide Mr and Mrs B with flood cover for their holiday caravan.
Whilst fortunately for Mr and Mrs B there has been no need to make a claim for flood 
damage, if there had been, I couldve required Kingfisher to step into the shoes of the 
insurer and settle (any valid) claim. But with no loss suffered, I cant require it to do this 
either. 
What Mr and Mrs B have suffered though, and will continue to suffer, as a result of 
Kingfishers error, is the worry of a potential future loss. And unfortunately for them, there is 
no insurance remedy that I can provide for that. But I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs B will 
be left with a significant amount of future worry for however long they continue to own their 
holiday caravan. 
Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes avoidable distress and 
inconvenience to consumers this service can require it to pay them compensation. I think 
that the errors in Kingfishers sales process (by failing to highlight the endorsements 
existence which wouldve put Mr and Mrs B on notice not to proceed), that led to the mistake 
that Mr and Mrs B relied on to their detriment, has had a significant impact on them and 
caused them avoidable trouble and upset. But for Kingfishers mistake, Mr and Mrs B would 
still have flood cover for their caravan.
I know that Mr and Mrs B have taken steps to minimise the impact of the mistake on them 
but without success. They have tried to find an insurer that will provide flood cover. And they 
have also approached their former insurer (T) which wont offer them cover on their old 
terms either. I can appreciate this has caused them some inconvenience, which was not of 
their own making.
I accept that Kingfisher has also tried to find alternative cover for Mr and Mrs B as well, also 
without success, and has acknowledged its error and offered to pay them compensation in 
the amount of the premium they paid for the policy year (with interest). But I dont think 
Kingfishers compensation fairly and reasonably reflects the impact and distress of the 
ongoing worry Mr and Mrs B will experience, or the inconvenience the mistake has caused 
them. Its reasonable to assume that every time in the future there is a period of heavy 
rainfall, or an extreme weather event, their worry about the condition of their caravan holiday 
home will be exacerbated.
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint into account, I think that, in addition to the 
returned premium (£267.19) and interest (at 8% simple per year) that Kingfisher has already offered Mr and Mrs B, it should pay them further compensation of £1,000. This is for the 
distress the ongoing worry of being without flood cover will cause them and for the 
inconvenience Kingfishers error has caused. I think this additional award is a more fair and 
reasonable reflection of the trouble and upset Kingfishers mistake has caused Mr and Mrs B 
 and will continue to cause them  and is more in line with awards made by this service in 
complaints with similar circumstances. I appreciate that my proposed award falls short of the 
remedy Mr and Mrs B truly seek but, for the reasons Ive given above, Im regrettably unable 
to do any more.  
Finally, I know that Mr and Mrs B say they never received a copy of Kingfishers April 2021 
final response. I can see that it was correctly addressed but there are a number of reasons 
why it may not have been delivered. I appreciate that it must have been frustrating not to 
have received it but Ive seen no evidence that this was the fault of Kingfisher.
Mr and Mrs B replied to my provisional decision and made the following comments: 
That they sought comparison quotes in January 2021 and not October 2020 as stated by 
me;
That is was important to understand that Mr and Mrs B thought that Kingfisher was the 
insurer and it was its policy. It wasnt until they received the policy documentation that 
they realized that it was underwritten by A;
They were unaware of the name Kingfisher until they complained to this service. Their 
dealings had been with another entity S which still implies on its website that the policy 
is its own and makes no mention that it is a broker;
My provisional decision relies a lot on what a broker can and cant do but they werent 
aware they were dealing with a broker; 
Kingfisher only spent a few hours trying to find them a policy with flood cover. They 
chased Kingfisher 3 times by email before contacting us so they couldnt accept that it 
ever wrote or sent them a final response letter dated April 2021. This was particularly the 
case as all their previous correspondence had been by email not post;
This is further supported by the fact that Kingfisher never processed the refund it offered 
them in the April 2021 final response letter. If the final response had been written, why 
take so long to process the refund;
This shows that the final response letter was only produced once a complaint was 
lodged with this service;
That upon identifying that the premium had been refunded they werent then told that the 
policy remained in place so they immediately assumed the policy was cancelled and that 
they needed to find an alternative policy;
That whilst they appreciate the compensation I proposed, and it goes some way to 
recognizing their frustration, it isnt enough to fully compensate them for the ongoing 
worry of being without flood cover.
Kingfisher replied to my provisional decision, providing some further evidence and making 
the following comments: 
It attached recordings of the calls between it and Mr B and said there were none where 
Mr B had queried the inclusion of flood cover in the policy or where it had told him it was 
included;
The calls were to discuss payment issues but if flood cover was so vital they were an 
opportunity for Mr B to check it definitely was included;
It wanted to know if Id checked whether Mr and Mrs Bs previous insurer T included 
flood cover and, if so, what the premium was;
It said if T was offering to renew with a loaded premium to take the flood risk into 
account, yet Mr and Mrs B still switched policies, then it was only reasonable for me to take this fact into account;
It too pointed out that Id said Mr and Mrs Bs policy was coming up for renewal in 
October but that they didnt take a policy out until January 2021  it wanted to know why 
there was a gap in cover. 
The complaint was returned to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B sought price comparison quotes for their policy in January 2021 
and not October 2020. That means there is no gap in cover. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B say that they dealt with another entity S throughout the time 
they had the policy. But S is a trading name of Kingfisher so it is Kingfisher against whom 
the complaint must be made. Any reference to Kingfisher should be taken to include a 
reference to S as well. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs B thought that Kingfisher was an insurer, and that they say they had no 
idea they were dealing with a broker, I can see from the policy booklet that they were 
provided with at the point of sale that it states that Kingfisher was a trading name of (another 
entity) V that acts on behalf of insurers to administer and issue policies. The word insurers 
is specifically defined in the policy terms as meaning A. I can also see that they were 
provided with Kingfishers terms of business which state that it is an insurance intermediary 
providing advice on a range of insurance products selected from a panel of insurers. So 
I think that Kingfisher/S/V provided Mr and Mrs B with enough information for them to be 
aware they were not dealing with an insurer but rather with an intermediary/broker. 
Whilst Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the final response letter they repeat their 
previous comments which were considered by me provisionally, so they havent persuaded 
me to alter my provisional findings about this aspect of their complaint. There is no evidence 
that Kingfisher only wrote the final response letter (and backdated it) once Mr and Mrs B 
complained to this service. So, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about 
this issue, Ive not been persuaded to change my mind. I should also state that complaints 
about complaint handling arent within this services jurisdiction in any event. 
Kingfisher has admitted that it made an error in processing the refund of Mr and Mrs Bs 
premium for which it will compensate them for delaying payment by adding interest at the 
rate usually applied by this service of 8% simple per year. I know that Mr and Mrs B say that 
when they received the refund from Kingfisher they automatically thought that their policy 
was also being cancelled meaning they had to rush to find alternative cover. However, I can 
see that the final response letter states that the policy is not cancelled. I know that Mr and 
Mrs B say they never received it, and that is unfortunate. But, as I said provisionally, it was 
correctly addressed and there may be a number of reasons why it was not received. And I 
havent seen that Kingfisher knew, or should reasonably have suspected, that it hadnt been. 
So I cant reasonably say Kingfisher did anything wrong by not contacting Mr and Mrs B 
further in October 2021 when it made the refund in order to confirm that the policy remained 
in force. Thats because it thought it had already done so in its final response letter. 
So, to summarise, whilst Ive thought about the comments Mr and Mrs B made in response 
to my provisional decision, they havent persuaded me to change my mind. Ive listened to the phone call recordings that Kingfisher sent us and I agree that none of 
them includes a discussion about flood cover. It is entirely possible that there were other 
calls where (for whatever reason) no recording was made but I accept that these recordings 
dont involve any discussion of flood cover. 
Even accepting Kingfishers point, which is that it believes Mr and Mrs B never phoned it to 
discuss flood cover, Im still not persuaded to change my mind about this aspect of their 
complaint. Thats because Mr and Mrs B shouldve been told by Kingfisher during the sales 
process that the policy didnt include flood cover. They shouldve been told that whether they 
asked a direct question about it or not. Without the information that the policy would contain 
a flood endorsement they were unable to make an informed choice at the point of sale about 
whether, taking into account all relevant aspects including the premium price along with the 
extent of cover, this policy was suitable for them. Nothing was flagged to them by Kingfisher 
during the sales process to put them on notice. Whether Mr B phoned Kingfisher or not to 
discuss flood cover doesnt alter the fact that incorrect and/or insufficient information was 
provided and relied upon to Mr and Mrs Bs detriment. 
T has provided us with a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs policy schedule from January 2020 along 
with the renewal terms offered in January 2021 (but not taken up). Both included flood cover 
with a flood endorsement. In 2020 that was a £500 policy excess for any flood claim and in 
2021 a £1,000 policy excess for any flood claim. The premium also increased by around 
50% in 2021. So I can see why Mr and Mrs B wouldve decided to shop around. But they 
have told us that they wouldve remained with T if itd been made clear to them by Kingfisher 
during the sales process that its policy excluded flood cover. So the price offered by T in 
2021, whilst higher, was still acceptable to Mr and Mrs B because it included cover for flood. 
Thats reinforced by the fact that they contacted T and asked if it could reinstate their former 
policy once they were notified about Kingfishers endorsement. 
So I have taken the premium into account when reaching my decision and Im not persuaded 
that the one offered by T was unacceptable for Mr and Mrs B and that they wouldve chosen 
Kingfishers policy regardless. Given the choice between paying £267.19 without flood cover 
for the Kingfisher policy or £604.59 with flood cover for Ts policy, Im persuaded from what 
Mr and Mrs B have said throughout the course of their complaint, that they wouldve chosen 
the latter. 
So, Ive not been persuaded by any of the comments made by Kingfisher to change my mind 
about this complaint. My provisional findings, along with my comments in reply to the parties 
responses, now form part of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
In addition to the returned premium (£267.19) and interest (at 8% simple per year) that 
Kingfisher has already offered Mr and Mrs B, it should pay them further compensation of 
£1,000. This is for the distress the ongoing worry of being without flood cover will cause 
them and for the inconvenience Kingfishers error has caused. I think this additional award is 
a more fair and reasonable reflection of the trouble and upset Kingfishers mistake has 
caused Mr and Mrs B  and will continue to cause them  and is more in line with awards 
made by this service in complaints with similar circumstances.
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Kingfisher Insurance 
Services Limited to take the steps Ive set out above under the putting things right section of 
this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman