DRN-2774480
The complaint
Miss W says Oakam Ltd trading as Oakam irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Oakam provided the following loan to Miss W:
loan start date date repaidfortnightly 
instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
1June 2018 Not paid 13 £470 £68.69
Miss W told us that the loan wasnt affordable for her. She said that the extent of her 
borrowing shouldve been apparent from her credit file and Oakam shouldnt have provided 
this loan. She has mentioned that another loan she took out with a different lender shortly 
before this one was upheld when she complained to that lender. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Miss W disagreed with our adjudicators view and she has asked for an ombudsman to look 
at her complaint. So it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Oakam was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make the repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
When Miss W applied for this loan, Oakam asked her for information about her finances and 
carried out a credit check. Ive seen the results of the credit check and it showed Miss W had 
14 active accounts and total outstanding credit of nearly £11,000. It looks like she had 2 
defaults recorded in the previous year and Oakam appears to have  noted that total credit 
arrears were around £9,600.
Miss W also had 2 county court judgements recorded against her  although there wasnt 
anything showing that this had happened recently. And it looks like Miss W had answered 
No when asked on her loan application Any CCJ? So I dont think Oakam had any 
particular reason to think court proceedings were ongoing or recent and I dont think this 
alone wouldve been enough to raise concerns about lending to her. Borrowers of this type 
of credit often have other debt and an impaired credit history  its not necessarily a reason 
to say that a loan shouldve been declined.
The credit checks showed that Miss W wasnt involved in any sort of arrangement with 
creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. 
Oakam took into account that its credit checks showed Miss W was paying around £312 
towards other creditors and accounted for this when working out whether the loan 
repayments looked affordable for Miss W. 
Miss W says Oakam shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her, due to the information shown on her credit file  which shes sent to us. But Id expect 
Oakam to decide Miss Ws lending application based on the information it was reasonably 
entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit search will. 
And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors have reported 
information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A lender might only 
see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, the information that Miss W might see on her own credit 
check, including other short term loans, may not have been identified by a credit check done 
by Oakam when she applied for this loan.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Oakam to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss W wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Oakam to probe 
any more deeply into Miss Ws finances or ask Miss W to prove what she was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about 
her financial circumstances. 
Im sorry that Miss W had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan proved difficult for 
her. I accept that in reality Miss Ws actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information she provided, or the other information Oakam obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Oakam did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Miss W. 
Each case is decided on its own merits and so what happened on a different case when 
Miss W complained to the lender doesnt affect the outcome here.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss W and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman