DRN-3650192
The complaint
Mr D complains that Wirex Limited wouldnt release money from his e-money card account 
when he didnt receive a cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr D attempted to withdraw £200 at a third-party cash machine on 18 April 2021 using his 
Wirex card. He says he didnt receive any money but a receipt stating that he wouldnt be 
debited. He wasnt able to access this money from his account until 20 May 2021.
Wirex said it hadnt made any mistake. An authorisation hold was placed on the account for 
30 days. And when this was removed Mr D had access to his money. It also paid him £4 for 
a withdrawal fee.
Our investigator said that there was no requirement for Wirex to allow Mr D access to his 
money during the hold period and while the merchant involved may apply a charge. Here 
due a technical issue the hold hadnt been automatically removed and Mr D had needed to 
contact Wirex. The money hadnt been debited and so at that time no chargeback could 
have been raised. Having said that Mr D had explained he was in financial difficulty and 
needed the money. She said Wirex should recognise the period involved here and it agreed 
and paid him £24.48 in compensation which she said was reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted higher compensation. He had been in contact daily to try and 
resolve things. He would have had access to his money sooner if he had an account with a 
high street bank. He says that this cost him £1,000 and he is struggling to get out of debt 
now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt have a role in setting processes as we arent the regulator. And I need 
to consider how Wirex operates, not any other financial business.
Im satisfied based on the information provided that the way its payments are processed 
means that the relevant authorisation hold period was 30 days. So unfortunately, even 
though Mr Ds cash machine withdrawal didnt conclude at the time, this payment hold was 
still subject to these timescales. 
No actual payment had debited as Wirex was waiting for the merchant to process this. Here 
the hold wasnt removed automatically after 30 days but a couple of days after that. I can 
see a fee refund of £4 relating to this was made by Wirex on 3 June 2022 too. Following 
investigation by this service Wirex also agreed to pay Mr D £24.48 and this has already been 
made to him. So, I wont interfere with whats already been paid and how thats been 
calculated.
The issue I need to decide on is whether Mr D should receive further compensation. Hes not 
supported any loss with evidence and shown that Wirex was the sole reason for this. But he 
says he had difficulty making important payments and got into debt. He clearly didnt have 
access to this money. But in view of what Ive said Im not persuaded that Wirex fairly needs 
to do anything more. I appreciate Mr D will be very disappointed by this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint on the basis that Wirex Limited should pay Mr D 
£24.48 as it has already done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman