DRN-1484439
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service hes received from London General Insurance Company 
Limited (LGI). He says his television hasnt been repaired to a satisfactory standard.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Mr N has the benefit of insurance for accidental 
damage to his television which is provided by LGI. 
In July 2019 Mr N made a claim for accidental damage to his television  it had been 
knocked over and had smashed. LGIs engineers attended on numerous occasions but Mr N 
maintains that the television still isnt working properly.
LGI accepted that the service they provided could have been better. Amongst the issues 
were that one engineer hadnt correctly replaced a panel and they sent the same engineer 
out twice, when Mr N had asked that it was someone different. They offered £30 
compensation for the distress this had caused Mr N. But they pointed out that their 
engineers had found the television to be working correctly on their latest visit, so they didnt 
think they needed to do more.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld. She recommended that the television be inspected at Mr Ns home by an 
independent firm (not LGIs agents that had previously attended) and that the compensation 
be increased to £200. LGI didnt agree with this, they said a further inspection could be 
arranged, with someone other than the agents theyd used before. But, this might require the 
television to be sent away by courier for this to happen. They also thought the compensation 
theyd already offered was fair.
As an agreement couldnt be found, the complaint came to me to decide. In August 2020 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
There are two main aspects to Mr Ns complaint, so Ill deal with each in turn.
The Repair
Mr N has submitted both video footage and photographs of the issues with his television. He 
describes these as marks on the screen and a problem whereby the image is momentarily 
blurred before becoming sharp again. It is very difficult to conclusively see the issues 
remotely in this way. But LGI have said they are happy to arrange a further inspection of the 
television to establish if there is a fault that requires a repair or replacement under the policy.  
I think this is a fair way to proceed.
I think both sides would agree that the relationship between Mr N and LGIs main repair 
agent has broken down. So, I agree that another firm of engineers should be used. But 
unlike our investigator, Im not persuaded that this needs to take place at Mr Ns home. The 
policy makes clear that not all repairs can take place in the home and that LGI might arrange 
for a courier to collect the television. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances, so Im 
not intending to direct that the further inspection has to take place at Mr Ns address. Once 
this inspection has taken place, Id expect LGI to consider the engineers findings and take 
the appropriate action. 
The Service
Both sides accept that the service hasnt been to the standards that would usually be 
expected. So, rather than repeat the details again here, Ill focus on what I think should be 
done to put things right. 
I can understand why Mr N was frustrated that errors by LGI or their agents caused him 
inconvenience. So, I agree that he should be compensated for the trouble and upset this 
caused him. LGI thought compensation of £30 was fair in the circumstances. I dont think 
that was sufficient for the impact it had on him.
Our investigator thought £200 was a fair amount. Im not persuaded that there was such an 
impact on Mr N as to warrant that level of compensation. Having carefully thought about it, I 
think £100 (in total) is a fair amount. I intend to direct that LGI pay £100 compensation, but 
this includes the £30 they have already offered. 
Summary
For absolute clarity, Im intending to uphold this complaint and direct that LGI:
Arrange for a further inspection of Mr Ns television to establish any faults and they 
should not use the same agents that previously worked on the claim. But there is no 
requirement for this inspection to take place in Mr Ns home.
Pay Mr N a total of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. (If the original £30 has already been paid, only a further £70 need be 
paid).
Mr N responded and said he had nothing further to add. LGI responded to say they accepted 
(as theyd always done) to have another look at the television, but they disputed that the 
compensation ought to be increased. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I 
can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome set out in my provisional 
decision. LGI pointed out that they had correctly calculated the compensation they felt due in 
line with a matrix that they use. They also felt a total of £100 compensation was excessive. 
Ive thought about this, and how LGI choose to calculate their compensation offers is a 
matter for them. But what Ive considered is the impact on Mr N as an individual in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. Mr N was clearly frustrated and inconvenienced. I remain of 
the opinion that £100 in total is fair for the impact of LGIs service failings on him. 
Putting things right
To put things right, LGI must take the actions detailed below. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
London General Insurance Company Limited must:
Arrange for a further inspection of Mr Ns television to establish any faults and they 
should not use the same agents that previously worked on the claim. But there is no 
requirement for this inspection to take place in Mr Ns home.
Pay Mr N a total of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. (If the original £30 has already been paid, only a further £70 need be 
paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman