DRN-3611202
The complaint
Mr C complains about American Express Services Europe Limiteds (AESEL) refusal to 
give him the refund and compensation he has asked it for.
What happened
In August 2016 Mr C bought a cooker from a supplier I will call W. The cooker cost £8,200 
in total and Mr C paid for it, in part, using his credit card supplied by AESEL. 
However, at the time Mr C bought the cooker he was having work done in his kitchen, so it 
was not until around a year later that he was able to get the cooker installed. Once he began 
using the cooker Mr Cs position is that he noticed that the cooker was not working entirely 
as he expected. His stance is that his expectations were in turn based on:
What he says he was told by W when he bought the cooker. 
The brochure for the cooker which he tells us W supplied. 
What the manufacturer of the cooker told him.
On this basis Mr C suggests that the cooker was misrepresented to him. In other words, his 
position is that in the course of the sales process he was given false information about how 
the cooker would work. Further Mr C suggests he relied on this information and would not 
have entered into the contract but for this information.
Mr C complained to W. It rejected his complaint. W subsequently went out of business. Mr C 
also got in touch with the cookers manufacturer who ultimately inspected the cooker. The 
manufacturer found the cooker was working as it should do. Therefore, still unhappy with the 
cooker, Mr W took the matter up with AESEL. While this was going on, Mr C decided to sell 
the cooker. But he got much less for it than he had paid for it, Mr C wants AESEL to refund 
the balance and to compensate him for what he sees as his consequential losses.
AESEL did not accept that the cooker had been misrepresented. It followed it was not willing 
to make the payment to Mr C that he wanted. Further, it pointed out since Mr C no longer 
has the cooker it could not investigate his points any further. In particular it was not possible 
now to get a report on the cooker from an expert.
Dissatisfied, Mr C came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. He did not recommend upholding it.
AESEL accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr C did not. 
In summary, in his response to the recommendation Mr C, suggested that neither AESEL 
nor this service had looked at his complaint correctly. Specifically, he indicated that, up until 
now all that had been looked at was whether the cooker worked correctly, and that is not his 
complaint. Rather, his complaint is that the cooker does not work in the way he was told it 
would work. Moreover, according to Mr C we did not have to concern ourselves with the 
absence of an experts report and the inability to now commission one. This is because in his 
view, such a report would only be necessary if he was complaining about the quality of the 
cooker and he is not.
Mr C indicated that he wanted an ombudsman to take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C relies on the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75). Mr C has these rights because of the type of finance he used in part, to pay for the 
cooker. The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against the supplier, he can also bring a like claim against AESEL 
provided certain conditions are met, and those qualifying conditions are met here.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint, Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr C pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. This service is an alternative to the courts.
Mr C is very clear he bases his complaint on misrepresentation. In particular he tells us that 
W made representations in the sales process and that those representations were made in 
the sales brochure too and by the manufacturer directly. He suggests these representations 
were false and he relied on them to his detriment. In this context misrepresentation means a 
false statement of fact that a consumer relied on which induced him to enter into the 
contract. Therefore, what I have to look at is, on balance what representations were likely 
made, when were they made and were they false. And after Ive looked at all that I can then 
assess whether AESEL acted inappropriately.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
What was likely said to Mr C and his wife during the course of the sale
Mr C talks about both verbal and written misrepresentations. That said it is difficult to tell 
what verbal representations Mr C suggests were made as the information I have available to 
me focuses mainly on what is said in the brochure for the cooker. Indeed, Mr C also says 
that his complaint is predominately based on statements by [the manufacturer] including in 
their brochure. Mr C has talked about a specific verbal representation made by W during the 
sales process where his wife was told the cooker would perform just like an Aga with the 
benefit of a grill.  But this representation does not appear to be the thrust of Mr Cs 
complaint.
However, I have been provided with the brochure and I do find it likely that during the course 
of the sale W would have said things that were also said in the brochure. And I also find it 
likely that W did make the like an Aga comment to Mr Cs wife. Im also satisfied that these statements were statements of fact and not mere advertising puff, which would not be 
representations.
That said, a misrepresentation has to have been made before the contract was made. Mr C 
has talked about subsequent conversations he had with the manufacturer. These 
conversations came after the sale so anything said in those conversations cannot be 
misrepresentations. 
Written misrepresentations
Mr C relies on points made in the brochure. The difficulty for him, is again, in order to 
demonstrate misrepresentation, he had to have seen the brochure, read it and it must have 
impacted his decision to buy, as I have already mentioned.  But it is not clear to me when he 
did see and read the brochure. From what Ive seen it appears Mr C was given the brochure 
by W after the sale. He talks about W having provided him with the brochure and it seems 
likely that the time it would have done that is after the sale. If that were so, then he could not 
have been induced to enter into the contract by the brochure. But that is not fatal to his 
complaint because I have already found that verbal representations were most likely made, 
and they were most likely in line with the passages Mr C highlights from the brochure. 
That said, even if I did find that Mr C did read the brochure before the contract was made 
and what was said in it, influenced his decision to purchase that would not be the end of the 
matter. Id still then have to consider whether Mr C had demonstrated the falseness of the 
representations, I look at this point below 
Why I cant fairly or reasonably find AESEL acted inappropriately
I accept that on balance, W said the things Mr C says it did, but it does not automatically 
follow these things were false. To assess this there would need to be information to show 
how the cooker actually performed and whether this was in line with what was said.  And that 
is the assessment AESEL had to make.
I recognise that Mr C tells us the cooker did not work how he was told that it would. Whereas 
the gist of what W and the manufacturer said in response was that the cooker did work as it 
was described. Moreover, they suggest that any discrepancy between the description and 
the actual performance that Mr C experienced was down to user error in general or due to 
his dissatisfaction with design features. It is clear therefore that I have two very different 
versions of the same events here. That is where an experts report is necessary, I agree with 
AESEL on this point.
I take on board that Mr C does not agree an experts report is required, but I dont see it like 
that. In order to uphold his complaint, I have to have information to show that the cooker did 
not work in the way Mr C was led to believe it worked. And to fairly assess that in this 
instance what is needed is an experts report from an independent third party. There is no 
such report and there is no possibility of getting one now. On that basis, I have no proper 
grounds for saying that it is fair or reasonable to say AESEL acted inappropriately. It follows 
that I have no proper basis to hold AESEL to account for what Mr C says has gone wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman