DRN-3705782
The complaint
Mr G and Miss S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has wrongly debited 
payments from Mr Gs sole account and that their joint account money has gone missing.
What happened
Mr G says that he and Miss S had a dormant liquid gold joint account. And that he had his 
own sole liquid gold account. Theyd seen that there was over £3,000 in the joint account 
and so had arranged for a bank card to make withdrawals. They state that instead Miss S 
was wrongly added to Mr Gs sole liquid gold account which he had opened in the last few 
years and the payments made from that account. They havent heard anything about the 
money in their original joint account and believe that this has been fraudulently embezzled.
Halifax said it hadnt made any mistake. There was no record of Mr G opening a new 
account with a deposit of £2,900 as hed claimed. Mr G and Miss S had an existing liquid 
gold joint account. A card had been issued for this account and the withdrawals made. It had 
provided Mr G and Miss S with a list of the transactions. Credits of some £3,100 had been 
added to the account between July and September 2020 and the majority of the money in 
the account had been withdrawn. This had included some transfers to Mr Gs current 
account. There was nothing to support there being any missing money as Mr G claimed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The information from 
Halifax was that Mr G and Miss S had opened a joint liquid gold account ending in digits 867 
in 1990. There was no record of Mr G having a sole liquid gold account. Halifax had shown 
that this product was withdrawn from sale in 2011 and so Mr G couldnt have opened such 
an account in 2019 as hed said.  He had made payments into the account ending 867 from 
his current account but that didnt mean it was a sole account.
Mr G and Miss S wanted their complaint to be reviewed. Mr G said that the information about 
the availability of the liquid gold account was helpful in the validity of the case. He said he 
had provided documents including a letter addressed only to him making reference to the 
account ending 867. They insist their money has gone missing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr G and Miss S have brought this complaint in good faith and genuinely 
believe that their money has gone missing. I need to make my decision on the evidence that 
is available.
I note from Halifaxs electronic records that the only joint account that they now have is the 
one ending in account number 867 and that this is a liquid gold account. This started as a 
passbook account and was opened in 1990. Mr G has provided an extract from a letter sent 
to them in June 2008 about whether they wanted to convert a different joint current account 
to a savings account. Through our investigator I asked Halifax whether what happened to 
this account could now be traced. It was unable to do so given the time that has now 
elapsed.
I can see that our investigator also asked Mr G for any evidence to show that they now had 
another joint account. He hasnt provided that. What he has shown is that at times he has 
received correspondence and a printout for account ending 867 that only shows his name. 
Halifax has explained that this relates to the way the account was set up and who is the 
primary account holder. For example, I note that on 16 June 2021 it wrote to him to provide 
details of the entries on account ending 867. It said that this had been sent to him as a 
number of transactions had been made on the account since the passbook was last updated 
in branch. And that when you next visit one of our branches to update your passbook, a 
single consolidated entry will be printed which will show the balance of these transactions 
rather than this full detailed list. I further note that on 2 July 2021 a statement for this 
account ending 867 was sent addressed to both Mr G and Miss S showing transactions 
between 2 June 2021 and 1 July 2021.
The records also show that Mr G opened sole current accounts with Halifax in March 2019 
(account ending 467) and in September 2020 (account ending 966). Hes provided a 
statement for account ending 467 which shows some transfers between this and account 
ending 867. 
In May 2021 Mr G and Miss S asked for a debit card to be issued. Ive seen the records 
showing that a card was issued to Mr G relating to account ending 867. And then from their 
statement that this card was used to make withdrawals.
I understand their position to be that Miss S was wrongly added to a sole liquid gold account 
of Mr G and the card issued for this account. Im afraid based on my assessment of the 
evidence above theres nothing to support that. They further allege that payments they 
authorised were therefore applied to the wrong account. And that their joint money has 
therefore gone missing as theres no record of any other account.
I want to assure Mr G and Miss S that I have considered their complaint points very 
carefully. And that unfortunately again based on the evidence I dont find anything to support 
these. I think there was the potential for some confusion. This was given that they had an 
account which theyd not seemed to have used for a period, was operated in part by 
passbook which only seemed to record bulk entries (as referred to above) and as they could 
at times receive information about the account only showing Mr Gs name. Credits were 
made to the joint account at around the time Mr G had opened sole current accounts. And it 
is possible he thought these were being made to a sole account. But the evidence doesnt 
support that there is missing money of some £3,000 as they claim. There is also no record of 
any other joint account being closed. And thats particularly from 2020 onwards which would 
cover the period when Mr G and Miss S believe that they saw they had money in a different 
joint account (to that with account number ending 867).
So, I know Im going to disappoint them when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman