DRN-1132154
 
The complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr M says Sunny should have known he couldnt afford to repay the loans. He had to 
borrow further from other short-term credit providers and got into a debt spiral.  
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr M between July and 
November 2018. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 03/07/2018 03/09/2018 6 £200.00   £51.08
2 05/07/2018 03/09/2018 6 £150.00   £89.08
3 18/07/2018 07/01/2019 6 £350.00 £178.11
4 22/08/2018 21/01/2019 6 £300.00 £276.25
5 17/10/2018 26/02/2019 6 £350.00 £302.40
6 18/10/2018 26/02/2019 6 £100.00 £335.73
 
In the latest assessment our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the 
loans from loan five onwards shouldnt have been given. Mr Ms borrowing pattern 
suggested he was borrowing further to service his current debt so was becoming 
unsustainable. 
Sunny disagreed. It said its affordability and creditworthiness checks were robust and could 
be relied upon for it to conclude it was reasonable to lend to Mr M
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr M had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
As outlined by our adjudicator, by loan four Mr Bs borrowing behaviour would suggest that 
he was developing a pattern of taking further loans to re-finance current borrowing. For loans one and two the monthly repayment date was due on 6 August and Mr M paid £122 and £91 
respectively (Mr M made overpayment on these two loans when compared to the 
agreement). Loan threes monthly repayment was £89 to be made on 20 August. So, in total 
the August repayments cost Mr M £302. Mr M applied for loan four two days after the 
repayment for loan three had been made. And loan four was for £300 which is the same 
amount that he had repaid in that month to service his current borrowing. 
So, at this point there is a strong suggestion Mr M was having problems managing his 
money and was starting to borrow unsustainably. 
When Mr M came back to borrow £350 at loan five on 17 October, his October monthly 
repayments on his other loans totalled £391. So, bearing in mind this is what happened in 
August I think this should have signalled to Sunny that the borrowing was by now 
unsustainable. Sunny should have recognised that Mr M was coming back for more 
borrowing days after he had made the monthly repayments on his current borrowing. 
Because of this I dont think loans five and six should have been given. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans five and six and Sunny 
should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans five and six;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans five and six from Mr Ms credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
Internal Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman