DRN-4463488
The complaint
Mr S complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a personal 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In 2012, Mr S took out a personal income protection insurance policy. In November 2022, he 
made an incapacity claim on the policy after hed undergone spinal surgery.
Unum turned down Mr S claim in December 2022. It said that in June 2018, Mr S bank told 
it that his direct debit payment instruction had been stopped. So Unum said it had written to 
Mr S to let him know that it hadnt received payment. The letter said that hed need to pay 
the outstanding premium by 14 July 2018, or the policy would be cancelled. As Unum had 
heard nothing more from Mr S, the policy had been lapsed with effect from 15 June 2018. 
Unum accepted though that it could have told Mr S that he didnt have a policy in place when 
he made the claim in November 2022. This would have avoided Mr S completing the claim 
form and providing supporting medical evidence. It apologised for the inconvenience this had 
caused him and the impact on him and it said it provided feedback to the relevant team.
Mr S was very unhappy with Unums decision and he complained. He said he hadnt 
received Unums letters, which had been sent by standard post, rather than recorded 
delivery. And he felt it should have done more to check whether he wanted to cancel the 
policy before taking the decision to lapse the contract in July 2018. Mr S said too that hed 
contacted Unum in 2021 to look into making a claim and had been led to believe hed have 
three years of cover. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he noted that the 
policy terms allowed Unum to cancel a policy if premiums were unpaid. He was satisfied that 
Unum hadnt been able to collect Mr S premium in June 2018 and that it had written to him 
to make him aware of what had happened. He was also satisfied that Unum had sent Mr S a 
letter letting him know that the policy had been lapsed. 
As there was no record of Mr S contacting Unum in 2021, the investigator didnt think he 
could make a finding on what had likely been discussed. And he felt Unums apology for 
failing to check whether Mr S had a live policy before sending out a claim form was enough 
to put right its mistake.
Overall, the investigator was persuaded that Unum had acted in line with the policy terms 
and conditions and he didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He maintained that 
hed contacted Unum in 2021 about making a claim and had been told he couldnt claim on 
two policies. He said that hed been sent a claim pack in November 2022, which had been 
very difficult for him to complete and hed since lost access to Unums online portal. He 
strongly felt that Unum should do all it could to ensure that a policyholder wanted to cancel 
their contract. He considered that his policy had been cancelled because Unum had 
reviewed the risk he posed and had decided it was too high. So he thought Unum had 
falsified the 2018 letters to justify its position. He felt Unum hadnt taken any responsibility for 
its failings and had left him in a very difficult situation. And he believed things could have 
been resolved years ago if Unum had communicated effectively or sent letters by recorded 
delivery.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, I dont think Unum has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent to us. I 
understand Mr S has been through a very difficult time and I was sorry to hear that hes been 
so unwell. Within this decision though, I havent addressed each point Mr S has made and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr S policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Unum has 
treated Mr S fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S 
contract with Unum. Section three of the policy terms is called Premiums and is set out on 
page eight of the contract. This includes the following terms:
a) Your plan begins on the start date and will continue as long as we receive the 
premiums shown in the plan schedule or in any written notification from us that the 
premiums have changed.
b) Monthly premiums must be paid by direct debit on the dates they are due. We may 
terminate your plan with effect from the due date if you do not pay the premium on 
the due date.
...
e) If, having missed a premium due date, you wish to reinstate your plan, you may do 
this up to 90 days after the date the last premium was paid. By paying us all the 
missing premiums and making arrangements for future premiums to be paid.
Mr S paid his policy premiums by monthly direct debit. I think Unums policy terms make it 
sufficiently clear that monthly premiums must be paid when theyre due, or the policy may be 
cancelled with effect from the due date.
Unum has provided us with evidence which shows that it was unable to collect Mr S monthly 
premium in June 2018. It seems the direct debit had been stopped, although it isnt clear 
whether the direct debit was cancelled by Mr S, or the transaction simply couldnt be paid by 
his bank. Im satisfied then that Unum has demonstrated that it couldnt collect Mr S June 
monthly premium.
Ive seen copies of the letters Unum sent Mr S following the missed premium. Both letters were addressed to Mr S at the address Unum held on file  which is the same address Mr S 
has given to us. The first letter was dated 19 June 2018 and stated:
We have been advised by your Bank/Building Society that you have cancelled the Direct 
Debit Instruction in favour of Unum Limited.
If you wish to cancel your policy no action is needed - the policy will be cancelled on the date 
stated below. Alternatively, if you are changing your bank details, would you kindly complete 
and return the enclosed Direct Debit Instruction. In addition a chequeis required for the 
outstanding June premium.
To ensure that cover remains in force we must receive your payment within the next 25 
days. Please send us your cheque, together with the payment slip overleaf and the 
completed Direct Debit Instruction, in the pre-paid envelope provided.
We regret that the policy will be cancelled if we have not received the premium by 14 July 
2018. This means you will lose the valuable protection provided by this policy.
As Unum didnt receive a response from Mr S, it lapsed the policy in line with the terms and 
conditions and it sent a follow-up letter on 15 July 2018, which stated:
Further to our letter of 19 June 2018 we note that we have not received a reply from you 
and as a consequence your policy has now been cancelled with effect from 15 June 2018.
If you wish to restart your policyplease do not hesitate to contact us on the above 
telephone number.
In my view, Unum clearly explained that if Mr S didnt make payment and send a new direct 
debit instruction, the policy would be cancelled. As payment wasnt received, Unum clearly 
told Mr S that the policy had been cancelled with effect from 15 June 2018. This was in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. And I think Unum was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
terms of the contract to cancel the policy. I appreciate Mr S feels that Unum falsified its 
records and these letters because it no longer wanted to insure him, but Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that this was the case. Instead, Im satisfied that Unum cancelled the 
policy due to Mr S non-payment of premium in June 2018 (or afterwards).
I appreciate Mr S feels that Unum should have done more to check whether he did want the 
policy to be cancelled. Its unfortunate that Mr S says he didnt receive Unums letters, but as 
Ive explained, they were addressed to the correct address on file for Mr S. I cant fairly hold 
Unum responsible if these letters werent received. As Unum didnt hear from Mr S following 
its letter of June 2018, I dont think it was unfair for it to conclude that Mr S no longer wanted 
the policy and to proceed with cancellation. In any event though, we have no power to tell a 
business how to operate or to change its procedures and practices and so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to find that Unum should have sent the letters by recorded delivery or 
followed-them up by phone.
Mr S says he contacted Unum in 2021 to look into making a claim and wasnt told his policy 
had been cancelled. Unum says it cant find any record of Mr S calling at that time and I 
havent seen any email evidence from around 2021 to show that Mr S got in touch. So while 
I dont doubt what Mr S has said, it would be difficult for me to find, on balance, that Unum 
did make any error at this particular point. Unum accepts though that it could have told Mr S 
that his policy had been lapsed in November 2022, when he called to make a claim. I agree 
that this would have prevented Mr S from going to the time and trouble of completing the 
claim form. Unum has apologised for its failure to tell Mr S upfront that he didnt have a live policy and has provided feedback to the relevant team. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
response to put things right in all the circumstances.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, while I sympathise with Mr S position, because I 
appreciate hes in a difficult and stressful situation, I find that Unum acted in line with its 
terms and conditions when it cancelled his policy in July 2018. This means therefore that 
unfortunately, there was no policy in force in 2022 when Mr S came to make an incapacity 
claim. And so overall, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to turn down Mr S incapacity claim 
and I dont think it treated him unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman