DRN-4277065
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost as the result of an investment scam. 
Mr S is represented by a third party but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all the submissions as 
having come from him alone.
What happened
Mr S came across an advert on social media which offered an investment with a company Ill 
call P. He registered his interest and was contacted by a representative of P. Mr S was 
given comprehensive information and was persuaded to open a new account in order to 
purchase crypto. Ps representative guided Mr S through the steps he needed to take to 
invest with them. Mr S started with small payments and increased his payments on the 
guidance of Ps representative after he saw his investment was doing well. 
When Mr S could no longer make contact with P and could no longer access his trading 
account, he realised hed been scammed. Mr S reported the scam to NatWest and 
requested that it return the following payments:
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
payment PayeeAmount 
(£)Running 
total
1 25 October 2022 Faster PaymentMr S own 
account £20 £20
2 25 October 2022 Faster PaymentMr S own 
account £20 £40
3 25 October 2022 Faster PaymentMr S own 
account £1,000 1,040
4 26 October 2022 Faster PaymentMr S own 
account £4,000 £5,040
5 26 October 2022 Faster Payment Mr S own 
account £4,000 £9,040
NatWest declined to return Mr S payments. Unhappy with its response, Mr S referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think NatWests decision was an 
unreasonable one. She didnt think the payments were all that unusual or suspicious in 
appearance when considering Mr S account history. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the larger 
transfers he made were to his own account with NatWest. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Mr S made his payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
All of the payments were sent to an account in Mr S name. It was from that account that he 
purchased crypto and sent the crypto to the scam wallet, so Ive factored this into my 
decision. 
The first three payments
I agree with our investigator and I dont think I can fairly say that the first three payments 
were particularly large, unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. They were in keeping 
with Mr S normal account activity when considering his previous account spend. 
Payments four and five
Whilst payments four and five were made on the same day and were for a large sum in total, 
Ive considered Mr S previous account history. 
Ive noted Mr S made a payment of £4,334 in December 2021. He also made transfers to 
two different accounts of £5,000 and £62,000 on 22 July 2022. Mr S says these were 
accounts held with NatWest but Ive noted that both accounts were in his name and not 
accounts that Mr S regularly sent payments to. So aside from payments four and five being 
to a new payee, NatWest would have reasonably known that the new payees account 
belonged to Mr S. And when considering his account activity, hed previously sent larger 
sums on the same day to accounts in his name that he didnt regularly send payments to. 
I dont think payments four and five - taken individually or collectively - were sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic. And I dont think NatWest ought to have reasonably suspected 
that Mr S account was at risk of financial harm from fraud and therefore warrant an 
intervention. So I dont think NatWest missed an opportunity to prevent the scam. 
Recovery
Ive thought about whether NatWest did what it ought to have done, when trying to recover 
the funds for Mr S. 
Mr S transferred funds to an account in his name. From there, he purchased crypto and 
moved it onto a wallet address of his choosing (albeit upon the scammers instructions). If 
NatWest tried to recover the funds, they could only have tried to recover funds from Mr S 
own account and it appears he would have moved all of those funds on and if not, they 
would be in Mr S control to access as and when he wishes. So, I cant say that NatWest 
acted unfairly by not attempting to recover Mr S funds when he reported the scam.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr S loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman