DRN-3227215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc led them to believe they could 
extend the term of their interest only mortgage. But when they came to do so, the bank 
declined to extend the term. They said that has forced them to sell their home for a reduced 
amount to get a quick sale.
What happened
In 1998, Mr and Mrs C took out an interest only mortgage over a term of twenty years. The 
mortgage was originally taken out with Britannia, which is now part of The Co-operative 
Bank.
In 2008, when they took out a new interest rate product, Mr and Mrs C said Britannia told 
them that the term of the mortgage was unimportant as it could be extended at any time. 
They said they selected the term of ten years based on this information and if they had 
known that it might not be straightforward to extend the term, they would have considered 
whether to have a longer term.
In 2018, Britannia wrote to Mr and Mrs C giving them three options, one of which was to 
extend the term of their mortgage, which Mr and Mrs C agreed to.
When the term ended Britannia wouldnt extend the term of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C said 
they were left with no choice but to sell their home. They said that there was diminution in 
value of around £25,000 because it was a forced sale. They also said they want £5,000 to 
reflect the stress and pressure they were put through  particularly as it was during the 
Covid pandemic and they were vulnerable and not able to show prospective buyers around 
their house. Mr and Mrs C added they wanted an apology and confirmation no adverse 
information will be recorded on their credit file.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They made a number of points, including:
They couldnt know there was a complaint until the term extension had been declined.
Their property was up for sale in 2014/15 so it was unreasonable to suggest they should 
have applied for a term extension in 2013/14.
They had the right to expect the verbal and written representations from Britannia were 
honest, truthful and do not give false expectations. They were genuinely given the 
impression that the mortgage term was unimportant because extensions were granted to 
people in their seventies. And their credit history and loan-to-value were both very good.
Britannia hasnt provided phone conversations where it gave them the misleading 
information.
Britannia called them many times over a bank holiday. This was not fair and reasonable.
Britannia has traced outgoing phone calls  but not incoming calls from them.
It was unfair to press a vulnerable and elderly couple to sell their home during a 
pandemic when they were not allowed viewings. They had a right to expect support from 
Britannia.
It is generally accepted that there is a difference between an open market sale and a 
forced sale  usually around 20-30%. The ability to conduct a sale free of pressure is 
crucial to obtain a fair market price.
This was their family home and they were trying to downsize in a fair way so that they 
had enough equity to live on. 
They did not turn down any proceedable offer on their home. They were doing everything 
they could to sell it and they reject any implication they were being greedy.
Britannia should confirm that it hasnt recorded any adverse information on their credit 
file.
Further phone information should be requested from Britannia.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C said that Britannia told them that the term of the mortgage was unimportant 
because it could be extended at any time. They said that later Britannia told them that 
extensions were common.
 Even if I accept what Mr and Mrs C have said, I dont think it makes any difference to the 
outcome here. While it may have given Mr and Mrs C some comfort, it was up to them to 
decide if they wished to apply for a term extension I dont consider what Britannia told them 
could reasonably be understood to mean that a term extension was guaranteed at some 
point in the future. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that Britannia should be 
held to a comment made several years before the end of the term.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs C entered into a contract with Britannia to repay the capital balance 
in 2018. It acted reasonably by extending the term of the mortgage by two years in 2018. But 
I cant see that any realistic or viable proposals were put forward to repay the mortgage. So 
it was reasonable for it to look for Mr and Mrs C to repay the mortgage. 
I understand the timing with the pandemic was very unfortunate. But while Britannia were 
looking for Mr and Mrs C to repay the debt, it hadnt started legal action. I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence that by selling their house when they did, that Mr and Mrs C have 
actually suffered a financial loss. Selling their house how they did might have had an impact 
on the price achieved  but not necessarily. And there is no guarantee that if they had waited 
they would have got a better sale price. As Ive found that Britannia did not act unreasonably 
in looking for the mortgage to be repaid, I dont consider it was as a result of any error by it.
I also dont consider that the evidence we have supports that Britannia applied any 
unreasonable pressure on Mr and Mrs C to sell their home  even taking into account their 
age and circumstances. It was reasonable for it to seek regular updates from Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C said that Britannia attempted to contact a number of times between Friday 8 
(a Bank Holiday) and Sunday 10 May 2020. But the evidence we have only shows that two 
phone calls were made on Saturday 9 May and voicemails left. I dont consider the timing or 
frequency of the calls was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman