DRN-4191170
The complaint
Mr W complains about the affordability of a hire purchase agreement provided by Advantage 
Finance Limited (Advantage). 
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr W said it himself. 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage. The agreement ran for 48 months, Mr W was required to make monthly 
repayments of £369.09 and a final payment of £544.09. 
Mr W complained to Advantage, he said he had very little, or no money left after paying his 
bills and debts each month. He also said his income changed between taking out and 
repaying the lending, but Advantage didnt check. 
Advantage looked into Mr Ws concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said 
appropriate checks had been made as to whether Mr W could afford the agreement and said 
the loan was affordable. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because she didnt think there was 
enough evidence or information to suggest the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree and said Advantage should have done more to establish his financial 
situation at the time. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out here. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
In summary, Advantage needed to check that Mr W could make his repayments sustainably 
before entering into a credit agreement with him. It needed to check that he could meet his 
repayments out of his usual means without experiencing undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences, for example while meeting any existing commitments and without having to 
borrow or realise assets. The necessary checks needed to take into account both the nature 
of the credit (its type, amount, term etc.) and Mr Ws particular circumstances. 
My main considerations are whether Advantage completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks when assessing Mr Ws application to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his 
repayments under the agreement sustainably. If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Advantage make a fair lending 
decision. 
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr W about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check in order to understand how Mr W had managed his existing and previous finance 
arrangements. It also verified Mr Ws income, confirmed his accommodation type, his 
employment and that he had no dependents. It used statistical data specific to Mr Ws 
location and household to estimate his likely expenditure on rent, utilities and council tax. 
Advantage also considered what would have been left over to cover other expenditure and 
made an allowance of around £1,400. It noted that even after the estimated expenses had 
been taken into account, Mr W would have had enough disposable income to afford monthly 
repayments up to £369.09. 
Having said that, Ive reviewed the credit check provided by Advantage and I dont think the 
checks were proportionate, given that the check revealed Mr W had two county court 
judgements with outstanding balances. I also think Advantage couldve been more specific in 
asking Mr W about his monthly expenditure to assess his circumstances at the time, rather 
than relying on statistical data. 
Advantage says, due to Mr W passing its internal credit check it didnt think it needed to 
verify anything further before approving the finance. But given the outstanding amount of the 
county court judgements along with the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly 
repayments and the term of the agreement I think it would have been proportionate for 
Advantage to have done so to ensure it was affordable. 
Ive considered what Advantage would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Mr W has sent in some bank statements to help us 
get an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed at the time. Im not saying 
Advantage needed to obtain bank statements as part of its lending checks. However, in the 
absence of any further information, I think the bank statements will likely show a reflection of 
Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time.
Having reviewed the bank statements, I dont think they contain enough information to 
establish what Mr Ws daily living and committed expenditure at the time would have likely 
been. This is because the bank statements provided show very little committed monthly 
expenses and there are transfers of large sums each month to other accounts for which 
bank statements have not been provided. This means I cant say that the agreement should 
have been considered unaffordable. 
I have thought about what Mr W has said his expenditure wouldve been in 2017 and taking 
everything hes disclosed into account, he wouldve been left with a disposable income of 
around £1,300, out of which making a monthly payment of £369.09 wouldve been 
affordable. So even if Advantage had completed reasonable and proportionate checks, I 
think its fair to determine that the repayments wouldve appeared to be affordable. Im 
therefore not persuaded that Advantage acted unfairly in approving the finance.
As Mr W hasnt been able to demonstrate that his agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Advantage ought to have known he may have been struggling to 
make the repayments due under the agreement. Further, having reviewed Mr Ws account 
statement I cant see that he missed payments and voluntarily terminated the agreement in 
April 2019, paying off the outstanding balance. 
Mr W has said that his income changed between taking out and repaying the finance and 
Advantage didnt check. But from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr W disclosed any 
changes in his circumstances, or that there was anything to prompt Advantage to believe 
Mr Ws income had changed. So, I wouldnt have expected Advantage to be aware that a 
change in Mr Ws circumstances couldve impacted his ability to repay the finance.
 Whilst Ive carefully thought about everything Mr W has told us, Im afraid it doesnt affect my 
findings. I dont think there is enough evidence or information to suggest the agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr W, or that Advantage acted irresponsibly in granting the credit. 
My final decision
For reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman