DRN-3942596
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the 
money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr K says
Mr K saw an investment advert on a well-known social media platform. The company (F)
offered investment services, described by Mr K as It was a simple investment of $250 and
the company owned a "robot" of some sort that would invest in stocks and shares every day
based on trends and sophisticated calculations and guaranteed profits.
Mr K said his friends had made some money investing in shares and he was interested so
he carried out some basic research into F. He concluded that the information hed been
able to gather stacked up and their reviews were positive.
He explained that he didnt register at that point and was called the following day by an
employee of the business  Ill refer to them as P. They went into more detail about their
robot and how their services worked. Mr K decided to make the initial investment with a
payment using his debit card.
Mr K was given access to an online trading account where he explained he could see how
his investment was performing. He was then asked to open an account with a legitimate
cryptocurrency (crypto) broker who Ill refer to as M. He was asked to download software to
his computer that enabled P to take control of it to assist Mr K with the investments and
transfers.
Mr K saw small profits every day from his initial investment and was in contact with P via a
messaging app. P maintained regular contact with Mr K and continually offered other
opportunities for making money. After a few weeks, Mr K made a £2,000 payment from his
Halifax account to his account with M. For ease Ill list all the payments made by Mr K:
Date Amount
23/12/2020  £251.84
12/01/2021  £2,000
25/01/2021  £5,000
23/02/2021  £17,000
Once the payments had been made to Mr Ks account with M, the funds were turned into
crypto assets. He was assisted by P using the downloaded software to move his funds to Fs
wallet. What this meant was that Mr Ks funds had now been transferred to the scammers.
Mr K continued to receive regular requests for more funds with ever increasing opportunities
to make money and continued to see his profits grow on the trading platform. P told Mr K
that he was transferring some of this profit back to him and moved £2,000 worth of crypto
assets back to his account with M. Mr K was convinced his investment was working and
decided to return the crypto assets back to F and also made a further payment of £5,000 to
add to his investment.
It was at this point that he received a call from Halifax about this payment and Mr K
explained that P had told him the bank may contact him, he said:
P had already said i may need to speak to my bank to notify them that I wanted to make this
payment, and advised at the time what to say, i.e. this was an investment into shares. I
spoke to the bank and said i wanted to make the payment to M to purchase shares and it
was acknowledged and subsequently approved. At the time i had P advising me on every
detail and i must admit he made me feel very comfortable and had ways of convincing me
what we were doing was absolutely fine and there was nothing to worry about.
The payment was released, and Mr K continued to chat with P and eventually saw that his
initial investment of just over £7,000 had now reached about $100,000. Mr K was told hed
have to move to a different trading platform and pay £17,000 because he had to show hed
invested a certain amount of his profits. He was told this payment would be returned to him
in about 20 minutes and would ensure he didnt have to pay any future tax linked to his
investment.
Mr K didnt have those funds and persuaded his wife to give him the money. He described
her as being reluctant to do that but was persuaded by P that it was necessary to release his
profits. Mr K made the payment, and the crypto funds were transferred to F. After this Mr K
was unable to get his investment paid to him and P continued to ask for further payments
needed to insure his investment. Mr K was unable to raise these funds and eventually
realised hed been scammed.
Mr K approached Halifax about the scam and asked for a refund.
What Halifax says
Halifax identified an unusual payment being made from Mr Ks account when he tried to
transfer the £5,000 payment and prevented it leaving his account until they discussed it with
him. During a call with Mr K, the following was discussed:
Halifax asked what the payment was for and described various scams to Mr K,
including crypto investment scams that often originate via social media platforms.
Mr K was told that he shouldnt hold anything back during the discussion and
he should answer honestly.
Halifax said the vast majority of these opportunities turn out to be fake and there is
no intention of providing the advertised services.
Mr K explained that hed found out about it through friends whod been doing it for a
while.
He said that hed approached M about the account which was the same process as
his friends had gone through and hadnt gone via a third party.
Mr K was asked if hed received any funds back and Mr K said he hadnt but was in
the process of doing so.
He confirmed hed carried out a fair bit of checks and background checks, including
checking that F was registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr K confirmed that hed not been told to lie (by a third party) to Halifax and was
happy to go ahead with the transaction, then Halifax released the payment.
When Mr K approached the bank for a refund, they declined because his funds had beenlost from his account with M. Halifax did acknowledge that they hadnt dealt with Mr Ks
scam report as effectively as they might have and sent a payment of £100 to recognise the
poor service.
The investigation so far
Mr K remained unhappy with how Halifax had handled this situation and brought his
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into
by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information concerning the scam. Mr
K provided details of the conversations hed had with P and an explanation of what
happened. Halifax provided details of the accounts used by Mr K and various reports about
the transactions and their assessment of the situation. A recording of the call held with Mr K
about the £5,000 payment was also provided.
After assessing the information, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint, believing that
Halifax couldnt have done any more when they spoke to Mr K on the telephone and pointed
out the circumstances of similar scams. They said that based on Mr Ks answers, it was
apparent that he wanted to make the transaction despite what Halifax had said. It was also
noted that Mr K said hed checked the FCA website and at the time, it held a warning record
about F. Our investigator felt that if Halifax intervened on the last payment of £17,000 (it
didnt) then Mr K would still have gone on to make it.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators outcome and in summary said:
Halifax failed to protect him and referred to the BSI PAS: 2017 17271 and other fraud
prevention regulations.
Halifax failed to adhere to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and the
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam code.
If Halifax had asked probing questions  he would have answered them.
He believed that his case was being judged differently from other similar cases.
He believed he was vulnerable which Halifax didnt take into account.
Mr K accepted that hed authorised the transactions himself.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice (including those referred to by Mr K in his submissions to this service);
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The CRM referred to by Mr K doesnt apply in this case. Thats because it only applies to
payments made to another person and Mr K paid into his own crypto account.
It is accepted that Mr K authorised the scam payments from his Halifax account. So,
although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr K is presumed liable for
his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a
valid payment instruction has been received Halifaxs obligation is to follow the instructions
that he provides.However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its
customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a
payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the
account. In such circumstances Id expect Halifax to intervene and ask more questions about
the intended transaction before processing it. Id also expect Halifax to provide suitable
warnings about common scams to help its customers make an informed decision about
whether they want to continue with the payment.
Thats the case even though Mr K was sending funds to an account in his own name. By
January 2019, banks like Halifax had, or ought to have had, a good enough understanding of
how crypto scams work  including that a customer often moves money to an account in
their own name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able to identify the
risk of harm from fraud.
The first two payments made by Mr K (one by card and one by bank transfer) werent
unusual when compared to the activity on Mr Ks accounts, so I wouldnt expect them to be
identified by Halifax as suspicious and I think it was reasonable for the bank to process
them.
The third payment (£5,000) was stopped by Halifax and the circumstances were discussed
with Mr K. The call (which Ive summarised above), identifies that the payment to M isnt the
first time that Mr K transferred money to them. He was asked to be honest and confirmed he
hadnt been asked to lie. But in the call, Mr K omitted to tell the call handler that he was
being advised by F and they were investing his funds. Mr K gave the impression during the
call that it was M that he was solely dealing with which wasnt the complete picture.
Mr K explained his reasoning for the way he handled the call, that P briefed him about the
call and how to answer the banks questions. Mr K was left feeling very comfortable about
the situation. I asked Mr K for some more information about the call and why he didnt
mention his arrangement with F. He later said:
I was under the scammers spell, acting on their instructions, most of the time. They would
tell me what to do, and do everything on my behalf and just have me confirm and nod all
the time, thinking that my money is safe with them because they would show me on the
trading account that I was actually making money.
These people brainwashed me by giving me a cover story which I should tell the bank if
they asked about the purpose of the transactions, which is that I was investing in Crypto
Currency, and buying to hold. Also, they were telling me how the bank doesnt want to
release the money even though its mine because they are using it for other purposes. So,
they manipulated me and convinced me that the bank will try to stop the transactions. So,
the scammers told me to ignore the bank because they dont want you to release the
money.
In relation to the £5,000 payment that was later released by Halifax, I think that they
attempted to probe the reasons for the investment Mr K was involved in and the omissions
made their job that much more difficult. I dont think it was unreasonable that Halifax
released the payment based on what they were being told by Mr K.
Mr K was subject to continued messaging by P. Reading through those messages, Mr K was
resistant to some of the schemes suggested to him, mainly because he didnt have the funds
available. At one-point Mr K was offered an opportunity to purchase gold which was
described by P as a trick. Mr K would invest £5000 and receive $4500 profit from it in a
single transaction. He was then offered an investment of £15,000 which would see his returndoubled in two hours and was only turned down because Mr K was out of funds and didnt
think he could persuade his wife to loan him the money. Mr K was later told his investment
had reached about $23,000 and P told him hed give him £25 - $30,000 of his own money
and the following week make it up to $100,000. Overall, I can see how Mr K was on the
receiving end of continued attempts to get him to invest  although I think some of these
schemes sounded too good to be true.
Mr K has described how his trading account showed profits and when it hit about $100,000,
he was told he had to make a further payment to avoid taxes at a later date. Mr K didnt have
those funds and persuaded his wife to give him the money. It was transferred into his
account before Mr K sent it to M and onwards to Fs wallet once it was turned into crypto
funds.
Halifax didnt identify that payment as suspicious and I think they should have done. I accept
theyd previously spoken with Mr K about payments to M, but this latest payment was the
last in a series of increasing payments to M, which is often a factor in crypto scams. This
payment was triple the previous one and made only a month or so after the last one.
I think the circumstances of this last payment should have alerted Halifax to contact Mr K
and further discuss the situation. Its not unreasonable to expect Halifax to have a
proportionate response to the activity they see on their customers accounts. I think the
tripling of payments to M was something that warranted a more in-depth conversation with
Mr K.
Ive taken into account the briefing(s) Mr K had received from P about what to say to the
bank if it questioned the payments he was making, and its not unreasonable to assume Mr
K would take a similar approach to a call from the bank about the £17,000 payment as he
did to the £5,000 payment. But the situation had changed somewhat since the previous call.
Mr K had borrowed funds from his wife and she, according to Mr K, had some reservations
about giving her husband these funds as they were her savings, and they had a young
family at the time to think about. If Halifax had spoken to Mr K about the £17,000 payment
and obtained the background to the tripling of the transfer, I think it would have been difficult
for Mr K to give a cover story. Theres no evidence hed been given a specific and
convincing one in the particular circumstances of the last payment (by P). He knew it wasnt
for an investment and was told it was to avoid paying taxes at a later stage  so I think
theres a good chance he would have said that to Halifax. He had no reason to lie about it at
that point and given the misgivings of his wife, I dont think it would have taken much to
break the scammers spell here.
I think that Halifax had an opportunity to prevent the last payment and protect those funds.
My current thinking is that they should refund it, but I also need to consider if Halifax should
bear the whole loss or just part of it.
Should Mr K bear some responsibility for the final payment of £17,000?
Ive thought carefully about this, and I accept that Mr K was an inexperienced investor,
particularly in relation to crypto investing. Its apparent that the scammers were convincing
and provided an investment account for Mr K to view, through which he could see that his
investment was performing well. But I dont think that Mr K carried out some of the checks he
referred to in his conversations with Halifax and our service  particularly in relation to the
FCA.
If he had, he would have seen that F had a warning against it on the FCA website that was
posted prior to his first payment to them and similarly the firm that he made the first debit
card payment to had a wealth of warnings about them around the time he was investing. TheFCA first posted a warning about them prior to the last payment made by Mr K and there
were negative reviews about them scamming people posted in January 2021. Although this
was after Mr K had paid money to them, the fact that they were part of the firm he paid funds
to remains relevant to the overall picture of the legitimacy of F.
Mr K hasnt provided or referred to any contracts or documents he was required to
review/sign or submit as part of his arrangement. Its unusual for a legitimate firm to operate
in this way and as far as I could see, the firm has no address on their website. All these
factors should have been a red flag for Mr K.
A review of the type of offers Mr K was getting showed some unlikely investment
opportunities, including doubling his money for a two-hour investment. I dont think they
sounded at all realistic including his trading account which appeared to show hed made
$100,000 in less than two months on an investment of around £7,000.
Ive also taken into account the approach Mr K took with Halifax when he spoke with them.
Its difficult to be certain what he was told at the time because his versions of what he was
told by F have evolved, but what I have concluded is that Mr K omitted relevant detail from
his conversation with them. He led them to believe hed done more than he had and made
checks when its apparent he hadnt. I think if hed have been open about the arrangement,
Halifax could have advised him about the likelihood of being scammed.
I think that Mr K contributed to his own losses and should bear some of the responsibility. My
current thoughts are that Halifax and Mr K should bear the loss evenly for the final payment
of £17,000.
Funds recovery
Ive thought about whether Halifax did enough to recover Mr Ks funds when they were
advised of his losses. Unfortunately, there werent any because the funds he transferred to
M had already been converted to crypto and sent to Fs wallet. I dont think that Halifax could
have reasonably done anything to recover them.
Regarding the first card payment made by Mr K, the only option available to Halifax for
recovery of it would have been a chargeback request. This is a system operated by the
payment processor (usually VISA or Mastercard) and is subject to strict rules. Where its not
considered likely that the application would be successful, we wouldnt usually insist that one
was carried out. In this case, the firm receiving the payment was considered part of the
scam, so I dont think that any chargeback request would have been successful, and it was
reasonable for Halifax not to undertake one.
My provisional decision
Overall, my current thoughts are that the first two payments were unlikely to raise any
suspicions from Halifax. They carried out a conversation with Mr K about the third payment
and from the answers they received, I think it was reasonable for them to release it. I think
they missed an opportunity to further question Mr K when the final payment tripled in value
and I think they could have prevented this loss, but I also think that Mr K should bear some
responsibility for this. Im intending to uphold in part this complaint for a 50% refund of the
final £17,000 payment to Mr K (£8,500). Im not intending to award any interest towards this
payment because it was effectively money borrowed from Mr Ks wife, rather than funds from
Mr Ks own accounts.
I invited Mr K and Halifax to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me toconsider before issuing my final decision. Halifax accepted my provisional decision and Mr K 
wanted to further explain the impact this loss had on him and his family. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Halifax accepted my provisional decision and the impact on Mr K 
has already been taken into account, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this 
final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
I read Mr Ks comments concerning the impact this loss had on him and his family and Id 
like to thank him for taking the time to explain the difficulties he and his family experienced.
Whilst Halifax have accepted they should have intervened, I dont think any further redress is 
warranted here. Ive no doubt being caught up in such a scam was unpleasant and was also 
damaging financially, but I think its worth reiterating that the real culprits are the scammers 
who persuaded Mr K to send them his (and his wifes) savings. 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Halifax should now pay Mr K £8,500 for the loss he incurred 
from the scam. Id also like to acknowledge that Halifaxs response to the provisional 
decision was to make an offer to refund this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax are instructed to settle this 
complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman