DRN-4294285
The complaint
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr N are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) customer service 
when they called to request guidance about a claim. 
What happened
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr N had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. 
They were due to go on holiday when Mr D became unwell. Mr N attempted to call Aviva to 
seek advice on the medical evidence it would need if they needed to make a claim for 
cancellation. But Mr N was unable to get through, was on hold for hours and didnt receive a 
call back in a timely manner. 
Mr N complained to Aviva who accepted that there were delays in trying to contact the 
claims department and offered Mr N £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr N didnt think this was enough and so he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that the £50 compensation already 
offered by Aviva was adequate. Mr N disagreed and in summary, has made the following 
comments:
The Consumer Duty applies
Other rules and principles apply
Aviva didnt consider Mr Ds illness, the wider circumstances, caring responsibilities 
and the worry of having to rearrange holiday plans
He wishes Aviva hadnt sold the policy to him and it must have known about its long 
wait times
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld as I agree that the £50 already 
offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain 
why. Although I havent commented on everything Mr L has said, I have considered it 
carefully and will instead focus on what I consider to be key to my decision.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. And an insurer should treat customers fairly 
and provide appropriate advice and guidance. 
Mr N has referred to the Consumer Duty. This was introduced on 31 July 2023 and isnt 
retrospective so it doesnt apply to his complaint as the event he is complaining about 
happened before the Consumer Duty was introduced. However, I will consider the rules and 
standards that were in place at the time instead, as set out above. 
Key timeline
12 July  Mr N called Aviva twice and couldnt get through. He was on hold for just under an 
hour for both calls. He sent an online message and received a reply to say it had been 
forwarded to the claims department.
13 July  Mr N called Aviva but no one was available and he got a recorded message. He 
sent another email saying he hadnt heard from anyone in claims. 
14 July  Mr N received a message to say his concerns would be raised with the customer 
care team.
18 July  Mr Ns flights were cancelled by the airline for a different reason unconnected to 
his initial contact with Aviva.
19 July  Mr N called again and used the call back facility.
25 July  Aviva contacted Mr N.
Mr N is unhappy with the level of compensation offered to him for the poor customer service 
he received when trying to contact Aviva. So I will focus on whether the level of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
When considering what fair and reasonable compensation is, I consider the impact on the 
customer and how long the problem persisted. If the issue isnt long lasting and doesnt have 
any severe or long-lasting consequences then a small award to recognise the impact and 
distress and inconvenience over a short period of time is appropriate.
As Mr N was told by Aviva on 12 July that his message had been forwarded on and on 14 
July that his concerns would be raised with the customer care team, I am satisfied that he 
did receive a response and wasnt completely ignored for days. I accept Mr N was unable to 
get through to the claims department due to the lines being busy and this caused him 
inconvenience for having to hold and frustration as he wasnt able to get through to anyone. 
But I dont think the issue was so long lasting that the stress and inconvenience was 
significant. 
I understand Mr N wanted to discuss a potential claim with Aviva and he was unable to get 
through. But as Avivas lines were busy, he had to wait to speak to someone and I agree that 
this is poor and he wasnt able to get the advice and guidance he needed promptly. But I 
dont think this had any long last effects or caused a financial loss so I wont be awarding 
any further compensation. Mr N was able to rearrange his holiday plans and Aviva paid the 
claim. 
Mr N says Aviva shouldnt have sold the policy to him if it knew it had long wait times. Aviva 
accepted that it had delays which caused Mr N inconvenience and offered compensation 
which I consider is reasonable. I am also aware that it settled the claim so Mr N didnt lose 
out financially as a result of the wait times. 
Mr N has said Aviva failed to award compensation for their full circumstances. But the 
compensation Aviva awarded relates to their wait times and Mr Ns inability to get through and not the wider circumstances of the claim which Aviva cannot be held responsible for 
such as Mr Ds illness, caring responsibilities, having to rearrange travel plans and their 
health conditions. I consider Avivas offer is reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
If Mr N now wishes to accept the compensation already awarded by Aviva, he should let 
Aviva know.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, Mrs D and 
Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman