DRN-1637203
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service provided by National Westminster Bank Plc when it set up 
and then removed a repayment plan to pay off an overdraft on his bank account. 
What happened
Mr T spoke to NatWest in June 2019 because hed exceeded the overdraft limit on his 
account. NatWest increased the overdraft limit, refunded the charge it had made for 
exceeding the limit and set up a repayment plan to reduce the current overdraft by a stated 
amount per month. The first payment was due on 1 July 2019. Mr T didnt have sufficient 
funds in his account on that day and the repayment plan was broken. NatWest said Mr T had 
made a debit card payment online at the end of June and although he had sufficient funds in 
his account at that time, the amount was not debited to his account until a few days later, 
when he didnt have sufficient funds due to other transactions. 
Mr T wasnt happy the repayment plan had been broken. He said it was unfair that payments 
he made are shown as pending and thinks the system NatWest uses is unfair as it allows for 
spending to continue. He also thought NatWest unfairly applied charges to his account. 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint as it said it hadnt made any errors. It said it hadnt 
charged Mr T when the repayment plan had broken. It said a new repayment plan had been 
arranged in July 2019 and the first payment had been made successfully.
Our investigator agreed with NatWest that it hadnt done anything wrong. He thought it had 
supported Mr T in getting his account back on track and didnt think it needed to do anything 
more. He also explained why some payments are shown as pending on his account and why 
theres often a difference between the funds shown on his account as being available and 
those shown as his account balance. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view. He said hed wanted the repayment plan to 
start at the end of each month, as that is when he gets paid, rather than the beginning of the 
month. He said the plan wouldnt have broken had the payment been taken at the time 
agreed and hes now having to pay slightly higher repayments under the new plan. A second 
investigator considered the evidence available but she was satisfied NatWest had told Mr T 
that the plan was due to start on 1 July 2019. 
As Mr T remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Let me explain why.
I should start by clarifying the limits of this service. Our role is not to regulate the processes 
and systems of financial institutions, or to penalise businesses where these systems are 
insufficient. This is the role of the regulator. Our role is to look at individual situations and 
consider whether the business has, in the particular circumstances, treated the consumer unfairly. Where the business has not acted fairly, we look at compensation to put the 
consumer in the position they should have been in, either by compensating financial loss 
and/or compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ive reviewed the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint to see if hes been treated unfairly and 
has suffered a financial loss because of it. But from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think 
NatWest has treated Mr T unfairly. When he exceeded his overdraft limit and discussed his 
financial situation with NatWest in June 2019, it refunded the charge it had applied, 
converted his account to one that would help him avoid unarranged overdrafts and set up a 
repayment plan to get his account back on track. I think that was a fair and reasonable 
response to the situation.
It was unfortunate the repayment plan broke in July 2019. That was because Mr T didnt 
have enough funds in his account on the day he was due to make the agreed payment. But 
NatWest didnt charge him for not adhering to the repayment plan and so he didnt lose out 
financially because of that. And NatWest took steps to continue to support Mr T by setting up 
a new repayment plan within the next few days. 
Mr T says the new plan disadvantaged him as he needs to repay slightly more each month 
than he did under the first plan. That might be the case but I dont think the first plan broke 
due to any error or mistake by NatWest. The evidence shows he didnt have enough funds in 
his account on 1 July 2019. And NatWest has confirmed it considered Mr Ts income and 
expenditure when agreeing to the second repayment plan to make sure the slightly higher 
amounts were affordable. 
Mr T says he wanted the plan to start at the end of the month rather than the beginning as 
thats when he gets paid. But the evidence Ive seen shows the plan was due to start on 
1 July 2019 and that NatWest made Mr T aware of this. So I dont think NatWest did 
anything wrong here. 
Mr T is also unhappy about the system used by NatWest to record payments as pending and 
thus allowing further payments to be made before the pending payment is claimed. He thinks 
this is unfair and makes it difficult for him to manage his account. As Ive said above, its not 
my role to regulate the processes and systems used by banks. Our investigator explained 
the pending payment process and there is more information on NatWests website if Mr T 
wants to find out more. NatWest has said its the consumers responsibility to keep 
themselves up to date with their balance and ensure they have enough money in their 
account to support any spending. I think thats a fair and reasonable expectation and, in light 
of the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think NatWest has treated Mr T 
unfairly.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman