DRN-1741266
The complaint
Mr R and Miss W have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Platinum and Premier packaged accounts in June 2010 and June 2011 respectively.
They say, amongst other reasons, the Platinum account was mis-sold because they were 
told upgrading to a Platinum account was the only way to get an overdraft on a joint account 
and that it would help them improve their credit score. They say their account was then 
upgraded to the Premier account automatically because the Platinum account was no longer 
available.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr R and Miss Ws complaint and he didnt think that the 
packaged accounts had been mis-sold. Mr R and Miss W disagreed and so the complaint 
has been referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain to Mr R and Miss W that where matters are in dispute 
and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have decide what I think was most likely to 
have happened, based on everything that is available.
Platinum account
Mr R and Miss W say they werent presented with fee-free options. But as the account in 
question was initially opened as a fee-free account before it was then upgraded a short while 
later, Im satisfied that they were aware fee-free accounts were generally available. But Mr R 
and Miss W also say that they were led to believe that they had to get a Platinum account as 
it was the only way to get an overdraft on a joint account. And Lloydss notes show that a 
£500 overdraft was added to the account at the same time. So I have carefully weighed up 
what Mr R and Miss W have said alongside all the other evidence that is available.
Lloyds has provided a copy of its customer notes, which were recorded by the member of 
staff on the date the account was sold to Mr R and Miss W. They say:
Upgraded Jt A/c [account number] to Platinum A/c so both parties can get the benefits and 
downgraded [different account number] Changed savings a/cs to Easy Savers for better 
int. Mobile phone ins forms sent off today. Also gave them hm ins quote.
Lloydss records show that two mobile phones were then registered under the cover 
provided by the Platinum account on 3 July 2010. 
I note that one of the features of the account at the time was that it included a £250 interest 
free overdraft facility, with preferential interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than 
that amount. Therefore, when weighing up what I think was more likely to have happened, I 
think that its more likely that Mr R and Miss W agreed to the Platinum account because one 
of them already had it and so wanted to add it to a joint account so they could both benefit 
from it without having to pay extra. And although Mr R and Miss W say they were told they 
had to get it to get an overdraft, I think its more likely they agreed to it because of the 
benefits it provided, rather than because they thought they had to have it or thought it might 
help their chances of getting further credit.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr R and Miss W. This meant it had to check that it 
was a good fit for their circumstances. 
In addition to the mobile phone insurance and overdraft benefit, the Platinum account also 
offered worldwide travel insurance and enhanced breakdown cover. Mr R and Miss W say 
they never travelled, so I dont think they necessarily had a need for the travel insurance. But 
I understand they did drive and so couldve been able to benefit from the enhanced 
breakdown cover that the account provided. Therefore, on the whole I dont think it was an 
unreasonable recommendation to have made in the circumstances. And although Mr R and 
Miss W say that they already had breakdown cover, it wouldve been up to them to cancel 
any existing cover they had.
As well as making sure it was a good fit for Mr R and Miss Ws circumstances, Lloyds had to 
provide important information about the account to ensure they understood the exclusions 
and limitations that may apply. Mr R and Miss W say that one of them has asthma so 
discovered they were not covered by the travel insurance. However, as Asthma was a no 
screen condition at the time, they wouldve still been covered by the travel insurance. 
Moreover, as Mr R and Miss W say they never travelled I cant see how this wouldve 
negatively affected them even if the condition was not covered.
Premier account
Mr R and Miss W have said that their account was automatically upgraded to a Premier 
account because the Platinum had been withdrawn. However, the Platinum account was not 
withdrawn from sale in 2011 i.e. when their account changed to a Premier account. And 
Lloyds notes from the time say:
Platinum account upgraded to premier account as customer will benefit from the ID Aware 
service and also £500 overdraft facility interest free.
I can also see that Mr R signed a Premier account upgrade form. Therefore, Ive no doubt 
that the account was upgraded because Mr R had agreed to it, rather than it being upgraded 
automatically by Lloyds, as Mr R and Miss W say it was.
Like the Platinum account, the Premier account was also recommended by Lloyds. And the 
main features that were present on the Premier account that were not present on the 
Platinum account was a £500 interest free overdraft facility, enhanced breakdown cover, 
enhanced travel insurance, as well as the ID Aware feature. 
I can see that Mr R and Miss W continued to register phones and made several claims on 
the breakdown cover. And they were regularly using their overdraft. I also note that where Mr 
R and Miss W recall being told that having a packaged account would help improve their 
credit score, the ID Aware benefit gave them access to their credit files. So I think its possible that their recollections about their credit score being mentioned during the sale 
could actually relate to being told about this benefit on the account.
Overall, I think Lloydss recommendation was not unreasonable in the circumstances. I think 
that Mr R and Miss W were aware they didnt have to agree to the upgrade if they didnt want 
the extra features. And while I accept that Mr R and Miss W might not have needed all of the 
features that came with the account, as it was sold as a package, they couldnt pick and 
choose what it came with. 
The application form Mr R signed suggests that Mr R was given important information about 
the account. However, I cant be sure if Lloyds gave them all of the important information 
about the account that it shouldve done. 
But looking at everything Mr R and Miss W have said and provided about their 
circumstances at the time, Ive seen nothing that makes me think they wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, had they been given even more information about it. For 
example, Asthma was still a no screen condition  so they wouldve been covered for it by 
the travel insurance should they have relied on the Premier travel cover. And as they say 
they didnt travel, I cant see why being given more information about a benefit that they had 
little need for wouldve put them off agreeing to the packaged account as a whole.  
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what they mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, they now believe these packaged accounts 
were mis-sold. But based on what they have said, alongside all of the available evidence 
that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that they were mis-sold. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman