DRN-2906448
The complaint
Miss Ks complained (through her father, Mr K) that National Savings & Investments (NS&I) 
didnt deal properly with her investment in index linked savings certificates when it matured  
meaning she lost a significant amount of interest.
What happened
Miss K is a minor.  So shes authorised her father to make a complaint on her behalf.  
In 2011, Mr K invested £15,000 in NS&I savings certificates on Miss Ks behalf.  He made an 
identical investment in his own name, and in the names of his wife and other child.  The 
investment was for a five year term.  Interest was to be index linked to the Retail Price Index, 
plus 0.5% compound interest.
The investments matured in 2016.  Mr K says his wife received a letter setting out the 
options for the money  which was rolled over into a new five year certificate.  He says Miss 
K didnt get a letter.  But he assumed that, as Miss K had an identical product, the same 
thing would happen to the investment in her name.
In early 2021, Mr K found out that Miss Ks investment hadnt been rolled over into a new 
product.  Rather, when it had matured in 2016, it was moved to NS&Is Residual Account  
where it earned a much lower rate of interest.
Mr K complained on Miss Ks behalf that NS&I had delayed paying out the proceeds of the 
account.  And he said Miss K had lost £1,918.44 because NS&I hadnt rolled the investment 
over into a new product  as theyd done with his and his wifes.  Mr K asked NS&I to pay 
Miss K the lost interest and pay compensation for his own time and effort in pursuing the 
complaint.
NS&I investigated and wrote to Mr K with their findings.  They explained that, once a child 
was seven years old, they became responsible for their own investment.  So, when it 
matured in 2016, theyd written to Miss K to tell them this and to explain some changes 
theyd made to savings certificates.  The key change from Miss Ks point of view was that 
NS&I changed the minimum age at which someone could savings certificates to 16  so 
Miss K wasnt eligible for a new account.
NS&I said the letter also told Miss K that, if they didnt hear from her within 30 days, her 
investment would be moved to the residual account.  They didnt hear from Miss K  so 
thats what they did.  They said they werent responsible for Miss K not receiving the letter.
While NS&I didnt uphold the complaint Mr K had brought on Miss Ks behalf, they did accept 
theyd delayed repaying Miss Ks investment and that had inconvenienced Mr K. They paid  
Mr K £50 for this.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response and brought the complaint to us.  He told us he 
didnt think it was appropriate to ask someone of Miss Ks age to make financial decisions of 
this nature.  And he said he thought the only fair outcome would be for NS&I to pay the 
interest he thought Miss K shouldve received.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that NS&I didnt need to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.  He noted that NS&Is terms and conditions were 
clear that, once a child reaches seven, they will be the person from whom NS&I will take 
instructions.  And he noted those terms changed in 2012 and were sent to Miss K in 2016 
with the maturity letter.
He was satisfied that the letter was correctly addressed, even though Miss K didnt receive it.  
And he said Mr Ks wife had received a maturity letter which contained the new terms  so 
he couldve seen from that thered been a change.  
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr K has made on Miss Ks behalf.  Ill 
explain why.
I understand Mr K doesnt think its right that NS&I treated Miss K as their customer and 
expected someone of her age to make their own financial decisions.  But that was NS&Is 
policy at the time.  And its not my role to comment on a businesss policy  its to decide 
whether that business has dealt fairly with the particular customer making the complaint.  
And I can only decide NS&I should do something more to resolve this complaint if I dont 
think theyve done that.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions in place in 2011, when the original investment was 
made.  Theres a section headed Who may purchase and hold Certificates which says:
20   Individuals Individuals of at least 7 years old may purchase and hold Certificates:
(a) in their own name; or
(b) jointly with one or more other individuals.
Any other person may also purchase Certificates on your behalf and in your name.
21   Children Children under 7 years of age cannot purchase Certificates.  Certificates may 
be purchased for a child under 7 years of age to be held in the name of the child.
This makes it clear that NS&I will treat those under seven differently from older children  
even though theyll still be children.  By 2016, Miss K was over seven.  So Im satisfied that, 
when NS&I wrote to her about the maturity of the investment in 2016, they did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
I appreciate Mr K says Miss K never got the 2016 maturity letter.  But I cant say that NS&Is 
fault.  
Ive seen a copy of the letter that was sent.  Although its addressed to Miss K, its clear 
NS&I recognise theyre writing to a child, as the letter suggests Miss K show the letter to a 
parent or carer.  It explains that, because she was under 16, Miss K couldnt hold savings 
certificates after the maturity date and sets out her options.  And it says that, if Miss K 
doesnt reply, the money would be moved to NS&Is Residual Account  which had a low 
interest rate.
The letter was correctly addressed.  Mr K hasnt said he told NS&I there was any issue with 
receiving mail.  And his wife received a letter about the maturity of the investment in her name.  So I cant say there was anything that should have alerted NS&I that Miss K hadnt 
received the letter.  
And in the absence of such evidence, I think NS&I were entitled to move Miss Ks 
investment to the Residual Account.  Thats what the letter said theyd do.  And, as they 
dealt with the investment as they said they would, I dont think they need to do any more to 
resolve Miss Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint about National Savings 
and Investments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman