DRN-3685255
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) didnt give him sufficient 
warning that his investments would change as a result of changing his retirement age on its 
online pension portal. 
What happened
On 19 May 2020, Mr H changed his retirement age from 65 to 55 on Aegons online pension 
platform, to see what impact this might have on his retirement options.
Later that day Aegon sent Mr H an email saying his retirement age had been changed. And, 
on 27 May 2020, it sent Mr H a statement confirming his investments had been switched. 
In April 2021, Mr H complained to Aegon that, in summary, as his financial adviser had 
advised him not to make any changes to his fund he was just modelling changes to his 
retirement age using Aegons online goal planner, but this initiated an actual change to his 
fund. He said he wasnt made aware at the time or from Aegons follow up correspondence 
that this would be the case. He said the letter Aegon sent him detailing the fund switch didnt 
raise an alarm, as he assumed this was into another fund with the same investment profile. 
Mr H wants to be compensated for the resulting drop in the performance of his fund during 
this time.
In response, Aegon said Mr H requested the changes having been made aware of the 
potential impact on his investments. 
In May 2021, Mr H changed his retirement age back to 65 and Aegon switched his pension 
back to his original investment fund.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said Aegon had given him 
sufficient information at the time to make him aware he was changing his retirement age on 
his pension, which would impact on his investment fund. 
Mr H didnt agree. He added, in summary, that there wasnt sufficient warning that changing 
this on the goal planner would make real time changes and lead to an investment switch. He 
said Aegons warning was too generic and that its follow up letter wasnt clear, as the funds 
had almost the same name. So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Aegon has sent us screenshots of what Mr H would likely have seen at each step when 
using its online platform. And I can see that after updating his target retirement age using the 
goal planner and being given a forecast, Mr H would have been shown a message headed 
confirm changes that said he could change the retirement age on his pension to match his 
new target age.
The option for Mr H to change this would have then shown on his to-do list and selecting 
this would have taken him to a page headed Update your pension retirement age. On this 
page, under Important things to remember, Aegon explained that if Mr H is invested in the 
lifestyle fund  which he was  this would automatically adjust based on his new retirement 
age. So I think Aegon made it sufficiently clear to Mr H that he was no longer just using a 
planning tool and that changing his retirement age might affect certain funds, including his.  
Mr H was then shown the current retirement age on his pension and the new age this would 
be updated to once he clicked update. And, after doing so, he was presented with a screen, 
which said the retirement age on his pension had successfully been updated. So I think 
Aegon gave Mr H clear enough information to make him aware hed made actual changes to 
his pension.
The purpose of the lifestyle fund  which Mr H doesnt seem to dispute that he aware he was 
was invested in as a member of his workplace pension scheme  is to automatically move a 
persons investments from high to lower risk assets the closer they get to retirement age, to 
help protect the fund value shortly before they retire. This is set out in the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs fund. So Mr H bringing forward the retirement age on his pension in the 
way I think he did meant his investments were sold and reinvested, without needing a 
particular instruction from him. 
I can see Aegon emailed Mr H later that day confirming hed changed his retirement age on 
his pension when it said Weve updated your account and Your retirement age has 
changedThanks for updating your profile with your retirement age. Weve amended our 
records with this. And a few weeks later Aegon sent Mr H a letter which said his 
instruction to switch investments had been carried out. While I appreciate Mr Hs comments 
about this correspondence, I think it was sufficient to alert him to having made changes 
which impacted on his actual pension. Especially given Mr H says he hadnt planned on 
making any changes to his fund. And when taken alongside the information hed already 
been given on Aegons online portal. 
In summary, I think Aegon gave Mr H clear enough information to make him aware hed 
made changes to his pension and that this might impact his funds. This means Im not 
asking Aegon to do anything, as I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman