DRN-2300313
The complaint
Mr N and Ms Z complain that certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds (the underwriter) is 
unfairly withholding legal expenses cover because their solicitor will not sign its terms of 
business.
Society of Lloyds uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance, so any 
reference to the underwriter in this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and is also set out in a 
previous decision issued in relation to Mr N and Ms Zs initial complaint about the 
underwriter and its handling of their claim. So I will not repeat all the details again here. For 
ease of reference, I will refer only to Mr N throughout the decision as the primary 
complainant.
In summary, Mr N and Ms Z previously complained that the underwriter had acted unfairly 
because it said that their chosen solicitors (whom Ill refer to as Firm M) would need to sign 
its terms of business before they could be appointed. 
I issued a decision on Mr Ns previous complaint about Society of Lloyds. I didnt uphold it 
as I didnt consider the underwriter to have acted unreasonably by requesting that Firm M 
agree to its terms of business before they could be appointed.
Mr N said that Firm M will not sign the terms of business as they consider their contract to be 
with him, not Society of Lloyds. Mr N subsequently raised a further complaint as he believes 
the underwriter is now unfairly withholding cover because the solicitors will not sign its terms 
of business. Society of Lloyds issued its final response on 8 September 2020. It reiterated 
the need for Firm M to agree to its terms of business, and said it was still willing to pay its 
hourly rate of £120 for one of its fee earners. The underwriter had initially agreed to pay for a 
more senior fee earner to have involvement in the case as well at £220 per hour, so long as 
their input was limited, and the majority of work would be undertaken by the junior fee 
earner. It subsequently sought clarification of how much involvement the senior fee earner 
would have but didnt receive any response. 
As a result, the underwriter said it was not prepared to cover the senior fee earners rate of 
£220 per hour when it had been given no details regarding the number of hours that would 
be charged at that rate. It said it could appoint another suitably qualified solicitor to represent 
Mr N at a lower rate, and so did not agree it was withholding cover. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Society of Lloyds had 
acted reasonably in the circumstances as it had received no response to its query regarding 
the proposed extent of the senior fee earners input, and also because the solicitors were still 
not willing to sign its terms of business in the first place. Mr N disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
In my decision on Mr Ns initial complaint about Society of Lloyds, I outlined why I thought 
the underwriter could reasonably ask Firm M to agree terms of business before they could 
be appointed under the policy. In summary, I said there is reference made in the policy to the 
insurer appointing the advisor (i.e. on agreed terms) and paying legal expenses on the 
standard basisagreed in advance by us. I considered that, together, this could 
reasonably be interpreted to mean that terms (such as the rate of pay for the appointed 
advisor, for example) would need to be agreed in advance by the two parties (i.e. by way of 
agreement of terms of business). 
Mr N says that he will not ask Firm M to sign the underwriters terms of business as he 
considers the relevant contract/agreement is between himself and the solicitor for the 
provision of legal services, whereby he will pay Firm Ms invoices upfront and send the bill to 
the underwriter  thereby removing the need for its involvement in the legal action itself. But 
as Ive already outlined, the policy terms and conditions state that the advisor must be 
appointed (and therefore overseen) by the underwriter, which means that Mr N is not 
contractually entitled to his proposed arrangement whereby he appoints the solicitor and 
simply sends the insurer the bill. For cover to be provided, the policy is clear that the advisor 
must be appointed by Society of Lloyds, which necessarily entails the two parties agreeing 
terms of business. 
However, the underwriter cannot refuse cover for Mr Ns claim simply because his chosen 
solicitors will not sign its terms of appointment. But it has said that it is willing to appoint 
another solicitor (i.e. that is prepared to sign its terms of business) to act on Mr Ns behalf. 
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that would suggest Firm M is the only law firm 
capable of pursuing Mr Ns legal claim, or that they have any particular expertise that would 
necessitate their acting on his behalf. So I dont think the underwriter can be said to have 
unfairly refused cover for the claim by failing to appoint Firm M in these circumstances, 
because it is still willing to appoint other solicitors.
Ive also considered whether Society of Lloydss has acted reasonably with regards to the 
rate it offered to pay Firm M. Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses 
Insurance) Regulations 1990 provides a policyholder with the freedom to choose their own 
solicitor in certain circumstances (such as the point when proceedings are issued)  but the 
underwriter had already given Mr N the freedom to choose his own solicitor in June 2019. So 
it had to ensure that it didnt frustrate Mr Ns freedom to choose his own solicitor. 
Our approach to such issues follows the Court of Appeals decision in Brown-Quinn & Anor v 
Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Anor [2012] EWCA Civ 1633, where the court held that 
a legal expenses insurer has the right to restrict what they would pay to a non-panel solicitor, 
provided the remuneration is not so low as to render the policyholders freedom of choice 
meaningless.
There is no limit specified within the policy regarding the rate at which the underwriter will 
pay the solicitor. But it is entitled to ensure that the costs being incurred are reasonable and 
proportionate.
The underwriter initially agreed to pay Firm Ms rate (consisting of one fee earner being paid 
at £120 per hour, who would be conducting the majority of the work, and another more senior fee earner at £220 per hour, so long as their input was limited). Society of Lloyds say 
they sought further clarification regarding the amount of billable hours Firm M expected to 
charge at the higher rate, but says that it received no response. In these circumstances, I do 
not consider it unreasonable for the underwriter to have declined to cover Firm Ms higher 
rate when it had been given no proposal regarding the extent of the senior fee earners input. 
It had no assurances, for example, that Firm M would not charge the majority of work at the 
higher rate. And although the underwriter is obliged to meet reasonable legal costs under the 
policy, this does not mean it has to agree to pay the solicitors highest rates. 
So, given that the underwriter was willing to negotiate its rate with Firm M (but seemingly 
received no response) and given that they have at least agreed to pay the rate of the fee 
earner at £120 per hour, I cant say theyve necessarily restricted the cover to such an extent 
that it rendered Mr Ns freedom of choice meaningless. Society of Lloyds also says it can 
appoint another suitably qualified solicitor to represent Mr N at a lower rate than £220 per 
hour. Indeed, theres nothing to suggest that his claim is particularly complex or would 
require a senior fee earner to take it on, so I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here.
In any event, the rate at which the underwriter is prepared to pay the solicitor is largely 
immaterial given that Firm M is seemingly not prepared to agree any terms of business. 
Even if Society of Lloyds had agreed to the higher rate, for example, it would still be under 
no obligation to pay Firm Ms legal expenses when theyre still yet to be officially appointed 
under the policy. 
Should Firm M continue to refuse terms of business with the insurer, Mr N would be entitled 
to ask Society of Lloyds to appoint another solicitor which, from what Ive seen, the 
underwriter has said it is prepared to do. So I cannot reasonably say that it has unfairly 
withheld cover in these circumstances, and I will not be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman