DRN-3927537
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service he received from Madison CF UK Limited, including that he 
couldnt get through to their telephone lines to make payments from overseas.
What happened
Mr F, who presently resides overseas, had a personal loan with Madison. Mr F had a direct 
debit set up from a UK bank to make payments to the loan, but he had to cancel the direct 
debit because his overseas bank wouldnt allow him to transfer money to the UK to fund the 
scheduled payments. Mr F tried to telephone Madison to make the payments but was 
repeatedly unable to get through. 
Mr F wasnt happy about this, or with the service he received from Madison when attempting 
to resolve the issue via online chat. Mr F also wasnt happy that, because he wasnt able to 
make the loan payments on time, Madison reported missed payments to his credit file. So, 
he raised a complaint.
Madison looked at Mr Fs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr F had said that because he 
had moved overseas, the only way he could pay was via his overseas debit card over the 
telephone. But Madison didnt feel theyd acted unfairly, and instead felt that the difficulties 
Mr F was experiencing was a consequence of his decision to move overseas. Mr F wasnt 
satisfied with Madisons response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Madison had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems clear that many of the problems Mr F has encountered in not being 
able to pay the instalments due on the loan are as a result of Mr F now residing overseas. 
Indeed, Mr F has confirmed that his overseas bank wont allow him to transfer money to the 
UK, meaning that he had to cancel the direct debit hed set up from his UK bank account to 
repay the loan. And because this also meant that Mr Fs only option to pay was via his 
overseas debit card via telephone, this meant his inability to get through to Madison on the 
phone, because of high waiting times, meant that he effectively couldnt pay.
I can appreciate how this would have been frustrating for Mr F. But while the fact that his 
overseas bank wouldnt allow him to fund his UK bank account as hed intended is 
unfortunate, it doesnt follow from this that Madison have acted unfairly in any way.
I say this because Madison cant control the number of people that are trying to contact it on 
the telephone at any one time. And it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct Madison 
to alter their operational policies, including regarding Madisons online chat agents only 
being able to process payments from UK debit cards or in their not calling overseas 
telephone numbers.
Ultimately, it wasnt Madisons fault that Mr F chose to move overseas to a country where 
restrictions on sending money to the UK existed, and whereby Madisons own policies as 
described above made meeting the contractual payment obligations of the loan difficult for 
Mr F to meet. Instead, while I acknowledge the difficulties Mr F faced, I feel that those 
difficulties were resultant from his own choice to reside overseas and are therefore 
difficulties it was incumbent on him to overcome. 
Mr F may argue that he tried to overcome these difficulties but was unable to do so. I can 
sympathise with Mr F in this scenario, but again, it doesnt follow from this that Madison have 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly.
Indeed, I dont feel that Madison have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here. This is 
because Im satisfied that Madison presented Mr F with the same options to pay as any 
other loan account holder, and also because Im similarly satisfied that Madison werent fairly 
obliged to present Mr F with any other options beyond those. As such, when Mr F didnt 
make the contractual monthly payments on the loan, Im satisfied that it was fair for Madison 
to report those missed payments to the credit reference agencies as they did  even in 
consideration of the difficulties Mr F faced.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Madison to take any further action. I trust Mr 
F will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman