DRN-4300800
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Moneybarn No. 1 Limited reported his arrears on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M has a regulated conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. He was paying his 
monthly payments by direct debit. In February 2022 he called Moneybarn to tell them he was 
in financial difficulties, due to his wife having developed serious illnesses as a result of long 
covid. This meant that she was no longer working, and Mr M had become the main carer for 
his wife and disabled children. This meant he was now working part time, and his income 
was now less than a third of what it had been. He asked for help.
The result of that phone call was that Moneybarn agreed not to take Mr Ms direct debit 
payment for that month. This was reported on his credit file as a missed payment in 
February, March and April. He made his February payment in April. He had also made his 
March and April payments on time, so from May 2022 the account was reported on his credit 
file as up to date.
In May 2023 Mr M complained to Moneybarn that he hadnt known that the breathing space 
he had been given the previous year would affect his credit file, and that if he had known 
then he wouldnt have taken it. Moneybarn did not uphold his complaint. It told him that its 
call handler had told him during the call that the late payment would be recorded as arrears. 
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr M brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint either. She said that because Mr M had not 
kept to the terms and conditions of his agreement, the missed payment marker on his credit 
file was accurate and had been correctly reported by Moneybarn. Mr M disagreed, and he 
asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He said that the missed payment marker had 
caused his mortgage application to be declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also considered the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and 
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies published by the Information Commissioners Office 
in July 2016. This says, on page 4:
In general, the reporting of arrears indicates that the account has not been 
maintained according to the terms and conditions. The purpose of reporting 
arrears is to indicate at the earliest reasonable opportunity that a customer is 
showing signs of potential financial difficulty or inability to manage his/her 
finances.
That is to prevent people in financial difficulty taking on further debt and getting into greater 
difficulty.
However, it goes on to say on page 5:
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed 
between you and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the 
CRAs. This may also occur if there is a temporary change in terms (that is 
not part of the product) such as a payment holiday
So a payment holiday should be recorded as an arrangement to pay, or AR, rather than 
as just a missed payment, or 1.
I have listened to the recording of the phone call. At about 21 minutes and 50 seconds into 
the call, Mr M (having explained his circumstances) asked for a payment holiday, and the 
call handler told him that they dont do payment holidays anymore, as that had only been a 
temporary measure during the covid pandemic. (Mr M pointed out that covid hasnt gone 
anywhere though, a point to which the call handler had no answer.) Instead, all she could 
do was put a do not take marker on his next payment, which was due on 23 February, and 
she put his account on hold until 1 March. She had tried to put it on hold for longer than that, 
but Moneybarns system wouldnt let her (at about 20 minutes and 15 seconds).1 The effect 
of the do not take marker was that Moneybarn would not try to take that direct debit 
payment, so that Mr M would not be charged a missed direct debit fee if the payment was 
claimed and it did not go through. It was not an agreement that he didnt have to pay it on 
the normal due date, and so it was not a payment holiday.
The call handler told Mr M (having previously discussed this option) that that will go onto 
your agreement as arrears, and that this would go on his credit file (from 19 minutes and 55 
seconds). She repeated that again around a minute later, in response to a question about 
that from Mr M. So he was told that his credit file would have arrears reported on it, and he 
chose that option anyway. Effectively, he had no other option. (The only alternative option 
which he was offered, which would not have affected his credit file, was to move the 
payment due date back by five days, from 23 to 28 February, but Mr M said that would not 
help him.)
I have considered whether Moneybarn should have done more to help Mr M, by giving him a 
payment holiday of a month or two, since computer says no is not an excuse. But I dont 
think it would have made any difference to Mr Ms mortgage application if that had 
happened. Firstly, an arrangement to pay marker on a credit file would still be viewed 
negatively on consideration of a mortgage application. And secondly, this account was not 
the only account which had negative information reported about it. Mr Ms credit file also 
shows another account with arrangements to pay in February to March 2022, and for six 
months in 2020. His utilities had been in arrears since 2019, and there had been a default on 
another account in August 2020. Those two accounts were not settled until some time after 
the phone call with Moneybarn. These are all reasons why a mortgage application might be 
declined, and so I am unable to conclude that the arrears reported by Moneybarn caused 
that to happen, or that an arrangement to pay instead would have made a difference.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
1 She also booked him a telephone appointment with a debt advice charity.Richard Wood
Ombudsman