DRN-3648298
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund a withdrawal where a thief stole 
his money after it dispensed.
What happened
In 2021, Mr R made a £300 cash withdrawal from his Santander account, at a Santander 
cash machine. Santander processed the transaction correctly and the cash was dispensed 
successfully. But a robber knocked Mr R aside and stole the cash. Mr R asked Santander for 
a refund of the cash.
Santander expressed their sympathies but explained that this was a police matter.
Mr R argues that Santander are responsible since the money was stolen from one of their 
cash machines. And he argues that they had a duty of care to reposition the machine, place 
CCTV cameras facing it, and put up signage with warnings about possible crime  which he 
feels would have prevented this from happening.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mr R has been the victim of a distressing crime here, and so he has 
my sympathy. I also appreciate that hes been candid and open with us in his submissions.
However, Im afraid that Santander were only responsible for issues such as unauthorised 
withdrawals, or cash not being dispensed due to a problem with the machine. When we talk 
about things like a bank executing a customers orders with reasonable care and skill, its 
more to do with making sure that the transaction gets processed correctly and that the 
machine actually dispenses the cash.
But its already been established that Mr R did authorise the withdrawal, that Santander 
processed the transaction correctly, and that the cash was dispensed successfully. There 
was no error on Santanders end. They are not responsible for a third party stealing cash, 
even if it happened to have been dispensed at one of their ATMs.
Santander were not at fault for the robber taking Mr Rs money after it was dispensed. The 
robber was at fault for the robber taking Mr Rs money. And the organisation thats 
responsible for addressing the robbers crime is the police, rather than Santander.
As our investigator explained, the positioning of cash machines, the setting up of CCTV, and 
the placement of warning signs do not fall under our jurisdiction. They are not regulated 
activities that we cover.
Mr R has made a number of arguments around an implicit duty of care. And I have taken into 
account all that hes said. But to summarise, Mr R has essentially asked me to:
find that a general duty of care extends to specific duties which bind Santander in this 
particular case, despite such duties not being set out in the relevant regulations, nor 
being reasonably implied by the wording of those regulations, nor even being within 
the scope of those regulations; then-
assume that those duties stretch to specific activities such as adding CCTV or 
warning signs  despite such specific actions being nowhere in the relevant rules, 
requirements, or standards of good industry practice; then-
assess how well Santander carried out these unwritten, unstipulated activities, 
despite the fact that they are activities which fall outside of our jurisdiction; then-
assume that had Santander done those activities, it would have definitely prevented 
or solved this specific situation, despite the fact that  for example  warnings are 
often ignored and that it is often difficult to catch criminals or secure convictions even 
with abundant CCTV.
But I cannot fairly or reasonably take any of those steps  let alone all of them. These 
arguments are far too assumptive, are not what Id consider to be reasonable interpretations 
of the relevant rules, and would require us to assess activities that were not allowed to 
assess because theyre outside of our remit.
I do understand that this was a significant amount of money for Mr R to lose, and so I can 
completely understand why hed want to put his case forward as best as possible. Im sorry 
to hear about what the robber did, and I hope that they are brought to justice. But Im afraid 
that really is a matter for the law enforcement services. I have not found that Santander are 
responsible for what happened, nor that they got anything substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman