DRN-4225789
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Healthcare Finance Limited trading as Tabeo (Tabeo) is holding her 
liable for the debt on a loan which she says she neither applied for nor consented to. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in July 2022 a loan was taken out with Tabeo in Mrs Cs name for 
£5,809.25. Mrs C subsequently got in touch with Tabeo to let it know she hadnt applied for 
the loan. Tabeo investigated things and ultimately couldnt reach agreement with Mrs C, so 
she referred her complaint about Tabeo to us. Our Investigator couldnt resolve things 
informally, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our 
Investigator.
In this case, my first consideration is: did Mrs C enter into this loan agreement, or was it 
done without her knowledge and/or consent as she alleges? 
On this Ive found Mrs Cs submissions to be plausible and persuasive. That is, Mrs C has 
said she didnt apply for the loan, and it was taken out in her name without her consent by 
her adult daughter, and I believe her. Tabeos records indicate it had already declined a 
couple of loan applications made in Mrs Cs daughters name; and one made in Mrs Cs 
name had been cancelled. And Mrs C has provided copies of emails between her and Tabeo 
dated between 29 June 2022 and 1 July 2022 in which Mrs C told Tabeo that she was aware 
her daughter was trying to take out finance and she didnt want to be involved in any part of 
the finance with this person so please could Tabeo withdraw her details from the application. 
So, Im satisfied its most likely Mrs C didnt want to be involved in any finance with her 
daughter, and that its most likely the loan application on 12 July 2022 (granted by Tabeo  
made in Mrs Cs name but with an email address and phone number on there that would 
appear to be for Mrs Cs daughter) was not made by Mrs C and that Mrs C didnt consent to 
it. On this basis, Im satisfied Mrs C cant be said to have entered into the loan agreement 
with Tabeo. 
Tabeo says any determination of fraud should be decided by the police. However, theres no 
need for this here in order for me to be satisfied on a balance of probabilities that Mrs C 
most likely didnt enter into this loan agreement. And since Im satisfied Mrs C most likely 
didnt apply for or agree to this loan, I dont think it would be fair for Tabeo to hold her to the 
terms of the loan agreement she never agreed to. So, Tabeo shouldnt hold Mrs C liable for 
interest and charges, neither should there be a record of the loan on Mrs Cs credit file  so if 
there currently is, this should be removed. 
Im also satisfied in this case that it wouldnt be fair for Tabeo to pursue Mrs C for the 
outstanding loan funds. I say this because Im satisfied Mrs C appears to have not benefitted 
from these; I dont think I could reasonably say any benefit Mrs Cs daughter may have 
received from the loan funds is something Mrs C should be held responsible for in the 
particular circumstances of this case; theres no suggestion Mrs C would otherwise receive 
any of the funds back from her daughter. And again, theres no need for a police 
determination of fraud here in order for me to be able to decide these points on the balance 
of probabilities. The loan funds were paid straight for the treatment (not to Mrs C) and she 
appears to have acted reasonably and appropriately to try to mitigate matters. And Im 
satisfied it wouldnt be fair for Tabeo to pursue Mrs C for the outstanding funds  Im 
satisfied Tabeo should write off the loan. And if Mrs C made any monthly repayments Tabeo 
should also refund these to Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Healthcare Finance Limited 
trading as Tabeo to:
refund to Mrs C any repayments she made to the loan (if any); and
write off the loan and not pursue Mrs C for any repayment of the loan; and
amend Mrs Cs credit file removing any information about the loan and searches.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman