DRN-2861162
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr S deposited a cheque for £1,110 into his personal Barclays account. He 
says he received the cheque at his business premises and thought it was addressed to his 
business, though he said he could not make out the writing on the cheque.
Mr S says he wasnt expecting to receive this money, so he had waited for a few weeks to 
see if someone would contact him about it. He says when no one did, he went to a Barclays 
branch and asked the staff what to do. He says they also couldnt read the writing on the 
cheque and he says they told him to deposit it.
In June 2018, Barclays received information that Mr S had deposited a cheque that was not 
meant for him. He had since spent the bulk of the money. They closed his personal account 
and registered a fraud marker against him.
In 2021, a different bank closed Mr Ss account. Following this, he discovered the CIFAS 
marker and complained.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that the cheque was clearly addressed to someone else in neat handwriting. They 
said Mr S wasnt expecting the money and wouldve known it wasnt his to deposit. There 
was no evidence the staff had told Mr S what he said theyd told him, and the investigator 
didnt think it was likely they wouldve had any trouble reading the cheque, nor that they 
wouldve advised Mr S to deposit it. As Mr S had deposited and spent money he wouldve 
reasonably known wasnt his, they thought Barclays had added the CIFAS marker fairly.
Mr S didnt agree. He was adamant the branch staff had told him to deposit the cheque. He 
said hed never committed any other crimes, which he felt evidenced that he hadnt done 
anything wrong here either. He argued Barclays were responsible for the fraud as they 
should have stopped the cheque from clearing. He questioned why they hadnt added the 
CIFAS marker straight away and why they only closed his personal account but not his 
business account.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Barclays were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr S had tried to do something wrong. They did have to have reasonable grounds 
to believe hed misused his account, going beyond a suspicion or concern, and with 
appropriate evidence to support this. Ive carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, and I think that Barclays did have sufficient grounds to register the 
marker. Ill explain why.
Ive looked closely at the cheque in question. It was written in very clear and neat 
handwriting, and it was addressed unambiguously to a limited company whose name was 
completely different to Mr Ss name or Mr Ss companys name. I do not think its likely that 
anyone would reasonably mistake this as being addressed to Mr S or Mr Ss company. 
Its also clearly printed on the cheque who its from  so Mr S wouldve known who sent it. 
I cant see that he had any prior dealings with the cheques sender, and hes admitted he 
was not expecting any money of this amount. As far as hes told us, Mr S did not contact the 
sender or clarify why they sent the money or who it was for  but he deposited the money 
anyway. Mr S has not produced any evidence that he was entitled to this money, the cheque 
is clearly addressed to someone else, and the sender confirmed it was not due to Mr S.
Further, Mr S initially claimed he thought the cheque was for his business  but he paid it 
into his personal account. If he really believed the cheque was meant for his business, its 
not clear why hed do this. This is a minor point, but worth mentioning, as it casts doubt on 
Mr Ss version of events.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr S would have reasonably known that this money was not for 
him. And its not in dispute that Mr S willingly deposited the money into his account and then 
spent it.
Mr S says the branch staff told him to deposit this cheque, and Ive thought carefully about 
this point. I can see the cheque was deposited in a branch, though because of the years that 
have passed there isnt still a record of whether this was done at a cashiers desk or at an 
automated machine. I have also looked at Mr Ss historic account notes going back to the 
start of 2018, but there is no record of the conversation that he says took place, let alone 
anything to indicate that the staff told him to deposit the cheque.
Since theres no evidence of the conversation taking place, Ive thought about whats most 
likely to have happened. As I said before, the cheque was written very clearly and I think it 
would have been apparent it was not addressed to Mr S. So if Mr S had asked the branch 
staff about the cheque and shown it to them, I think they would have told him not to deposit 
it. What Mr S says they told him does not fit with Barclays policies or processes, and I cant 
see any good reason why the staff would have told Mr S to deposit a cheque that clearly 
wasnt his. So I dont think its likely or plausible that they did.Mr S says this is Barclays responsibility, as they should have checked the cheque and 
stopped it from clearing. But while I understand the point hes trying to make, Im afraid this 
isnt really relevant in this case. Firstly, Mr S still had a responsibility of his own to not take 
and spend other peoples money when he wouldve reasonably known it wasnt his. And 
secondly, even if Barclays had stopped the cheque, they would still have been entitled to 
register the CIFAS marker against Mr S for trying to deposit it. This marker can be registered 
if a customer attempts fraud, whether they are successful or not. So even if Barclays had 
stopped the cheque, it would not have made a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr S questioned why Barclays closed his personal account, but not his business account. It 
seems thats because the fraud took place on his personal account, not the business 
account. In any case, Mr S then closed the business account anyway, so Im afraid I cant 
see that this makes a difference to the outcome of this case.
Mr S also questioned why it took Barclays some months to close his personal account and 
register the marker. Thats because they didnt know the cheque had been deposited 
fraudulently until then. And to confirm, the marker was registered in 2018.
Lastly, I have also taken into account that Mr S says he has not been caught committing any 
crimes before or since. But while that may be true, it remains the case that here, Mr S paid in 
a cheque that was clearly addressed to someone else, which he was not expecting, and 
which he reasonably knew he was not due. And then he spent someone elses money which 
he wouldve reasonably known was not his to spend. So it was fair for Barclays to register 
the CIFAS marker. It also follows that I think it was fair they closed his personal account  
and the terms and conditions allowed them to close it immediately in cases like this.
I understand that Mr S has been going through a truly tough time recently, and I know this 
will not be the outcome he was hoping for. But Ive found that Barclays acted correctly in 
closing his account and registering the CIFAS marker, and so I cannot fairly tell them to 
remove the marker or otherwise compensate him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman