DRN-2620558
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has administered her annual 
travel insurance policy.
Mrs Ms represented by Mr M.
What happened
Mrs M took out an annual worldwide travel insurance policy with AXA in August 2020. She 
holds the policy as part of a group scheme.
In November 2020, Mr M got in touch with AXA to ask it to move the policy start date from 
August until January 2021. Thats because of government restrictions which remained in 
place as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. These meant that Mrs M wasnt able to travel as 
planned on pre-booked cruise holidays. So Mr M felt that the policy was of no use to Mrs M.
AXA told Mr M that it was offering its members the chance to cancel their policy for up to a 
three-month period. Members would have the opportunity to reinstate their policy within the 
three-month period and be entitled to the same membership number and the same benefits. 
Alternatively, AXA told Mr M that Mrs M could cancel her policy and receive a pro-rata refund 
of premium for the unused portion of cover. It told Mr M that it couldnt agree to move the 
renewal date and effectively extend the policy.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs options and so he asked us to look into Mrs Ms complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Ms policy allowed for the alteration or extension of the policy dates. 
While she accepted that Mrs M hadnt been able to travel as planned, she set out the details 
of the relevant policy cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this 
case. She explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to 
be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 August 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks between that date and the cancellation of the policy. She said that if 
Mrs Ms cruise provider hadnt refunded the costs of cruises itd cancelled, Mrs M wouldve 
been entitled to make cancellation claims under the policy.
 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But overall, she considered AXAs options had been fair and reasonable. So she didnt think 
AXA needed to do anything more.
Mr M disagreed. Ive summarised his detailed response to our investigator. He said theyd 
paid for a policy which they hadnt been able to use, due to ongoing restrictions on travel. He 
said they dont take land-based holidays and all of the cruises theyd planned had been 
cancelled due to government restrictions. He said theyd never made a claim on the policy. 
He referred to an offer AXA had previously made on Mrs Ms old policy, which allowed her to 
extend the cooling-offer period, cancel her policy and then reinstate it within three months. 
He considered AXA should extend the policy or offer a refund of the whole premium. He felt 
that AXA should give greater consideration to the circumstances surrounding the pandemic. 
Mrs M cancelled her policy with a view to renewing the policy once travel restrictions ended.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, I dont think AXA has treated her 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Ive firstly considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs 
Ms contract with AXA. The policy terms say that the policy is valid for one year. In this case, 
Mrs Ms contract with AXA began on 1 August 2020.
The policy terms also set out the relevant cancellation rights under the policy. These say:
Cancelling your travel policy
The lead member may cancel this travel policy within 14 days from the day that your travel 
policy is concluded, or the day that you receive the full policy terms and conditions 
whichever comes later. This is known as the cooling off period. We will return any premium 
paid for the travel policy providing no claims have been made in relation to the period before 
cancellation (being no more than 14 days cover). If you incur eligible claims costs within that 
period we reserve the right to require the lead member to pay for the services we have 
actually provided in connection with the travel policy to the extent permitted by law and any 
return of premium is subject to this. If the lead member does not cancel the travel policy 
during the cooling off period the travel policy will continue on the terms described in this 
handbook for the remainder of the travel policy year. The lead member can cancel this 
annual travel policy at any time after the cooling off period, there will be no return of premium 
in these circumstances.
In this case, Mrs M took out the policy on 1 August 2020. This meant her cooling-off period 
expired on 14 August 2020. And so there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules 
and guidelines for AXA to offer her any refund. However, despite it not being contractually 
obliged to, AXA offered its members the option to cancel their policy and get a pro-rata 
refund of their premium for the unused portion of their cover. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable position for AXA to take.
I should also explain its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if an insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium a policyholders paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for AXA to keep any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered while Mrs Ms policy was active. I appreciate that due to the ongoing 
restrictions during 2020, Mrs M wasnt able to travel abroad. And I also understand that Mrs 
M says she didnt travel on any holidays while her policy was on risk. But the policy wouldve 
covered any trips Mrs M mightve taken (whether in the UK or worldwide). And if the cruise 
provider hadnt refunded the cruise costs Mrs M had paid, she may well have been able to 
make a cancellation claim on her policy for the costs of the cancelled trip.
On this basis, I dont think I could fairly direct AXA to pay Mrs M a full refund of her premiums, given its already made an offer outside of the contract.
Ive then turned to consider whether AXA ought to have agreed to effectively move Mrs Ms 
policy start date until travel restrictions were lifted. As the investigator explained, theres no 
provision in the contract for policies to be deferred or extended. And while I understand AXA 
previously extended the cooling-off period for some policies in early 2020, this option wasnt 
available for the policy Mrs M took out in August 2020. Instead, AXA chose to offer members 
the chance to cancel their policy and reinstate it within three months. This was a commercial 
decision for AXA to take and it applied to all policyholders in Mrs Ms situation. So I dont 
think AXA singled her out unfairly in any way.
Overall, I dont think AXA treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably. I think it took proactive 
steps to respond to the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and 
Im satisfied its offers were fair and reasonable. So while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, 
because Im aware how strongly she and Mr M feel about their complaint, Im not telling AXA 
to do anything more.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman