DRN-2655178
The complaint
  Mr B complains about a log book loan provided to him by Logbook Money Limited, 
(Logbook Money) which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
  Logbook Money provided Mr B with a log book loan in July 2019. This loan was for £1200 
and was to be repaid over 78 weeks. A weekly repayment was £43.08, and Mr B would need 
to repay £3360.24 in total. 
A log book loan was granted on the basis that Mr B provided Logbook Money with a bill of 
sale for his car. This meant that if Mr B didnt make his loan repayments, Logbook Money 
could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He concluded that Logbook Money 
should compensate Mr B. So, he wrote to both parties and explained why. He said 
Logbook Money should have carried out further checks before it lent to Mr B. He came 
to this conclusion because he thinks Logbook Money should have further verified        
Mr Bs expenditure. He concludes that if it had done this, it would have found a 
significant gambling spend on a second bank account. Furnished with this information, 
he says Logbook Money wouldnt have agreed to give Mr B the loan.  
Initially Logbook Money responded to our adjudicator to say that it disagreed with his 
view but wanted to make an offer to Mr B to partially write off a proportion of the 
outstanding balance. It said in order to do this, it would need Mr B to provide 2 months 
worth of recent bank statements so it could see how much Mr B could afford to repay 
each month. Our adjudicator put this offer to Mr B, who turned it down. Mr B said he 
had nothing to repay the outstanding balance with. 
Logbook Money, on being informed of Mr Bs rejection to its offer then contacted our 
service and gave reasons why it didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said its 
underwriters did check Mr Bs income and expenditure from the statements he 
provided. It says it is its policy to ask if an applicant has a second bank account and Mr 
B would have been asked this question in his interview. It accepts it did not request 
sight of Mr Bs second account statements. It adds that it did carry out proportionate 
checks and also lent to Mr B fairly based on what it had in front of it. It also added that 
the gambling expenditure mentioned by our adjudicator is reasonable and in line with 
someone who is in receipt of a one-off large windfall.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Logbook Money has told our service that it asked Mr B for his income and expenditure 
and verified these amounts by checking bank statements. It says it used this information 
to decide whether to lend to Mr B or not. Logbook Money says it didnt carry out a credit 
check.
I can see from the documentation provided by Logbook Money, that Mr B declared his 
income to be £990 and his expenditure as £635. As I have already mentioned, Logbook 
Money says it verified both of these amounts by checking bank statements supplied by 
Mr B. It says by doing this it didnt see anything alarming that would warrant it making 
any further checks. But I dont agree. 
I have looked through the statements that Logbook Money would have seen and can see 
Mr B had to pay a late payment fee for having insufficient funds on a direct debit 
payment and also had a payment go out for a short-term loan with another lender that 
had not been accounted for or declared by Mr B. I think the lender ought to have been 
concerned as to whether it understood the full extent of Mr Bs commitments  Its not 
enough for Logbook Money to say it carried out certain checks  it has to act 
appropriately to the information that it is presented with and if necessary carry out further 
checks and find out more about Mr Bs circumstances.
In addition, our adjudicator mentioned that there were several payments on the bank 
statements provided to Logbook Money from what looked like a second account held by 
Mr B. Logbook Money has told us it was its policy at the time to ask an applicant, on 
seeing this, whether they had a second bank account and it would have asked Mr B 
about this in his interview. But I cant see that it has recorded down that it did do this or 
that this affected its decision to lend to him in anyway. A note on its system instead says 
bank stats quite simple if ok with no notes about whether it asked Mr B about a second 
account. Logbook Money also says that it accepts it did not request sight of Mr Bs 
second account statements. So, I think Logbook Money didnt do all it could have done 
with the information that it had in front of it.
When I also consider the amount Mr B was asking to borrow in relation to his income, 
the length of time of the loan and the overall cost, I think Logbook Money should have 
been carrying out a complete review of his finances. In these circumstances, that means 
when it saw the payments from a second account on Mr Bs statements, I think it should 
have requested further information about this. I think it would have needed to do this to 
ensure that it carried out a complete review of Mr Bs finances, and make its lending 
decision from that, rather than just part of the picture. So, because it didnt go far enough 
on this occasion, it follows that I dont think the checks it conducted were proportionate 
or fair. 
I now need to go on and consider what Logbook Money would have seen if it had carried 
out proportionate checks. Mr B has provided our service with bank statements from his 
second account, and I have been able to review these to give me an idea as to what 
Logbook Money would have potentially seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
I can see that in the month prior to asking for a loan with Logbook Money, Mr B spent 
£1330 on gambling. This amount is more than the amount of income he received during 
the same month. Our adjudicator found that this was a significant sign that Mr B was 
having problems managing his money and so Logbook Money being on receipt of this 
information most likely would not have granted this loan.
Mr B received a large sum of money as a windfall in the month before he took out a loan 
with Logbook Money which our adjudicator explained was a one-off amount that he 
spent fairly quickly. Mr B confirmed that this amount was from a compensation pay out 
and also told this service that he had issues with gambling and compulsive spending. 
Logbook Money says most of the windfall was spent on a vehicle and then it goes on to 
say the gambling and shopping expenditure described by our adjudicator is reasonable 
and in line with someone in receipt of a one-off windfall and not typical of Mr Bs ongoing spending patterns. But when I have reviewed the bank statements from Mr Bs second 
account, I can see that only around a third of the windfall amount was put towards a 
vehicle. The remaining amount was spent on gambling and shopping through many 
smaller transactions where Mr B went back and spent money on gambling on many 
occasions in succession. Mr B for example spent 25 small payments on gambling over 3 
days. This doesnt demonstrate to me a reaction to a windfall but is more in line with how 
Mr B described his spending.  
Altogether, had Logbook Money uncovered this information from carrying out further 
checks, as a responsible lender, I dont think it would have lent to Mr B. I think it would 
have seen that with the level of gambling transactions shown (many entries in rapid 
succession), there were clear signs that Mr B was having problems managing his 
finances and that there was a risk to him of not managing to meet his repayments for this 
loan as they fell due.   
I conclude that Logbook Money should not have given Mr B the logbook loan.
Finally, Logbook Money has recently been in contact to say Mr B has abandoned his car 
and it now has possession of it. It asked our service if it could sell the car at an auction. I 
asked Logbook Money to wait until it received this decision before it took any further 
action. 
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint and so Logbook Money needs to now put things right. 
This will involve it removing all interest and charges that it has added to his account, 
leaving only the capital amount that Mr B has had use off. I can see that Mr B has made 
payments in total of £1589.28, according to a statement of his account provided by the 
Logbook Money on 17 February 2021. The capital that he borrowed was £1200. 
Therefore, there will be an amount that will exceed the capital, which should be treated 
as an overpayment and refunded to him.
Logbook Money has said that it recovered Mr Bs vehicle from the side of the road and that it 
has had to incur charges for it to be held in storage. In light of what I have concluded, I think 
the fair and reasonable thing to do now by Logbook Money, seen as Mr B will not owe 
anything further, would be for it to contact Mr B and make arrangements for him to collect his 
vehicle at no additional cost to him. 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Mr B responded and accepted the decision. He has no further comments to make.
Logbook Money says it is disappointed with the findings and outcome of the provisional 
decision. It has provided a detailed response and although I have not included every point 
that it has made below, I have considered everything it has said carefully. I will summarise 
what I believe the most relevant points that it has made:
It says the reasonableness of Mr Bs windfall spending is a very subjective matter. 
It says £1300 gambling in one short period against an £11,000 windfall does not 
make it compulsive gambling. It adds that there was no pattern of gambling before 
the windfall or any indication of continued gambling after the loan was issued.
It says when Mr B started to miss payments on his loan, it always made efforts to 
accommodate revised repayment plans. According to Logbook Money at no time 
did Mr B co-operate and was always unwilling to allow it to make a responsible 
assessment. It goes on to say that every effort was made by it to avoid escalation to an Ombudsman. It offered without prejudice to write off some of the debt and 
set up an affordable repayment plan. It strongly suspects Mr B is in a position to 
make repayments and requests before I make a final decision that Mr B is first 
required to submit his most recent bank statements if not to it then at the very least 
to the Ombudsman.
It says it did not repossess the vehicle. It adds that any proceedings were always 
on hold in response to the ongoing complaint. It says it was made aware by Kent 
Policy that Mr B had abandoned its asset. This then incurred fees. It says had it 
not acted more fees would have been incurred. It feels strongly that it should not 
be held responsible for these costs which had nothing to do with any actions of the 
firm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional information that Logbook Money has given to us hasnt persuaded me that 
I should change my provisional decision. But I think it right that I should provide some 
further explanation about the matters it has raised.
Logbook Money has said Mr Bs windfall spending is a very subjective matter. It doesnt 
believe what Mr B spent on gambling to have shown a pattern of compulsive gambling. I 
have considered Logbook Moneys opinion and again looked into this. In doing so, I have 
arrived at the same conclusion, that Mr Bs spending during this period would have shown 
it that he was having problems managing his finances and it would have shown that there 
was a risk there of him not being able to meet his repayments for the loan in a sustainable 
way. The many entries in rapid succession, showed me that more likely than not he was 
compulsive gambling in this instance and so I think, in seeing this, it wouldnt have agreed 
to lend. 
Logbook Money says it made every effort to accommodate revised repayment plans and 
avoid escalation to our service. I acknowledge the points it has made here regarding the 
forbearance it says it showed when trying to agree repayment of this loan. That said, Mr 
Bs complaint has been about whether Logbook Money irresponsibly lent to him or not 
rather than whether Logbook Money treated him fairly. So that is what the findings of my 
decision have been based on. I also dont think it is necessary to see Mr Bs bank 
statements and doing so would not make any difference to my findings or the outcome. 
Finally, Logbook Money says it was made aware that Mr B had abandoned its asset, and 
this incurred fees. It says if it had not acted more fees would have been incurred. It says it 
shouldnt be held responsible for these costs that it had nothing to do with. 
As I have upheld Mr Bs complaint, I need to think about Logbook Money would need to 
do to put Mr B in a position he would have been in if it hadnt agreed to lend to him. He 
would still need to pay back the money that he had use of, but I would need consider 
amongst other things that interest and charges be taken off. This would include any 
charges incurred by any legal action, repossession or in this case, fees relating to Kent 
Police storing or recovering the vehicle. I have considered all of the points Logbook Money has made in its submission, and I do 
thank it for engaging with and responding to the findings of my provisional decision. I also 
acknowledge its disappointment with the outcome. But my findings and decision hasnt 
changed. So, it now needs to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
  I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for 
Logbook Money to put things right by:
Refunding all of the interest and charges that Mr B paid on the loan;
Writing off the unpaid interest and charges, including any fees incurred by 
having the vehicle in storage, applying the refund to reduce the balance 
outstanding. It should consider all payments made by Mr B to be payments 
made against the capital balance.
If this results in Mr B having payments above the capital balance, which I think 
it will do, these need to be refunded to him, adding interest at 8% per year 
simple on the overpayment from the date they were paid by Mr B to the date of 
settlement;
removing any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file because of the 
loan;
Cancelling the bill of sale and arranging return of Mr Bs vehicle to him
HM Revenue & Customs requires Logbook Money to take off tax from this interest. 
Logbook Money must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Logbook Money Limited to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman