DRN-3197508
The complaint
Miss N complained that TM Advances Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided a loan 
that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss N took out a loan with TM Advances as follows:
Date taken Amount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentAmount 
repayableLoan status
30/07/2020 £1,500 30 £159 £4,770 outstanding
Miss N said the loan purpose was to pay off small balances and she needed the loan 
because shed had to pay some other expenses and owed money to a friend so she had 
been left short of money. 
When Miss N complained to TM Advances it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought 
her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that TM Advances shouldnt 
have provided the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld 
and she set out directions indicating what TM Advances should do to put things right. 
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said its affordability 
assessment probably over-stated Miss Ns actual expenditure as it allowed for her spending 
more than she had said and her living arrangements suggested her outgoings were likely 
more limited. It also worked on a lower pay figure than she had actually received that month. 
TM Advances pointed to the fact that Miss N had never missed a payment as further proof 
that the loan was affordable. It also mentioned that its loan was for debt consolidation  in 
other words, Miss N had said she would use the loan to repay two of her payday loans, so 
this loan wasnt adding to her overall indebtedness.  
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having looked afresh at everything, Ive independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
TM Advances asked Miss N about her income and expenses and did its own credit check to 
understand Miss Ns credit history. TM Advances verified that Miss Ns typical monthly pay 
was around £2,162. TM Advances boosted the monthly expenditure figure that Miss N had 
declared and calculated that she could need to spend approximately £1,100 in total each 
month on living costs, on top of paying £355 towards her board and £208 per month on the 
credit commitments she would still be paying after taking out its loan and paying off the debt 
she had mentioned.
Based on this, TM Advances said Miss N shouldve been comfortably able to afford the 
monthly repayment on this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Miss N had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think TM Advances shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on 
this information. Thats because what Miss N had declared was significantly at odds with 
what TM Advances saw on its credit checks showing Miss Ns credit history. 
Whilst having other borrowing wouldnt be unusual for a borrower applying for this type of 
expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think 
TM Advances thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered showed 
about Miss Ns overall financial situation and the likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in 
a sustainable manner. 
I say this because the lender saw that Miss N had four credit cards and they had all been 
persistently at or over limit throughout the 12 months reported on the credit report. It was 
also apparent that shed been making mostly minimum monthly repayments only to her 
cards throughout that period. Repayments at that level are insufficient to make any 
meaningful inroads into the balance owing and effectively extend the debt and can add 
significantly to the long term cost of that credit. 
As well as this, TM Advances was aware that Miss N had some payday loans and two mail 
order accounts both approaching their limits. I think this was worrying information, especially 
bearing in mind that Miss N had a well-paid job and she was living in another household and 
paying only a relatively small contribution towards household costs. 
Looked at overall, I think there were clear signs that Miss N was already under financial 
stress  borne out by the fact that she was seeking a loan in order to repay other debt, which 
can be an expensive option, so it isnt something Id expect someone on top of their finances 
would be likely to want to do.  
Ive taken carefully into account everything TM Advances has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for TM Advances to make a fair decision to lend.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Miss N wasnt 
managing her money well and she was already struggling financially. To my mind, it 
shouldve been apparent that Miss N probably didnt have the amount of disposable income 
that TM Advances calculated - or indeed any spare cash, given her apparent reliance on 
using expensive credit and her evident inability to manage this effectively without 
needing to take out further borrowing. All the signs were that her finances were, in reality, 
under significant stress and her debt was already unmanageable. 
I dont think TM Advances was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that 
Miss N would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
I think TM Advances saw enough on the information it had in front of it to have realised it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. But even if Im wrong about this, I think its fair to say that 
TM Advances didnt have enough information to support a decision to lend as things stood. 
And, if it had probed more deeply into Miss Ns financial situation, I think it wouldve found 
out the same information that I've seen on bank statements she has provided to me from 
around this time. 
These show that in the 3 months or so running up to her applying for this loan she had taken 
out at least 5 other high cost loans (around £1,650 in total) plus she had arranged for other 
credit to be paid into her current account - despite this, she was still going into unauthorised 
overdraft and having direct debit payments returned. 
I think this bears out the worrying signs that were apparent from the checks TM Advances 
carried out and confirms that Miss N simply wasnt in a position to take on more lending. 
I've taken into account that TM Advances understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But the lender didnt have control over how Miss N used the loan as it paid the 
loan balance to her. 
Also, I think the scale of her debt overall compared to the smaller value of the loan, and the 
extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive credit, would suggest that she would 
remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I dont think its likely that the loan monthly 
repayments typically meant that Miss N would make any monthly saving on the amount she 
already needed to pay towards her credit commitments even if she had used this loan to 
repay her payday loans  more likely, she would be spending more month to month and 
repaying this expensive loan at greater cost over a longer period of time. 
All in all, I dont think TM Advances had sufficient reason to think using its loan for debt 
consolidation wouldve improved Miss Ns overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant 
and sustainable improvement in her financial situation, given her outstanding indebtedness 
overall and reliance on using credit cards.
So its hard to understand how, even with debt consolidation, this loan wasnt going to be 
detrimental to Miss N overall.In coming to my decision I've thought carefully about everything TM Advances has said, 
including its comments made in response to our adjudicators view, but it makes no 
difference to the outcome. I think that it was fair and reasonable for TM Advances to have 
increased Miss Ns declared living costs to try to ensure she hadnt underestimated these. 
I dont think its reasonable to say now that she probably had more disposable income than 
this would suggest because that isnt borne out by what I've seen on her bank statements.
Thinking about all the information TM Advances had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think TM Advances 
was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Miss N, and 
thats borne out by other evidence Ive seen showing that she wasnt in a position to afford 
the loan. So it shouldnt have provided it and TM Advances needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss N to repay the capital amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending - but she shouldnt repay more than this. 
TM Advances should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss N received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss N made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss N having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TM Advances should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss N bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she requires further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Miss Ns credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So TM 
Advances should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ns credit file 
regarding this loan 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM 
Advances should give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Miss N.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman