DRN-3833590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained about what happened when they contacted Nationwide Building 
Society to book an appointment to remortgage. By the time they could get an appointment 
for a video call with an advisor, mortgage rates had risen.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G said they had recently remortgaged with Nationwide, but were very unhappy 
about how they had been treated. They said they rang to book an appointment on 3 
February. They were told then that for an advised mortgage appointment, they would need a 
video interview. For that, they would need to be together for about an hour and a half and 
would need to have stable Wi-Fi and a screen.
Mr and Mrs G said theyd previously done mortgage appointments over the phone, and only
took an appointment on 11 February to make sure that they would have stable Wi-Fi, be
together, and have a screen for the appointment. They had hoped to move the mortgage
appointment up, after consulting their diaries that evening.
Mr and Mrs G said they had a pre-call for the mortgage appointment the next day, on 4
February. They asked to just go ahead with the mortgage discussion then, but were told they
couldnt. They also asked for an appointment earlier than 11 February, but were told that
wasnt possible either.
When Mr and Mrs G had their appointment on 11 February, they were told the mortgage
interest rates had actually changed that day. Nationwide wouldnt honour the rates that were
available when they asked for an appointment.
Mr and Mrs G also complained that Nationwide had repeatedly suggested they could make
their own mortgage application online. They said it was worrying that Nationwide was
continually suggesting they should forego advice.
Mr and Mrs G said theyd been penalised because Nationwide did not have the staff
resources to deal with its existing customers. They said they were paying around £265 per
year more than they would otherwise have paid. They wanted Nationwide to honour the
original rate that theyd discussed the week before.
Nationwide has written to Mr and Mrs G a number of times about their complaint, but has
consistently said that it wont offer them a different interest rate. It said it had listened to the
call that Mrs G had on 3 February, and she was offered a number of different appointments
between Tuesday and Friday of the following week. She chose an appointment on Friday 11
February. Nationwide said it could only offer the interest rates which were available on the
day, and on the day of Mr and Mrs Gs appointment, the rates had gone up. It wouldnt be
fair to other mortgage holders in the same situation, if Nationwide was to offer Mr and Mrs G
a better deal now.
Nationwide said when the mortgage consultant rang Mr and Mrs G on 4 February for a pre-
call, the agent didnt have enough time set aside to allow a full application to go ahead.
Nationwide said that its agents are responsible for making sure they give the right advice,
and it didnt think its mortgage consultant shouldve tried to rush through providing advice to
them on this call. And by then, there were no appointments available before 11 February.
Mrs G said she had waited 40 minutes for her first call to be answered. Nationwide said wait
times are sometimes longer than it would like. It has also said that its decision to offer video
calls for mortgage appointments was an internal process change that it wouldnt
communicate to its customers. It will take forward Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about having
miscalculated the interest on their mortgage separately.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought the agent Mrs G
spoke to on 3 February was very clear in her explanation of how the different processes for
remortgaging would work. The agent offered Mrs G a choice of appointments for mortgage
advice, and Mrs G opted for 11 February. Our investigator said on both calls, the agents
explained rates could change at any time and Nationwide could only offer the rate available
on the day of application. It was unfortunate that rates had changed on the day Mr and Mrs
G applied, but Nationwides staff couldnt have foreseen that.
Our investigator thought that Nationwide had set out a fair response to Mr and Mrs Gs
concerns. She didnt think Nationwide had made a mistake, and she said she wouldnt ask it
to do any more.
Mrs G replied, to say she and her husband still didnt think theyd been treated fairly. They
said if theyd known they wouldnt be able to take advice over the phone and had to do a
video call, they would have applied earlier. They said they hadnt suggested Nationwide had
given incorrect or conflicting information, but they had wanted mortgage advice.
Mrs G said she took the appointment on 11 February with the hope of then being able to
change to an earlier one. They asked for an earlier appointment the very next day, but even
though their appointment was still more than a week away, Nationwide had no free
appointments on any earlier date. Mr and Mrs G said this was a failure of Nationwide, due to
its staff supply, not their fault. But they were being penalised for it. They kept the
appointment on the 11th because there was no other choice. If they had been able to get an
earlier appointment, they would not have incurred the rate hike.
They also said that they could have got a lower rate by going online, and passing up advice,
but they said it wasnt morally correct that those who choose to take mortgage advice should
have to take a hit on Nationwide rates increasing because they cant get a timely
appointment with their mortgage company.
Mr and Mrs G wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed
to me. I could see that at this time they still hadnt been able to listen to the recording of the
second call they had requested from Nationwide. Our service has expedited this for them,
and I understand they have now been able to listen to both calls, from 3 and 4 February.
Mr and Mrs G commented further, to say that they were surprised to hear on the first call that
they would have to do a video appointment for their mortgage renewal. They had been
hoping to do the appointment over the phone. They said that on the first call, Mrs G was
struggling to book an appointment for when she and Mr G were both at home in order to do
this. Mrs G said that she was never offered a telephone appointment by Nationwide, even
though its website says this is an option. They repeated that they would have contacted
Nationwide earlier to book an appointment if theyd realised they had to have a video call.
Mrs G said that on the call on 4 February, Mr G was heard to ask if they could do the
application over the phone now, and later she asked if the rates were likely to go up. So theysaid it was clear they had concerns about the rates, but had no choice but to wait for a
Nationwide member of staff to conduct a video interview.
Mrs G said that a call recording Nationwide had sent was noted as redacted, and she
wanted to know why. She also wanted to know why they werent offered a telephone
appointment on the initial call.
Our investigator clarified that Nationwide would have redacted internal communications
between the agent and her colleague, whilst Mrs G was on hold. And she then passed the
case back to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened carefully to the call that Mrs G had with Nationwide on Thursday 3 
February. This was a long call, on which a number of aspects of Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage were discussed. Mrs G did, as she said, almost decide to pursue an online 
mortgage application, but then decided she would prefer to take advice. When she was 
asked about her preference for an appointment, she said that a Thursday or Friday 
would be better for them, otherwise it would be difficult to find time in the daytime. She 
seemed to be hoping for an appointment that week, but those had already gone. Mrs G 
was offered a number of different possible appointments between Tuesday and Friday 
of the following week, and she chose Friday 11 February.
Nationwide said that it would conduct this appointment through a video interview. Mrs G 
has now asked why she wasnt offered a phone interview instead. But I cant hear on 
this call that Ms G had explained to Nationwide that a video call was a particular 
difficulty for her or Mr G, or that they would be able to accept an earlier appointment if 
the appointment was conducted by phone. I think thats likely to be why Nationwide 
didnt offer Mrs G a phone appointment, because it simply wasnt aware that the video 
appointment was a difficulty for them. I do think its reasonable for Nationwide to prefer 
to hold video appointments to provide mortgage advice. But most importantly, I dont 
think it has to proactively offer phone appointments instead, in circumstances where I 
dont think it could have been aware that the video call was causing a delay.
Mrs G then spoke to Nationwide again on 4 February. She did ask on this call if she 
could have an earlier appointment. But by then, the appointments which had previously 
been available in the days before her booked appointment, on 11 February, had all been 
taken.
I understand that Mr and Mrs G feel its unfair that they should have missed out on a 
better mortgage deal which had been available the week before, just because 
Nationwides advisors were busy. They dont think they should be penalised for 
Nationwide not having enough staff to meet the needs of its customers.
I think its important to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs G were calling on the same day that 
the Bank of England had decided to raise interest rates. I think its reasonable to 
assume that mortgage appointments would be particularly in demand around this time, 
as people would want to secure their applications before this change filtered through to 
Nationwides own rates. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for NatWest to have 
offered appointments, on Thursday 3 February, for the following Tuesday or later. And I 
dont think its unreasonable or unfair for Nationwide then not to be able to change the 
appointment to an earlier date, when Mr and Mrs G asked for this on Friday 4 February.When Mr and Mrs G had their mortgage appointment, they found out rates had 
increased that very day. I understand they would be upset and frustrated to have missed 
out on a better mortgage rate by a single day. But I can hear that Nationwide had 
previously explained on both calls that rates could change at any time. It expressly told 
them any rates they could see today might not be there tomorrow.
Mr and Mrs G felt Nationwide was trying to persuade them to apply for their mortgage 
online, and not take its advice. Against the background of a very recent change in the 
Bank of England base rate, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to tell Mrs G 
she could secure the rates she could see today by foregoing mortgage advice, and 
applying online.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Gs complaint carefully, and whilst I do understand both 
their frustration and disappointment, I dont think Nationwide has been unfair or 
unreasonable in how it has dealt with their mortgage application. I know Mr and Mrs G 
will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. Nationwide said it had nothing to add. Mrs G sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G said shed actually asked for her mortgage interview to be conducted by telephone, 
rather than by video call, on the day before the call I had listened to. She said this happened 
on 2 February, and she showed us what she said was evidence of a call the day before. Mrs 
G said Nationwide should have a recording of this call. Mrs G also said Nationwide was still 
advertising phone appointments for remortgage applications on its website, although it had 
told her these were no longer possible.
Our service has asked Nationwide whether it has a recording of any call at this time. It tells 
us it has searched carefully, and hasnt been able to find any such recording.
We have told Mrs G this, and in reply she said she was very concerned that Nationwide 
wouldnt have a recording of her call. She said shed assumed that Nationwide had already 
listened to this call, and it was only when I mentioned that she hadnt actually asked 
Nationwide for a telephone appointment, that she realised that the call of 2 February must 
not have been considered.
In the absence of a call recording which could provide direct evidence of what was 
discussed on a call on 2 February, I now have to decide, on balance, whats most likely to 
have happened. And there are some points I think are relevant here.
Mrs Gs recent evidence suggests the call on 2 February 2022 was for less than ten minutes. 
And Mrs G said she was on hold for 40 minutes the following day, before she managed to 
speak to the relevant department. So if Mrs G did call on 2 February, then I dont think I can 
say its most likely that this call connected. Unfortunately, it would seem to be equally 
possible that Mrs G was just on hold with Nationwide then, waiting to speak to someone.
Ive also reviewed what Mr and Mrs G said when they complained to Nationwide, and then 
when their complaint came to us. I can see that when they complained to Nationwide, they 
referred to two calls, one on 3 February when the mortgage appointment was booked, and one on 4 February when they had a pre-call, so Nationwide could obtain information for their 
mortgage advisor to consider before providing advice in the following week. 
Mr and Mrs G have also referred to two calls, when they were previously talking to our 
service. I cant see that Mrs G has referred to a third call, on 2 February, until after I issued 
my provisional decision.
Nationwide had previously sent our service a detailed list of contacts it had with Mrs G, 
which goes back further than 2 February. I cannot see the contact that Mrs G says she had 
with Nationwide on 2 February, on that list. 
And finally, Ive listened again to the call Mrs G had with Nationwide on 3 February. There 
doesnt seem to me to be anything on this call to reflect that Mrs G had discussed her 
remortgage with Nationwide briefly the day before. This call does appear to me to be more 
consistent with Mrs Gs first discussion of her remortgage, rather than a follow up to a call 
the previous day where Mrs G had already requested a phone call for her advised 
appointment, and been told she must have a video appointment instead. 
Considering all of the above, Im not able to conclude that its more likely that not that Mrs G 
had a call with Nationwide on 2 February, in which she asked for an advised mortgage 
appointment by phone and was told this was only possible by video call. I havent been able 
to decide that its more likely than not that Mrs G did explain to Nationwide that a video call 
would take longer for her to arrange, so she and Mr G would prefer a phone appointment.
Im sorry to have to tell Mr and Mrs G that, for the reasons set out above, I havent changed 
my mind on the appropriate outcome in this case. I still dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman