DRN-2986074
The complaint
Ms P complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) rejecting part of her claim 
for damage to her property from an escape of water under her home insurance policy. 
References to RSA includes their agents used to assess claims.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms P contacted RSA to tell them about a collapsed kitchen ceiling from 
an escape of water, with a substantial amount of water on the floor and damage to other 
parts of her property, including a loss of power. Ms P didnt have home emergency cover so 
tried to secure a plumber to stop the leak, but couldnt do so quickly. She contacted RSA 
again, who arranged for a plumber to go out to Ms Ps property.
Following the visit RSA agreed that Ms Ps property wasnt habitable due to the extent of the 
damage and arranged for her to move into alternative accommodation.
RSA appointed an assessor who visited Ms Ps property and confirmed that the header tank 
needed to be replaced, with the damaged floor under the tank needing to be replaced first. 
Ms P agreed to repair the floor but RSA says this didnt take place. RSA subsequently 
offered Ms P a cash settlement to cover the damage to the areas they concluded had been 
affected by the escape of water and so covered by the policy. But based on reports from the 
assessor they declined to cover the damage to other areas where either the escape of water 
came from a separate source, or where they considered the damage had occurred gradually 
over time (so wouldnt be covered). This included the damaged floor under the tank.
Ms P complained to RSA about their decision, but they didnt uphold her complaint. RSA 
noted that they asked Ms P to arrange repairs to the leaks, which they said werent covered 
under the policy but that they had agreed to reinstate the electrics (and consequent loss of 
freezer foods), drying of the living room as well as water damage to the contents of the living 
room. They also said that Ms P would need to make a separate claim for damage to the 
kitchen ceiling and bathroom floorboards as that was a separate leak from a toilet. With 
respect to the kitchen floorboards, RSA said they were in a poor state of repair prior to the 
escape of water and so werent covered under the policy.
 
Unhappy with RSAs rejection of her complaint, Ms P complained to this service. Her main 
issues were that RSA shouldnt have declined part of her claim and should have replaced 
the header tank and hot water cylinder under her policy. Ms P also complained that the 
damage led to significant physical and emotional harm to her family. Ms P asked that RSA 
should treat all the damage as one claim and settle it appropriately as the damage was the 
direct result of an escape of water from the header tank and hot water cylinder, which also 
caused the leak from the toilet.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that RSA hadnt done anything 
wrong. He thought RSA acted fairly in offering a cash settlement for the areas affected by 
the escape of water. He also thought RSA acted reasonably in not including other areas 
where the damage had occurred gradually over time and not covered by the policy. He also 
thought RSA had given Ms P a reasonable amount of time to arrange for repairs to the 
header tank and the floor underneath, as well as providing alternative accommodation.
Ms P disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She thought RSAs cash settlement offer didnt cover all the damage from the 
escape of water and didnt agree that some damage had occurred gradually. She also didnt 
think RSA had acted fairly when they stopped providing alternative accommodation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Ms P. 
Firstly, I want to reassure Ms P that I appreciate the difficult position that the incident has 
created for her and her family and I know the situation will have been very stressful. I want to 
reassure Ms P that I have considered what she has told us about her familys circumstances 
and how they were impacted by the incident.
The main part of Ms Ps complaint is that RSA rejected parts of her claim, either because the 
damage wasnt considered to have been the result of escape of water from the header tank 
or because the damage had occurred gradually.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence available, including what Ms P has told us, reports from 
RSAs assessor as well as photographs of the property and affected areas. RSA offered a 
cash settlement to cover the cost of damage that they concluded had occurred from the 
header tank, including replacement of the floor underneath it (£2,308) and drying of living 
room ceiling and walls (£500). They also offered to cover the cost of freezer contents 
damaged due to the loss of power (£100) and living room contents (£500) if Ms P could 
provide a detailed list of items affected. I think this was a reasonable offer based on their 
assessors report that set out the damage caused by the escape of water from the header 
tank. The policy terms and conditions also allow for RSA to offer a cash settlement in 
respect of a claim, so it was reasonable for them to do this.
Ive also noted that although Ms P didnt have home emergency cover, RSA did obtain a 
plumber to visit the property (and stop one of the leaks, from the toilet). While this was to 
mitigate further damage and loss, I think it was reasonable on the part of RSA. 
RSA considered that there was a separate escape of water (leak) from the bathroom toilet 
that caused damage to (principally) the bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling. As such it should 
be the subject of a separate claim. Ms P contends that it wasnt a separate leak and was told 
this by plumbers attending the property. While Ive not seen any direct evidence that 
corroborates this, I have considered what Ms P has said to us about what she was told. So 
RSA should have considered it as one claim. Ive considered both views carefully, but on 
balance Im persuaded that it was reasonable for RSA to conclude there were two separate 
escapes of water and should be considered as two claims. Ive noted that RSA have said 
that they would consider a second claim from Ms P for the leak from the toilet, and I think 
thats fair.
RSA also considered that the damage to the kitchen floor wasnt the result of either escape 
of water, but that it was rotten and therefore the result of longstanding deterioration. 
Considering the assessors report as well as the photographs, I agree that the extent of the 
damage wouldnt have arisen in the comparatively short time between the incident and the 
assessors visit. More generally, the photographs of the property clearly indicate a poor state of repair, which I think supports RSAs conclusions. Ms Ps policy also excludes cover for 
damage that occurs gradually or due to a lack of maintenance. And I dont think RSA has 
unreasonably relied on that exclusion when considering this aspect of Ms Ps claim. Theres 
also a requirement for properties to be kept in good order.
On Ms Ps concern that RSA didnt act fairly when they stopped providing alternative 
accommodation, Ive noted that RSA provided it for two months following the incident. While 
RSAs claim notes indicate some doubt over whether they were strictly obliged to provide 
alternative accommodation, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to do so in the 
circumstances. In particular, the fact that the bathroom and kitchen were significantly 
affected, together with the loss of power. Ive also considered the circumstances of Ms P and 
her family. I also think that two months was a reasonable period in which Ms P could have 
arranged for the necessary repairs. So I think that RSA acted reasonably in their response to 
Ms Ps circumstances.
 
While Ive concluded that RSA acted reasonably, given the circumstances faced by Ms P 
and her family, RSA should do what they can to help resolve Ms Ps situation. I agree that 
the evidence indicates a separate leak from the toilet, which under the policy could be made 
as a second claim. Should Ms P make a second claim, Id expect RSA to consider it fairly 
and promptly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman