DRN-3043810
The complaint
Miss O complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Miss O was given a single loan by ELL in November 2017. She borrowed £5,870 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 42 monthly instalments. Miss O repaid the loan earlier 
than planned, in May 2019.
ELL gathered some information from Miss O before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income, and her normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate Miss Os normal expenditure. ELL checked Miss Os credit 
file. And ELL used two months bank statements provided by Miss O to look at the 
rest of her finances.
Miss O was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of more than three years. So I think it was 
right that ELL wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Miss Os financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the 
checks ELL performed were sufficient to achieve that level of scrutiny  I think ELLs 
checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of the checks ELL performed to see 
whether it reached a fair decision to lend to Miss O.
Miss Os credit file showed that she was using a number of different lines of credit. 
She had six active credit cards with balances that were at, or in some cases slightly 
above, the agreed credit limit. She had a catalogue shopping account that was again 
slightly above the agreed credit limit. And Miss O had another long-term loan that she 
had taken out in April 2015. The credit check also showed that Miss O had recently 
taken two payday loans.
Miss Os repayment records across all her credit accounts were good  her credit file 
showed that she had very rarely missed a contractual repayment. So I think that 
might have given ELL some confidence in Miss Os ability to manage her finances. 
But the amount of credit that Miss O was using, and her more recent use of payday 
loans might have caused some concerns to ELL. I can see that those concerns were 
addressed with Miss O as part of ELLs application process.
Miss O told ELL that she wanted to use the loan to clear her outstanding credit card 
balances before closing those accounts. And she said that she would also use the 
loan to repay the two payday loans shed recently taken. She explained that those 
were the only payday loans shed ever taken, and had resulted from a temporary 
fluctuation in her income caused by changes to her tax code. I think that the 
explanations Miss O provided to ELL were plausible and that it was reasonable for 
ELL to rely on what Miss O had said.
The bank statements that Miss O provided to ELL covered both the accounts that 
were shown on ELLs credit check. They provided a picture of Miss Os finances over 
the previous two months. The bank statements supported what Miss O had said to 
ELL about not paying any housing costs  I understand that she lived with her 
parents. And they didnt show any evidence of other financial problems such as 
significant amounts of gambling transactions, heavy overdraft use, or multiple 
payments being returned unpaid. They showed that generally Miss Os spending was 
well managed within the funds she had available to her.
After using the loan from ELL to repay her credit cards and payday loans, Miss O 
would be left with just the long-term loan she opened in 2015 and her catalogue 
shopping account. I have considered that the amount she would need to repay to 
ELL each month would be greater than the minimum payments that were needed on 
the credit card accounts. But I think that misses the point that here Miss O was 
placing her finances onto a far more stable and secure footing. By saying that she 
would repay, and then close, her credit card accounts she was ensuring that she had 
a far clearer picture of what her monthly expenditure would be. And it seems to me, 
from the information that ELL gathered, that Miss O would be able to afford her 
combined monthly repayments alongside her other normal expenditure.
I dont currently think that the results of ELLs checks should have led the lender to 
conclude that it would be likely that Miss O would struggle to repay its lending in a 
sustainable manner. I appreciate that my provisional decision will be disappointing for 
Miss O, but I dont currently think that ELL did anything wrong in giving her the loan.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL hasnt provided us with anything further. The claims management 
company that is representing Miss O on this complaint has told us that Miss O obviously 
doesnt agree with my provisional findings. But it has also told us that it has nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments, I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. As I said in that 
decision, I appreciate that my findings will be disappointing for Miss O, but I dont think that 
ELL did anything wrong in giving her the loan.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman