DRN-3038728
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined aspects of 
her claim which related to advanced treatment. Miss F complains the exclusion in 
relation to advanced treatment wasnt made clear to her and if it had been, she would 
have acted differently.
What happened
Miss F has a pet insurance policy for her dog, V.
The policy is underwritten by Great Lakes.
In July 2020, Miss F took V to the vets. V was diagnosed with 
degenerative lumbosacral stenosis. A condition which affects Vs 
spine and lumbar area.
A specialist vet carried out further diagnostics in November 2020 to 
determine if V was a candidate for stem cell treatment.
In January 2021, V had their fat harvested  the first step in stem cell treatment.
Miss F put in a claim to cover the treatment.
Great Lakes said it wouldnt cover it as the policy excluded advanced 
treatments  which included stem cell treatment. It referred Miss F to the 
renewal documents and policy from December 2020.
Miss F felt it was unfair for Great Lakes to rely on this exclusion as the 
previous years policy didnt mention advanced treatments, and so she had 
no reason to believe stem cell treatment wouldnt be covered.
She felt it was unfair for Great Lakes to change the policy wording while there 
was an ongoing claim and it had previously covered treatments associated with 
Vs spinal condition.
Great Lakes said previous claims had related to Vs spinal pain, and not 
stem cell treatment.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She said the policy wording from 
December 2020 made it clear that stem cell treatment wouldnt be covered 
and so, Great Lakes had acted fairly by declining to cover the treatment costs.
Shed looked at the key changes document which was sent in March 2021 
and noted advanced treatment wasnt mentioned. But, as it appeared in 
the renewal policy wording, she was satisfied it had been brought to Miss 
Fs attention.
She added that Miss F hadnt checked with Great Lakes to see if stem cell 
treatment was covered, and so didnt think it was reasonable for her to assume 
it was covered because it hadnt been mentioned in the previous years policy.
Miss F disagreed. She said the policy didnt require her to check with the 
insurer before going ahead with treatment. Miss F said she contacted Great 
Lakes to see if they would do a pre-authorisation form but was told they didnt 
do them.
She said the treatment was recommended in the period of the 2019/2020 policy 
 but the procedure didnt go ahead until January 2021, so didnt think it was fair 
to exclude it.
And it wasnt brought to her attention that the new policy excluded stem cell 
treatment.
On 19 August 2021, I issued a provisional decision saying:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the requirements set by the Regulator, which 
include that insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not 
unreasonably reject a claim. I have considered whether Great Lakes dealt with 
the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms, and whether it unreasonably 
rejected the claim.
The starting point is the policy terms  the December 2020 policy terms state, in 
relation to advanced treatment, that:
we will not pay for stem-cell treatment, gene therapy, transplant surgery with 
necessary pre- and post-operative care, and prosthesis.
On the face of it, the policy makes it clear that stem cell treatment isnt covered, 
but from what Ive seen, I dont agree it was sufficiently brought to Miss Fs 
attention. And I say this for two reasons.
First, its a new term which hadnt appeared in her previous years policy. So, given 
its a key change - in that it excludes a type of treatment - I would have expected it 
to have been brought to her attention. I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss F 
to have read the policy document from cover to cover to find changes between her 
previous years cover and the renewal terms.
Second, Great Lakes accepts that at the time of renewal in December 2020, it 
didnt provide information about important changes to Miss Fs policy. In March 
2021, it sent a document highlighting changes. However, having looked at this, I 
see theres no mention of advanced treatment being added as an exclusion, 
which I would have expected. In any event, this document was sent after Miss F 
agreed to continue her policy. And even if this information had been provided at 
the time the policy renewed, it wouldnt have brought to Miss Fs attention that 
stem cell treatment wasnt covered. 
Miss F has explained that if shed known stem cell treatment wasnt covered, 
she wouldnt have started treatment for it. Given previous claims had been paid 
out regarding Vs spinal pain  and the stem cell treatment was recommended as a way of improving Vs symptoms I can see why Miss F reasonably thought 
stem cell treatment would have been covered. Especially as the exclusion 
hadnt been brought to her attention.
Our investigator said it was reasonable to have expected Miss F to check whether 
the treatment was covered before going ahead with it. Ive looked at the policy 
terms to see whether this was a requirement and it wasnt. So, Im not persuaded 
that Miss F was at fault for not contacting Great Lakes before the stem cell 
treatment commenced.
To summarise, because the exclusion wasnt brought to Miss Fs attention, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to decline her claim on the basis that 
advanced treatments arent covered under the policy.
For the reasons set out above, Im currently inclined to uphold Miss Fs complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay Miss F the costs it deducted from the claim 
which it considered to be advanced treatment  plus 8% simple interest per year 
from the date Miss F made the claim until the date Great Lakes makes payment.
Miss F responded to my decision saying she didnt have anything further to 
add.  Great Lakes didnt provide additional information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, my decision remans that Great Lakes 
hasnt treated Miss F fairly and so Im upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay Miss F the costs it deducted from the claim which it 
considered to be for advanced treatment  8% simple interest per year from the date 
Miss F made the claim until the date Great Lakes Insurance SE makes payment must be 
added to this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman