DRN-2157540
The complaint
Mr C, a sole trader complains on behalf of his business, Q about American Express 
Payment Services Limited withholding payments from them.
What happened
The payment terminal in Qs shop accepted some transactions from customers paying with 
American Express cards. Q say the payment terminal had been set up incorrectly. They 
hadnt wanted to accept payments via American Express. They asked American Express to 
send them the money.
American Express said it couldnt pay the transactions to Q because their merchant account 
hadnt been fully set up by Qs merchant acquirer. Both American Express and the merchant 
acquirer had tried to get the missing information from Q, without success. American Express 
was unable to make the payments to Q because it still didnt have the information it needed 
to complete the account set-up.
Q remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to us. They said they didnt want to set 
up an account with American Express. They wanted American Express to pay them the 
funds.
Our investigator looked into Qs concerns but didnt think their complaint should be upheld. 
He said American Express wasnt involved in the installation of the payment terminal. So it 
wasnt responsible for the terminal accepting payments from American Express cards. 
American Express can only release money to businesses that have set up a merchant 
account to use their services. As Q hadnt completed the application, American Express 
wasnt able to complete the necessary checks.
Q disagreed with our investigators opinion. Mr C said Q werent responsible for the 
merchant acquirer set-up. They hadnt received their money and had done nothing wrong. 
American Express was holding their money and Q were out of pocket. So, Qs complaint has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Qs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require American Express to conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence. It also needs to act in the best interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Q say the merchant acquirer set up the payment terminal incorrectly, allowing American 
Express payments to be taken. American Express says the merchant acquirer tried to set up 
a merchant account for Q but the set up wasnt completed due to missing information. 
Its unfortunate that the payment terminal accepted around £55 of payments from American 
Express cards when Q didnt want this to happen. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
comment on the actions of the merchant acquirer, who is not part of this complaint. But from 
what both Q and American Express have said, American Express doesnt seem to be 
responsible for things going wrong.
I appreciate Mr C feels Q shouldnt have to complete an American Express account 
application to receive money that belongs to them. This is inconvenient for Q who also 
doesnt appear to have done anything wrong.
 
But American Express says it has an obligation to know certain information before it can 
release the funds to Q. I think this is reasonable, and I havent been told of any reason why 
Q cant provide the details American Express has asked for.
Keeping in mind that American Express isnt responsible for the payments being sent to 
them in the first place, I dont think its acted unfairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman