DRN-2726491
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a new car supplied to her through a Hire Purchase
agreement with Black Horse Limited trading as Suzuki Finance (Black Horse).  
Background
In November 2018, Miss B financed a new car for a cash price of £16,000. The dealer
allowed Miss B to finance a shortfall from a previous finance agreement on the car she part-
exchanged. The value of this was £4,300 which means that the total finance agreement Miss
B entered into was £20,300.
Miss B contacted Black Horse in January 2020 to complain about difficulty in selecting
gears, handbrake not holding and the vehicle being underpowered. Miss B wanted to reject
the car.
The car was initially inspected for these issues in February 2019 by the dealer. The dealer
was unable to find any faults with the car. As the issues continued, Miss B raised this matter
again, with Black Horse, who organised an independent inspection in February 2020 by
DEKRA. The independent engineer concluded that the engines performance was as
expected, and there were no issues detected during the inspection. However, there was an
issue with the selection of reverse gear and the handbrake, the report concluded that the
issues were likely to be present at or shortly after the point of sale.
Black Horse did not uphold the issue regarding the vehicle underperforming, they did uphold
all other elements of the complaint and as a suitable remedy they offered to repair the car,
refund 10% of the monthly payments which amounts to £507.84 and £250 compensation for
the 200 miles that Dekra covered in the inspection and for the trouble and upset that this
matter caused. Miss B was unhappy with the offer and wanted to reject the car.
One of our investigators here did not uphold this complaint. Although the investigator felt
that the car was not of a satisfactory quality at the time of supply, she felt the offer made by
Black Horse was fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. The
investigator concluded that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Black Horse should have
the opportunity to repair the car on one occasion, before the option to reject the car is
considered.
Miss B accepted the view based on the assumption that her car would be repaired within
four weeks of accepting the view. As the four weeks elapsed Miss B brought this matter to
our attention. We followed up with Black Horse on behalf of Miss B and advised Miss B that
the dealer had been informed to contact her. As this didnt happen, Miss B was advised by
our investigator to contact them directly. The dealer offered a booking date of 9 November
2020 which Miss B found unacceptable, she has lost all confidence in them carrying out the
repairs and would like to reject the car. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss B and Black Horse a provisional decision on 26 February 2021, Ive included my 
findings from this decision below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It
says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the
goods is satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering any description
of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider might include
things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of the goods includes their general state
and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
My starting point is that Black Horse Limited trading as Suzuki Finance supplied Miss B
with a brand-new car. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the
level of quality to be higher than a second-hand, more road-worn car. And that it could be
used  free from defects  for a considerable period of time.
Based on the evidence I have from both parties, it seems likely there is a fault with the car.
I say this because the issues that Miss B has encountered with the difficulty in selecting the
gears and the handbrake have been verified by an independent report made by DEKRA.
The independent inspector found that the handbrake was slightly excessive and he was
able to replicate the owners difficulties on a number of occasions. At times, it was not
possible to select the reverse gear and crunching was experienced when lifting the clutch.
I can see that the report concludes that these issues were likely to be present shortly or at
the point of sale.
Ive already said why I think there is a fault with the car. So, Ive gone on to consider
whether the goods were of satisfactory quality when they were supplied. Ive already set
out the sort of high expectations a reasonable person would have when purchasing a new
car. I think its reasonable to expect Miss Bs car should have been free from this type of
defect at the point of supply. So, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when Black
Horse supplied it to Miss B.
If the goods supplied under the CRA are considered to be unsatisfactory quality, it would be
considered a breach of contract. Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available
to the consumer for goods that do not conform:
(3) If the goods do not conform to the contract because of a breach of any of the
terms described in sections 9,10,11,13 and 14, or if they do not conform to the
contract under section 16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them and
when they are available) are 
(a) the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22);
(b) the right to repair or replacement (section 23); and
(c) the right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24).Its possible that Miss Bs referral of the car to the dealer in February 2019 was an
opportunity to repair given I think this is in all likelihood where Black Horse would have sent
the car for inspection. But even if it wasnt Miss B has lost all confidence in Black Horse
conducting her repair work. So, Ive thought very carefully about whether repair would be
the fairest remedy in these circumstances.
Section 23 of the CRA explains that a trader must conduct a repair within a reasonable
time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. A date of 9 November 2020 
was offered to Miss B in order to repair the car, which means that Miss B would have waited 
approximately ten weeks before the repair work wouldve been carried out. I can understand 
why Miss B would have been frustrated at this, as the handling of the car was impacting her 
medical conditions.
Given that the appointed dealer could not find any faults with the car in February 2019, I
have asked myself whether they would be able to carry out the repair work successfully. I
find that any reasonable person would question this. I can understand why Miss B may also
have reservations to this effect.
Considering the above and the additional delays and inconvenience that a further repair will
cause, I think its fair for to say that repair is no longer the most suitable remedy for Miss B.
At this stage, I find that a replacement would also not be a suitable remedy for Miss B. The
amount of time it would take to source a car that is now used, with similar mileage, colour
and specification can be time consuming and not always possible.
So, I think Miss B should be allowed to exercise her final right to reject the car. This would
mean that the car is collected from her at no cost, the finance agreement ended and any
adverse data removed from her credit file. Black Horse have offered to refund 10% on all of
Miss Bs monthly rentals. Ive thought about whether this is a fair proposal. On the one
hand, Miss B is no longer using the car herself, but the car is still being used by her
daughter. When Miss B was using the car herself, she would have had impaired usage, as
the driving was impacting her medical conditions. So, I can understand why a refund of
10% on all her payments seem fair. However, Ive also considered whether this would be
fair to Black Horse. As the car will be returned, Black Horse will be left with a negative
equity which is comprised of £4300 they agreed to re-finance for Miss B. At the same time,
Miss B will be left with no car and a debt of £4300.
Given the circumstances of this complaint, the fairest resolution is to consider what Miss B
has already paid towards the debt. The £4300 that Black Horse lent Miss B is around a fifth
of the £20,300 she borrowed. So, its fair to say that fifth of the payments made by Miss B
went towards that part of the debt. This amounts to £1800, as shes repaid around £9,000
to date which means that Miss B owes £2500. Black Horse should then retain the 10% from
her monthly payments. This can then be used towards offsetting the £2500 that Miss B
would owe. This will reduce the debt that Miss B has with Black Horse. Both Black Horse
and Miss B can then discuss and agree a repayment plan for the outstanding amount.
Black Horse offered Miss B £250 compensation, this was in recognition of the distress and
inconvenience that this matter caused. This amount was also inclusive of the 200 miles the
car had travelled whilst DEKRA conducted the inspection. Because Black Horse supplied
Miss B with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, I think the offer made by Black Horse
seems fair and reasonable. As Miss B has certain medical conditions, the issues with
selecting the gears, would have caused a certain level of distress. Im satisfied that the
amount offered by Black Horse recognises this. On that basis, Im asking Black Horse to
pay the £250 compensation, if they havent already done so. I gave both parties four weeks to respond to me provisional decision with any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider.Miss B got in touch and said she was happy with 
the decision. Black Horse responded and said it would put matters right by doing what I set 
out in my provisional decision. 
 My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which are detailed 
above. As no one has provided any new comments or evidence in disagreement with my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change what I said.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Black Horse Limited trading as 
Suzuki Finance to do the following: 
end the agreement with Miss B;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss B;
reduce the part-exchange debt from £4300 to £2500,
Black Horse can then retain the 10% refund of monthly rentals as directed in my 
findings (above) towards offsetting the debt of £2500;
agree a repayment plan with Miss B for the outstanding amount;
pay £250 compensation for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the
faulty goods and mileage covered under inspection if Black Horse havent already
done so*;
remove any adverse data from her credit file thats been recorded up until now.
*If Black Horse does not pay £250 within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss B
has accepted my final decision, then it must also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this from
the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If Black Horse considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income
tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should
also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman