DRN-2885186
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold Mr U payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr U disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr U says the bank adviser gave him the impression that PPI was needed for his mortgage 
application to be successful. He wasnt made aware the PPI was optional. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. Also, the sale of the 
PPI took place about 18 years ago and I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely 
fully on everything they remember. 
Also, I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance 
policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is 
actually something worth having and it is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets 
to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less 
acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said.
And I can see that there was a separate PPI application form, and within that choices over 
the type of PPI. So this suggests at least that the PPI wasnt presented as a single package 
with the mortgage. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to say the PPI wasnt presented as a choice, and I think 
on balance it probably was offered as optional, even if Mr U doesnt now remember that. 
Even though this was discussed in a meeting, I dont have good evidence that RBS formally 
recommended the PPI  in the sense of telling Mr U it had assessed all his circumstances 
and that this particular PPI would be suitable for his needs. Instead I think it told Mr U about 
the PPI and pointed out the benefits  but it was then up to him to decided if it was suitable 
for him, and whether he thought the costs worthwhile. 
But, even if RBS had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in his circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as 
Mr U received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time 
when he would need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying 
the mortgage and other living costs (and in fact Mr U has told us he didnt have other means 
to fall back on). This all would have put Mr U in a more secure position, if hed eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out.
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr U would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Its possible RBS didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr U would have been affected by any of these, so fuller information is unlikely to 
have affected whether he took the PPI. And hed be paying for it monthly, so he could cancel 
it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
So I dont see that the PPI was mis-sold. But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr U because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr U about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr U, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr U.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr U any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman