DRN-3195416
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of Mrs H about the difficulties encountered gaining access to an
account having registered a power of attorney with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
What happened
The facts are not in dispute. In summary Mrs S, who is a named attorney and Mrs Hs
daughter, wasnt given access to her mothers account following the registration in
December 2019. Mrs Hs access was also restricted. Mrs S had to spend a good deal of
time, including going into branch on Saturdays, to sort the matter out. The problem was
eventually sorted in late April 2020. Halifax accepted that it shouldnt have taken as long as it
did for Mrs S to gain access to Mrs Hs account after registration of the power of attorney. It
offered Mrs S £150 for the upset caused to her and £10 in travel costs.
Unhappy with this Mrs S referred the complaint here on behalf of Mrs H. Our investigator
explained that this service is unable to require Halifax to pay compensation to Mrs S as
shes not eligible in her own right; rather she is a representative for Mrs H.
Mrs S appealed. She said that the time she had spent sorting this matter out had impacted
Mrs H. I issued a provisional decision on 26 November 2021. My provisional findings were 
as follows:
As our investigator explained, we cant make an award to Mrs S so Im considering the
impact that this matter had on Mrs H.
Mrs S has said, and I accept, that Mrs H has never paid a bill late in her life. As Mrs S didnt
have access to the account she wasnt able to pay her care bills. Mrs S says that this
damaged Mrs Hs reputation. But Im not persuaded that this is so. I say this because if Mrs
S explained the issue she was having with Halifax I think it more likely than not that it would
have been accepted that this was the reason payment hadnt been prompt. I understand that
eventually Mrs S did withdraw cash to pay the bills.
Likewise Mrs S says that Mrs H was denied access to her money which could have been
invested for her care. I do appreciate that inconvenience was caused, but Im not able to find
on the evidence before me that this can be translated into a concrete financial loss for which
this respondent is liable.
However Im satisfied that there was an impact on Mrs H which hasnt been considered by
Halifax. The time which Mrs S was obliged to spend sorting out this matter on three
Saturdays and in the evenings meant there was less time to spend with her mother, who is
suffering with a form of dementia. It is difficult to determine the exact impact this may have
had and I note that Mrs S was able to arrange other care. But Im persuaded that there
would have been some impact on Mrs H, who is a vulnerable person. I find compensation in
the sum of £100 is merited.
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. In summary Mrs S on behalf of Mrs H said that 
whatever is decided the money received would be added to her mothers account. She made 
the point that care is expensive and costs soon mount up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to the parties for their swift responses. 
Having considered these I see no reason change my provisional findings. I do accept that 
care is very expensive. My intention wasnt to calculate the exact financial cost of the care 
for Mrs H during the time Mrs S spent dealing with this matter. Halifax has offered 
compensation to Mrs S and I was looking to see if there was a further impact on Mrs H. I 
was persuaded that there would have been  this may have been personal, in that her 
daughter wasnt able to spend as much time with Mrs H as she usually did. For that I was 
persuaded that £100 was merited. I remain of the view that this sum is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional findings I require Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Mrs H £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman