DRN-4245156
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed his account and loaded 
a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr F held an account with Halifax. In April 2023, Halifax received two reports from differing 
sources that Mr Fs account was the beneficiary of fraudulent funds. 
Halifax decided to close Mr Fs account and load an adverse fraud marker against him on 
the Cifas database.
Mr F complained about Halifaxs decision to close his account and load the marker. He told 
Halifax that prior to the transactions entering his account, hed lost his bank card and had 
failed, unintentionally, to report this to Halifax.
Halifax didnt agree it had made an error. It found that it had closed Mr Fs account fairly and 
was satisfied it met the burden of proof set out by Cifas to load the marker.
Mr F, unhappy with this response, referred his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. An Adjudicator considered the evidence and testimony provided by both parties but 
didnt find Halifax had made an error. In summary, they agreed that the account was closed 
fairly and that the Cifas marker had met the relevant burden of proof.
Mr F disagreed with the Adjudicators assessment and findings. He maintained that hed lost 
his card and felt that a third-party could have obtained the relevant details to access his 
account.
As Mr F disagreed with the Adjudicators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Halifax has the right to terminate a relationship with a customer as long as it doesnt breach 
law or regulations, its decision to do so is in line with the accounts terms and conditions, and 
is done so in a fair and reasonable way.
Halifax had received two unlinked reports from two reliable sources that Mr Fs account was 
being used to receive fraudulent funds. This, on its own, is enough to close an account. A 
customer that has received illegitimate funds into their account, wittingly or not, presents a 
significant risk to the bank in potentially allowing it to continue operating fraudulently.
Ive also referred to the terms and conditions of the account, and the relevant section (M) on 
closure sets out:
We can end this agreement (or account, benefit or benefits package or service) without 
telling you in advance if we reasonably think that:
there is or may be illegal or fraudulent activity connected to the account;
Having looked at Halifaxs system notes, I can see that it provided Mr F with 60 days notice 
of closure despite it being within its right to close it with immediate effect. This gave Mr F 
advanced notice to allow him to find alternative banking facilities with minimal disruption. 
Therefore, I dont find Halifax acted unreasonably here when closing Mr Fs account.
Cifas loading
One of the relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards applicable to 
this complaint are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
These standards mean that Halifax must have more than mere suspicion when loading a 
marker against a persons name. It must have strong evidence to support that a financial 
crime has been committed or attempted and that the person to whom they are loading the 
marker against is more than likely to have had witting involvement.
Im satisfied that the first standard has been met here. While Im unable to share the 
specifics of any fraud report our service has seen, it is clear that two independent reports 
were received by Halifax demonstrating that multiple payments had been made to Mr Fs 
account which were paid as a result of fraud. Therefore, Im satisfied that Halifax had 
reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial crime had been committed.
Turning to the second standard, Mr F has said throughout that he was unaware of the funds 
that entered his account and wasnt responsible for their withdrawal. Hes surmised that a 
third-party likely stole his bank card and used it without his knowledge or consent. But 
having considered the evidence carefully, I dont find this to be a likely scenario.
Mr F has been certain in testimony that no one knew the PIN to his bank card. Yet, a likely 
opportunistic thief managed to successfully use the genuine PIN on his card without any 
failed attempts. There is no persuasive evidence to explain how this third-party would have 
obtained Mr Fs PIN, and the probability of a person guessing a four-digit PIN on a first 
attempt is extremely low.
Even if I were to accept the possibility of Mr F being observed entering his PIN, or that the 
thief managed to guess his PIN, there are other factors in this complaint that persuade me 
Mr F was at the very least aware of the transactions that had been made.
All of the fraudulent transactions that entered Mr Fs account occurred on 3 April 2023. 
Halifax has provided online banking logs for this day which clearly show multiple logins
over 20between 11:58 and 20:40. While a third-party may have had access to Mr Fs bank card, there is no logical explanation as to how they would have accessed Mr Fs online 
banking considering the amount of security protocols they would have to bypass. 
As its likely these logins can be attributed to Mr F, its likely he would have seen the 
fraudulent transactions entering the account and being withdrawn via ATMs and card 
payments. Yet he didnt report either his card being lost or the transactions he says he didnt 
carry out until Halifax decided to close his account several weeks after Mr F says the loss 
occurred.
Finally, Halifax has pointed out that prior to the fraudulent transactions entering Mr Fs 
account, he cleared it to a zero balance. Mr F has told our service that hed done this due to 
being accused by Halifax in 2020 of committing fraud, and he subsequently lost trust in the 
bank. But if this were the case, I fail to understand why Mr F had waited until circa three 
years later to remove his money from the account. And I find it unlikely to be coincidental 
that he happened to decide to do this prior to the receipt of funds that derived from fraud.
All of the above factors Ive considered would indicate a high probability that Mr F was aware 
of the fraudulent funds entering his account and being spent.
Id like to assure Mr F that I am by no means accusing him of being involved in the 
fraudulent activity associated with his account. My assessment is based upon whether 
Halifax had sufficient information and evidence to support the loading it placed on the Cifas 
database, taking into consideration the relevant burdens of proof. And for all the reasons Ive 
given above, I find that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman