DRN-3867120
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse him with the money he lost to a
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2021 Mr S says he was looking to invest in cryptocurrency and found a firm online that Ill
refer to as N. Between August and November 2021 Mr S sent payments from his Santander
account to an exchange Ill refer to as C. Cryptocurrency was purchased which Mr S
believed was then used to fund his investment with N. Mr S says that he had an account
manager from N and access to a platform where he could see his account value rising.
In late October 2021 Mr S account manager told him there was a problem and that his
account was frozen. He was required to pay a further amount of around £26,000 to release
his funds. Around this time Mr S was also referred to a Mr B who he was told also had
significant funds frozen with N and who would assist him to recover the same.
At Mr Bs direction Mr S started to use a different cryptocurrency exchange K and he also
opened an account with another bank B. This was because Mr B told Mr S that B were
more co-operative with payments being made to cryptocurrency.
Mr S made payments from his Santander account to C of around £165,000. There was also
one payment on 23 November 2021 for £100 which went to K. Mr S also received credits
back into his account from C of around £37,000. And whilst not the subject matter of this
complaint, Mr S went on to send significant funds of over £630,000 from his account with B
towards the scam. This included the proceeds of Mr S selling his home. The details of the
relevant payments from and credits to Mr S Santander account are below:
Date Amount Beneficiary Notes
30 August 2021 £50 C Online Banking
31 August 2021 £290.13 credit N/A From C
31 August 2021 £10,000 C Online Banking
2 September 2021 £1,859.61 credit N/A From C
3 September 2021 £786.55 credit N/A From C
6 September 2021 £25,000 C Online Banking
8 September 2021 £24,999.91 credit N/A From C
9 September 2021 £25,000 C Phone Banking
13 September 2021 £7,000 C Mobile Banking
14 September 2021 £3,000 C In Branch
6 October 2021 £5,000 C Mobile Banking
7 October 2021 £1,915.76 credit N/A From C
12 October 2021 £25,000 C Mobile Banking
18 October 2021 £50 credit N/A Complaint 
Compensation from 
Santander
21 October 2021 £24,000 C Mobile Banking
22 October 2021 £20,500 C Mobile Banking
26 October 2021 £6,050 C Mobile Banking
26 October 2021 £7,300 C Mobile Banking
27 October 2021 £7,092.63 credit N/A From C
18 November 2021 £7,500 C Mobile Banking
23 November 2021 £100 K Unknown instruction 
method.
In February 2022 Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported this to
Santander. This realisation came when he was due to receive over £1,000,000 from Mr B
(who was also going to buy back his home for him and provide him with two new cars) but
was then informed that hed been in an accident. Santander had intervened numerous times
in the series of payments Mr S had made to C. And overall they felt theyd done enough to
warn him of the risks involved. But in relation to two payments (9 and 14 September totalling
£28,000), they felt they could have gone further. And so they refunded him with that amount.
This still leaves Mr S at a significant loss, and he referred the matter to our service.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary
she didnt think that any reasonable level of questioning by Santander would have resulted in 
Mr S not continuing to make payments towards the scam. So, she didnt recommend that
they needed to do more.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. In August 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of Mr S linked complaints which arise from the same overall scam. But this
decision is limited to whether Santander have acted fairly and reasonably in all the
circumstances.
Overall, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator. But as Im providing a
greater level of detail, I wanted to issue this provisional decision to give both sides a further
opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear that Mr S has lost such a life changing amount to cruel and
callous scammers. I have no doubt as to the significant impact this must have had (and
continues to have) on him. My role here however is to act impartially to reach a fair and
reasonable outcome. So, despite my natural sympathy for Mr S situation, it would only be
fair for me to direct Santander to do more if they are responsible for failings which either
caused the loss or hindered its recovery.
Does the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) apply to this complaint?
In May 2019 the Lending Standards Board introduced the CRM Code. This is a voluntary
code through which victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams can sometimes
receive reimbursement from the banks involved.
Mr S believes the payments he made from his Santander account fall within the scope of theCRM Code. He has pointed out the way in which APP scam is defined in a recent
consultation by the Payment Systems Regulator. Specifically, that it involves a transfer to an
account controlled by the fraudster. He believes this supports the CRM Code being
applicable here. Ive considered this, but I think the definition within the CRM Code itself
should be used. And this means, for the CRM Code to apply, it requires that the payments
were made to another person.
Mr S testimony around this issue hasnt been consistent. When Santander (and B)
intervened in the payments he was making, he told them that hed opened the accounts with
C and K himself and that he had sole access to them. When Mr S reported the scam to
Santander, he was asked whether he opened the accounts himself or if they were opened
for him and he said: I was assisted in the opening of the account The following exchange
also took place:
Santander: What happens is weve obviously got your money to start with, so then, you
move your money from us to [C] and that money is then on that app. Did you move it from
that app yourself or did they have control of that?
Mr S: Well, I was being told to move it, so I was acting under instructions.
Santander: But they didnt have access to do that then?
Mr S: No.
Santander: So you moved it all to the trading account or the investment?
Mr S: Yes
This indicates that Mr S had both access to and control of the account. Further to this, when
reporting the scam to B, Mr S confirmed that he was guided by the scammers when opening
the cryptocurrency accounts, which suggests he did this himself. He was also asked if the
fraudster showed him how to convert the funds into cryptocurrency and send them on, to
which he replied yes. This again suggests that Mr S had access to and control of the
account. However, later in the same call, Mr S says that the account had two-factor
authentication (2FA) and that this was always provided by the scammer, who provided the
codes.
In his more recent submissions to our service, Mr S has said the accounts with C and K
were opened and controlled by the scammer. He points out that Mr B was able to apply for
a loan in his name with another business. Mr S has also shared what he says was part of his
communication with Mr B from February 2022 which shows that Mr B had opened a new
account in his name (although with whom isnt mentioned, and this was a few days before 
the scam was discovered). Mr S also said: (Mr B) had access and equal control of the
account. He opened accounts in my name, had the security details and passwords. He
frequently used TeamViewer to take over control of my iPad. Mr S also shared evidence of
what he says are emails sent, from his account, by the scammer and not him.
The net result of all of this is that I cant rely on Mr S testimony particularly in relation to
whether he opened and operated the accounts with C and K himself, as his testimony has
changed over time. In cases like this where evidence is contradictory or incomplete, I have
to make a judgement on the balance of probabilities. That being what I believe is most likely
to have happened, taking into account all the available evidence.
I asked Mr S to provide all the evidence he had of the communication between him and the
scammers. And having reviewed this I find the messages between him and the scammer to
be persuasive evidence and Ive placed more weight on it accordingly. It is, in effect, a
contemporaneous record of what was said.
The message evidence is clear that Mr S was talked through the process of opening the
account with C. It is equally clear that Mr S also had control of that account as there is aconversation about Mr S decision to withdraw £25,000 from the account with C back to his
bank account in September 2021  something the scammer criticised him for doing. This
withdrawal is also supported by evidence from Mr S Santander account statements  along
with various other withdrawals for lesser amounts made around the same time.
Similarly, the message evidence shows that Mr S shared with the scammer a Know your
Customer (KYC) email which hed received from K. This asked him to provide a photo of
himself, presumably as part of their account opening process. The messages that followed
involve the scammer assisting Mr S with submitting a photo and advising him of what to say
to K. Mr S also later shared confirmation with the scammer that his account with K was open
and had received a credit. This doesnt support that Mr S was unable to access that account.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think its most likely that Mr S opened the
accounts with C and K himself, albeit under the guidance of the scammers. Mr S has also
maintained this in all but his most recent submissions in response to our Investigators view.
I also think its most likely that Mr S shared access to his accounts with C and K with the
scammers. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me that the scammers had sole or
exclusive access to either account. Mr S submissions also include that hed reported the
scam to K who had blocked his account, something they would be unlikely to do, were it not
his account.
And in these circumstances, I cant fairly say that the payments made from Santander to the
accounts in Mr S name with either C or K, and to which Mr S had (or always could have
had) access, were transfers to another person.
Santander are a signatory to the CRM Code  but it is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all
push payments. As Ive mentioned above, it only covers scam payments when the funds are
being transferred to another person. In this case, on balance, I think Mr S sent the money to
his own accounts held with cryptocurrency exchanges before it was then passed on to
scammers. This means I dont think Santander have acted unfairly by not providing a refund
under the CRM Code. If Mr S has further evidence that the accounts he funded with either C
or K werent his, he should supply this in response to my provisional decision and Ill take it
into consideration.
But just because the CRM Code doesnt apply to the payments relevant to this complaint,
this doesnt mean Santander werent obliged to try to protect Mr S from financial harm due to 
fraud or scams. So, Ill go on to consider whether theyve acted appropriately in the
circumstances.
Did Santander do enough to try to protect Mr S from losing money to the scam?
Both parties agree that the majority of the payments Mr S made towards the scam were
unusual and out of character compared to his previous account activity. So, I wont discuss
that in further detail.
Santanders first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr S provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account (as they are here), Id
expect Santander to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended
transactions before processing them. Id also expect Santander to provide suitable warnings
about common scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to
continue with the payments. There might also be cases where its appropriate for Santander
to refuse to follow the instruction, if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a
result of a fraud or scam.In this case there were numerous instances of intervention from Santander with several
conversations between them and Mr S. Throughout these calls Mr S answers to the
questions from Santander included that:
He was investing in Bitcoin and was aware of the risks in doing so.
He had opened his Crypto wallet accounts himself and hadnt shared access or
details of these with anyone else.
He had previously withdrawn funds without issue.
He had an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) (based on a personal
recommendation) who he had fully checked out and met in person who was assisting
him with his investments.
I think Mr S himself acknowledges that not all he said to Santander when they were
challenging the payments was correct. To the best of my knowledge, Mr S didnt have an
IFA who had been recommended to him and who he had met in person. I assume Mr S was
referring to his account manager with N. Mr S also later said that he was assisted in setting
up the accounts with C and K.
Banks like Santander should be alert to victims of scams who might be being coached.
Which is why its important that any questions asked are probing in nature and designed to
try to unearth a potential scam. But, when not answering all the questions entirely truthfully,
Mr S actions hindered Santanders ability to try to protect him.
Around this time Mr S also complained to Santander because they kept stopping his
payments to C and kept asking him lots of questions. He says he was paid £50
compensation and was assured that the situation would improve, and he expressed further
frustration when he was still asked about payments going to C.
Some of the message evidence between Mr S and the scammer also supports that
Santanders questions and warnings were detailed and in depth. In early September 2021
Mr S said to the scammer: I was given the third degree about the dangers of scams and
crypto currencys and how I learned about your company. Was I cold called  No! Had I
done due diligence on the bank and [N]? Yes!...
Ive thought carefully about this, and Ive also taken into account how Mr S responded to
warnings given by B later in the scam in relation to payments sent from that account. And 
overall, I dont think any reasonable level of questioning would have prevented Mr S from
instructing the payments. In the calls Ive listened to Mr S sounds articulate and confident,
there isnt anything in his demeanour that I think should have caused Santander to have
further concerns. Overall, I think Santander did enough to highlight the risk of a scam and to
provide suitable warnings to Mr S. This is particularly the case when I consider the overall
impact of the numerous conversations that took place. And importantly, even if they ought to
have gone further (something Ill come to below in relation to two particular payments), I
dont think this would have made a difference.
Ive also taken into account that the £3,000 payment listed above was made in branch, with
an obvious opportunity for direct interaction and the potential to invoke the Banking Protocol.
The Banking Protocol is a joint initiative between financial institutions and the Police. It
centres around trying to protect customers from losing money to fraud, particularly in relation
to in-branch withdrawals or transfers. Santander havent been able to evidence what if
anything was said in branch at the time. And on that basis, this is one of the payments
theyve refunded. But even if more should have been done in branch, I dont think the activity
on the account, combined with the answers Mr S would most likely have given, would have
caused Santander concern such that they ought to have followed the Banking Protocol to itsconclusion of calling the Police. Ive no reason to think Mr S would have answered any
questions differently compared to how he did on the numerous calls Ive listened to.
Ive considered whether there was enough here for Santander to have refused Mr S
instructions altogether. This is a significant step for any bank to take given their regulatory
obligations as a payment services provider. To be clear, I do not expect a bank to refuse a
payment request lightly or without reasonable grounds for suspecting fraud. However, the
purchase of cryptocurrency can be a legitimate investment. And, based on all Mr S had told
Santander, I dont think they would have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud such that
refusing his instructions would have been a reasonable expectation. Mr S presented himself
to Santander as an individual wishing to invest in cryptocurrency without there being other
indicators of a potential scam. During one of the calls he said: If you dont know anything
about Cryptocurrency its a growing market. I have lots of investments. I invest in gold and
stocks and shares and all sorts of other things and Ive decided to invest in
cryptocurrencies.
Santander refunded £28,000 in respect of two transactions where they felt they ought to
have done more. But they maintained that even if theyd done all they should, it wouldnt
have made a difference to Mr S continuing with the payments. Im pleased Santander
decided to exercise their discretion in this way to provide a partial refund. But as I agree that
any potential failings in relation to the intervention in those particular payments wouldnt
have made a difference to either the payments being sent or the scam being discovered, it
isnt a basis upon which I can tell Santander they need to do more. Mr S was being coached
by the scammer as to what to say, and he accurately did what he was advised to, meaning
he was able to reassure Santander. And there wasnt anything so indicative of fraud in the
account activity itself, where I think Santander should have done more.
Im also satisfied that, upon receipt of notification of fraud, there wasnt anything Santander
couldve done that wouldve resulted in the recovery of more of Mr S funds.
Mr S says that at the time of the scam he was vulnerable due to his age, health and being a
widower. However, in a call with B (following the scam), Mr S was asked if he needed
additional support. And he responded that other than the stress caused by the scam he was
in good health and didnt need support. I wouldnt consider Mr S to be vulnerable based
solely on his age (which is in his 70s). And Im not persuaded that Santander treated Mr S
unfairly here. Mr S came across as a confident and articulate customer. And even if he was 
vulnerable, Im not persuaded this is something Santander reasonably could have known or
ought to have ascertained at the time.
As I said at the start of my decision, Im genuinely sorry to hear of the terrible crime
committed by the scammers and I hope the authorities are successful in prosecuting those
responsible and that this results in redress for Mr S. But as I dont think Santander are
responsible for any errors that caused or contributed to the loss, hindered its recovery, or are
obliged to provide a refund under the CRM Code, Im not intending to tell them to do
anything further to resolve this complaint.
Santander responded and said they had nothing to add. Mr S responded with some 
comments that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr S says hes listened to the call recordings between him and Santander and he says they 
all follow a similar format. So, on that basis hes unsure why they refunded him certain 
payments and not others. Santanders final response letter to Mr S initial complaint said:
We do believe that any warnings provided wouldnt have altered your decision to invest. 
However, on two occasions on 9 and 14 September 2021, our warnings were not reiterated 
sufficiently to you by our advisers. As a result, we have agreed to reimburse the value of 
each of these transactions which totals £28,000.
I think this makes clear that Santander dont believe any warnings would have made a 
difference, yet despite this they were willing to provide a not insignificant refund. Taking all 
the circumstances into consideration, including all the interaction Mr S had with both 
Santander and B, I dont think its likely that any reasonable level of warning or questioning 
would have made a difference to the payments being instructed. And had Santander not 
offered to reimburse the £28,000, this isnt something I fairly could have directed them to do. 
Clearly this payment is to Mr S benefit, but it doesnt mean Santander are required to do 
more. 
Mr S has also highlighted part of the communication between him and the scammer where 
the scammer indicates he had opened a new account in his name. I have made reference to 
that exchange (from February 2022) in my provisional decision. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above and as Mr S didnt raise anything new, I still think its most likely Mr S 
opened the accounts with C and K himself, albeit following instructions from the scammer. 
Again, Im sorry Mr S has lost such a significant sum of money to a scam. But as I dont think 
this is something Santander are responsible for, I cant fairly require them to do more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman