DRN-3976827
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with a hire agreement arranged by Blossom Leasing Limited (BL).
What happened
In September 2021 BL sourced a car hire agreement for Mr A with a third-party finance 
company. The finance could not go ahead at the time as the car Mr A wanted was not in 
stock. BL completed a car order form with an estimated delivery date of February 2022.
However, the delivery of the car was delayed past the estimated date due to manufacturing 
and production delays. BL contacted Mr A to tell him that as a result of the ongoing delays 
the car would be a newer more expensive model than the one originally planned at the time 
it arranged things for him. The finance would need to be re-proposed and overall the cost of 
the deal would increase.
BL said that Mr A could either accept the newer model with the associated price increases or 
cancel his order and get back the fee it had charged. Mr A was not happy with either option 
and complained. 
BL would not offer anything more and our service looked at the complaint. Our investigator 
explained that BL in its capacity as a credit broker was not at fault here for unforeseen 
manufacturing delays or subsequent price increases. She noted that BL had made its role 
clear from the outset and the offer to refund its fee was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr A is unhappy with this outcome and what has happened. In summary, he thinks 
it is unfair that he would have to accept an increase in the price which he says is 
disproportionate and is not his fault;
BL gave him the wrong estimate of delivery and due to the delays he has wasted a 
year of his time;
BL didnt tell him about the change of model and price increase until September 2022 
 he doesnt know why it didnt do this sooner, for example when it had updated him 
about the delays previously; and
BL was his first point of contact so should take responsibility for what has occurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to resolve disputes in an informal way. Although I have read and considered the 
submissions of the parties I will not be commenting on everything  only the matters I 
consider central to this complaint. 
I understand that Mr A feels very strongly about his complaint. I can see how frustrating what 
has happened would be for him and why he feels that he has done nothing wrong so should 
not lose out. I also note what he has said about the time he has spent waiting for the car 
which he feels has been a complete waste. But I also need to keep in mind the role of BL as 
a credit broker here and what it is fairly responsible for. 
The arranging of the deal
I note that the background to the situation appears to be unprecedented in that it was related 
to the global pandemic and relevant shortages of parts. Mr A has indicated that when he 
placed the order with BL these issues were already known  but I think it is difficult to say 
based on the evidence I have that BL would have known that the estimated date for delivery 
which it gave Mr A was unachievable in the circumstances. Ultimately, the situation with the 
overall extent of the manufacturing delays appears to have been difficult to predict.
I appreciate Mr A considers he has wasted time waiting for the car. But I dont think in its role 
as a credit broker BL is responsible for that. Nor do I think it misled him about the waiting 
time here. The order documentation it prepared for Mr A and which he signed clearly states 
that the delivery date is approximate only and that BL is not responsible for delays or 
associated costs as a result. It also appears to have kept him regularly updated about the 
ongoing delays.
The subsequent price increase and communication
The price of the car increased due to the production/manufacturing delays  the older model 
Mr A wanted was not going to be available so he could only have a newer more expensive 
version. This is no doubt frustrating, but it isnt the fault of BL as a credit broker here  nor 
does it appear that BL gave any guarantees or assurances about price in the event of 
circumstances like these.
I note that some of the increase in monthly payment appears to be due to the cost of the 
newly proposed finance increasing. But this is decided by the creditor and not credit broker. 
So I dont think it is fair to say that BL is responsible for this either.
I know Mr A questions why BL didnt tell him about the price increases earlier so he could 
have ordered another car and not felt like he wasted his time. But from the evidence I have 
seen it appears that it told Mr A about this shortly after it found out. And while it didnt initially 
explain how the proposed price increase broke down (in that some part was due to the need 
for a re-proposed finance deal) it did appear to give Mr A complete information about what 
the new payment would be so he could make a decision about what to do next. I also note 
that in follow up communication BL signposted the role of both the manufacturer and lender 
in the price increases and offered to clarify any further queries Mr A might have. Overall, I 
dont think the standard of its communication warrants compensation here.In summary
I know Mr A is unhappy BL in his view has not taken enough responsibility for what has gone 
wrong. But as I have explained  in its role as a credit broker it is not responsible for the 
additional costs here and appears to have acted fairly in passing on information about the 
status of the planned arrangement in a reasonable way. It also apologised for the situation 
and offered to refund its fees to Mr A  which I think is fair in the circumstances as Mr A has 
been unable to benefit from the original deal due to no fault of his own. Overall I dont think 
BL would reasonably be expected to do more here.
Putting things right
Mr A has unfortunately not been able to benefit from BLs services due to the manufacturing 
/ production issues that have occurred. I think it is fair that in the circumstances that it should 
refund its fee as it has offered. However, I dont think BL is responsible for the wider cost 
increases and I think the customer service it provided as a credit broker does not warrant 
further compensation.
My final decision
I direct Blossom Leasing Limited to pay Mr A the £216 fees it had previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman