DRN-3317304
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited said he wasnt entitled to a significant
discount to his premiums when his private medical insurance policy was next due to renew
after 65th birthday. Hes also unhappy with the customer service he received from BUPA.
What happened
Mr M had the benefit of a medical insurance policy through his employer (who Ill refer to as
U). After he took early retirement from U in around 2008, and because he continued to
receive a pension from them, he was able to continue to benefit from preferential rates as a
former employee of U.
He received a letter from BUPA dated 15 January 2008 which read:
when you reach the age of 65 you would automatically be moved into the
pensioners group which currently has a discount of 60%. I would add that discounts
and membership terms are subject to change so it would be a good idea to contact
us nearer your retirement so that we can go through your options with you.
Mr M contacted BUPA on 13 January 2020. He said his 65th birthday was a few months
away and wanted to see if he was still entitled to a 60% discount.
BUPAs representative wasnt able to provide assurances during that call but said he
would make some further internal enquires and get back to Mr M. He didnt do this and Mr M
chased BUPA for a response on 28 January, and 18 February 2020.
He was ultimately informed that BUPA had stopped providing the stipulated discount when
members of Us policy turned 65 in Mr Ms circumstances. Thats because it said the policy
was specially rated and the premiums Mr M had been paying  and would continue to pay if
he chose to continue to renew the policy  had been influenced by the claiming history of Us
employees/former employees.
Mr M wasnt happy with this explanation. He was also concerned that:
- BUPA hadnt notified him at any time after the letter dated January 2008 that the 60%
discount wouldnt be available after he turned 65.
- BUPAs representative hadnt clarified why he was no longer entitled to a discount
and hadnt got back to him, as hed been told.
BUPA treated his concerns as a complaint. It concluded that Mr M wasnt entitled to a 60%
discount even though hed reached the age of 65. The letter dated January 2008 explained
that discounts and membership terms were subject to change and there were no new offers
at the time that replaced the over 65s plan it had in place in 2008. It did, however, apologise
for its representative not sending details as promised after the call in January 2020 and
advised that feedback will be given.
Mr M brought a complaint to our Service, which wasnt upheld by our investigator. Mr M
disagreed with our investigators recommendations, so his complaint was passed to me
to consider everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2022 explaining why I was intending to partially 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. An extract of which is set our below: 
The over 65s discount
I can understand why Mr M will have been disappointed to discover that BUPA no longer
offered a substantial premium discount when reaching 65.
However, Im satisfied that the letter clearly sets out that discounts and member terms are
subject to change. And Im satisfied that the letter makes clear that theres no guarantee that
this offer would still be in place once Mr M reached 65 years of age.
Im also satisfied that BUPA was under no obligation  contractual, regulatory or otherwise -
to contact Mr M after the letter dated January 2008 (and before he was due to reach 65
years of age) to inform him that the discount offer, which was in place in 2008, was no longer
in place for him given the policy he had the benefit of.
Thats also supported by the letter dated January 2008 inviting Mr M to contact BUPA nearer
his retirement so that it could discuss his available options then (because discounts and
members terms were subject to change). And thats what Mr M did when contacting BUPA
on 13 January 2020.
The service received from BUPA
BUPA accepts that the representative Mr M spoke to when he called BUPA on 13 January
2020 didnt provide him with certain details as promised after the call. Its apologised and
said it will feedback to the representative to ensure this doesnt happen again.
As a result of not providing the information requested, Mr M called BUPA on 28 January
2020 to chase a response and to again seek to clarify what his options were. The
representative confirmed that he would email the representative Mr M spoke with on 13
January 2020 to ask him to call him back.
Having not received a reply, Mr M contacted BUPA again on 18 February 2020. He said hed
still not heard back from the representative despite sending an email. This was the first time
BUPA confirmed to Mr M that the discount set out in the letter dated January 2008 was no
longer available to him. And he was told that this was because his policy was part of a
specially rated group. Mr M asked for confirmation in writing and BUPA wrote to him around
a week later to confirm that the policy is specially rated price based on Us group claiming
history.
In this particular case, Im not persuaded that an apology is enough to recognise the distress
and inconvenience experienced by Mr M as a result of the poor service he received. He
wasnt given clear or definitive information during the call on 13 January 2020 about whether
the 60% discount mentioned in the January 2008 letter was still applicable to him. During
this call there was also mention that the discount rate had increased to 62% but that was
only available in certain situations and it was unclear whether that would apply to Mr M. The
call concluded by the representative telling Mr M that he would speak to the actuary and
pricing teams and get back to Mr M with the answers he sought. Mr M asked for all the
information to be emailed to him.Mr M didnt get clarity on this issue until around five weeks later, and that was only after he
spent time chasing BUPA by making two calls to them. I accept that this caused him
unnecessary and unreasonable inconvenience and worry, by not receiving information about
whether he was entitled to discount promptly after the call which took place on 13 January
2020.
I intend to direct BUPA to pay Mr M £100 compensation to reflect the distress and
inconvenience he experienced.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or information in response to 
my provisional decision. 
BUPA replied saying that they accepted my provisional findings. Mr M replied raising several 
points. In summary Mr M said:
Hed expected a decision in his favour;
After the call on 13 January 2020, he was left with the impression that the over 65 
discount group was still operating although closed to new business and transfers. Mr 
M says he didnt think hed be classed as new business and he wasnt transferring 
from any other scheme. He also thought he might now be entitled to a 62%. 
He doesnt think the position was made clearer during the call on 18 February 2020. 
He says he understood that at his next policy renewal date, and without having to 
move group or having any classification changed on his account, the discounted rate 
would be applied then. 
The letter dated 24 February 2020 did nothing but to confirm what he already knew 
when hed joined the scheme many years before; that the scheme was specially 
rated, and the price based on group claiming history. He didnt receive written 
confirmation of what was discussed during the call on 18 February 2020, as hed 
requested. 
BUPA has acted unfairly by offering a 60% discount in future to those policyholders 
over 65 years of age but later not offering any discount. By doing so, he says BUPA 
has tried to confuse elderly customers or wear them down. 
Not once during the conversations Mr M had with BUPA was he told that a discount 
wouldnt be applied to the policy premium at renewal. 
He couldve changed insurance provider in 2008 had he known that BUPA wouldve 
behaved like this but now any potential insurers wouldnt cover any of his pre-existing 
conditions which have occurred since 2008. 
He may have missed out on premium discounts when the policy had been renewed 
each year previously. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the further points Mr M has raised in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I remain satisfied that the letter dated January 2008 clearly sets out that 
discounts and member terms are subject to change. And Im satisfied that the letter makes 
clear that theres no guarantee that this offer would still be in place once Mr M reached 65 
years of age. For reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think BUPA had any 
obligation to contact Mr M after the letter dated January 2008 to inform him that the discount 
offer was no longer in place for him.
Mr M says that he couldve changed insurers at some time between 2008 and 2020 had he 
known that the 60% discount would no longer be available after he turned 65. However, Im 
satisfied that the letter dated January 2008 didnt offer any guarantees that the discount 
would be available many years into the future and he was free to make enquiries with other 
medical insurance providers at any time and weigh up the cost and benefits of taking out 
private medical insurance with another provider.
Having listened to the calls Mr M had with BUPA in early 2020, Im satisfied that Mr M was 
aware on 18 February 2020 that he wasnt entitled to a discount of either 60% or 62%. He 
was told that BUPA dont offer those discounts to policyholders over the age 65 anymore in 
such circumstances. I accept that because the policy was due to renew many months into 
the future, BUPAs representative couldnt confirm the premium at the next renewal date. I 
dont think thats unfair or unreasonable as I would usually expect the premium to be 
calculated closer to the date of renewal rather than halfway through the policy year.  
I remain satisfied that Mr M wasnt given clear information during the call on 13 January 
2020 about whether he was entitled to a 60% discount after turning 65 (and he was told by 
BUPAs representative that this percentage had increased to 62%). It was left that BUPAs 
representative would revert back to Mr M after hed clarified some things internally and when 
Mr M didnt hear from him  understandably  he chased BUPA. He wasnt told until 18 
February 2020 that he wouldnt receive the discount of 60% or 62% - which was the second 
time he had to chase BUPA.
As such, I remain satisfied that Mr M experienced distress and inconvenience as set out in 
my provisional decision and I think BUPA should pay him £100 compensation to reflect this  
which its agreed to do. 
I can understand that Mr M may not have received in writing the information he was given 
over the phone on 18 February 2020 as hed requested during that call. However, he did 
receive a letter dated 24 February 2020 and if that letter didnt contain all the information he 
wanted, he couldve followed this up with BUPA. But I cant see that he did at the time. And 
in any event, the letter wouldve only confirmed what hed been told during the call  so it 
was information he already knew. So, I dont think he has been impacted by not receiving a 
more detailed letter confirming the discussion that took place around a week prior.  
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision (an extract which appears 
in the background of this final decision), I only partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Other issues
Mr M has raised concerns that BUPA may not have calculated his medical insurance
premiums correctly over many years  and hes also unhappy with the cost of his policy
upon renewal in October 2020. However, those complaints werent raised with BUPA before
it issued its final response letter to Mr M in September 2020. If he remains unhappy aboutthose issues, he is free raise them with BUPA in the first instance - to allow it an opportunity
to investigate in accordance with its complaints procedure.
Putting things right
I direct BUPA to pay Mr M £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. I direct BUPA Insurance Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman