DRN-2969905
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about the refusal of a claim on their legal expenses insurance 
cover with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). 
LV uses agents to handle claims on its behalf. For ease, all references to LV in this decision 
should be read as also including anything said or done on its behalf by those agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a new-build property in June 2014. After moving in, they noticed a 
number of faults. Mr and Mrs M tried to resolve these with the developers but not all the 
issues have been rectified. The main issues outstanding are inadequate or missing lagging,    
cut trusses and faulty central heating system. In July 2019, Mr and Mrs M submitted a claim 
under the policy with LV, as they had been unable to resolve these issues. LV initially said it 
would get a legal assessment of the matter from one of its panel of pre-approved solicitors. 
However, before this was done, it told Mr and Mrs M the claim was not covered, as the 
problems with the property had arisen soon after they moved into the property in June 2014, 
which pre-dated the start of the policy which was June 2015. LV says it does not think the 
heating problem would not have been noticed until June 2015. It says it is likely it was 
apparent in the preceeding winter. LV also says it is a condition of the cover that any 
incidents should have been reported within 180 days from the date they arise, and this issue 
was not reported to it until July 2019.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend it be upheld as she 
was satisfied the insured event, which was the subject of the claim, had started before the 
policy started and so it was not covered. 
Mr and Mrs M do not accept the investigators assessment. They are very unhappy with the 
situation and have made a number of points, which Ive summarised below: 
Some of the faults were apparent before they took out the policy but some only 
became apparent later. The three issues they want to take action about were only 
found after they took the policy out - they wrote to the developer to complain about 
the central heating on 22 June 2015 just after they noticed it was not working 
properly upstairs; they became aware of the cut truss on 26 June 2017 and the 
lagging on 23 April 2018.
They complained about these faults as soon as they were aware of them. 
They have been passed from pillar to post and no one has helped them. 
LV has renewed the policy and taken their premiums every year without asking for 
any other information and no mention of these conditions has been made to them, 
which is taking money under false pretences as they cant use the policy. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this has been an ordeal for Mr and Mrs M. There have been a number of faults 
with the property, which has affected their use and enjoyment of their home; and while trying 
to resolve these with the developer, they were threatened. In addition, Mr and Mrs M have  
had medical issues to deal with. However, despite my natural sympathy for their situation, I 
do not consider Mr and Mrs Ms claim for the expenses of taking legal action against the 
developer is covered and I will explain why. 
This policy does not provide cover for every legal dispute that a policyholder might be 
involved in. Rather, like all insurance policies, it provides cover for a number of specified 
insured events. In this case the relevant section of cover is for the cost of legal action 
pursuing or defending a claim relating to  A breach of an agreement for the sale or 
purchase of your home. 
This is then in turn subject to various terms and conditions. One condition that applies to all 
sections of cover is that the insured event that gives rise to the claim must have occurred 
within the period of insurance. I do not consider this to be unusual or inherently unfair. 
Insurance policies are generally intended to cover future, unforeseen events. 
The policy defines an Insured event as follows: 
The start of an individual or series of events that may lead to a claim under this section. We
will treat all events related by cause or time as one.
The insured event will be treated as occurring on the date you first became aware of the
start of an individual or series of events, problems or disputes covered under this insurance.
Mr and Mrs M said they noticed faults from the very first day they moved into the property 
and they were already in discussions with the developer about the issues with the property 
(albeit not specifically the three outstanding issues they now want to take action about) soon 
after they moved in, in June 2014. This was almost a year before the policy was taken out.  
Even if not all the faults were apparent to Mr and Mrs M until after the policy started (and I 
dont think I need to make a finding about that) this doesnt mean they would not still be 
treated as being related by cause. It seems to me that all the faults, regardless of when they 
were noticed by Mr and Mrs M, are related in time and cause, as they relate to the way the 
property was built and their potential claim against the developer for selling them an 
inadequate property. And so for the purposes of the policy I think it is not unreasonable that 
they are treated as one event. As faults were first identified and known about before the 
policy started, I consider LV was acting in line with the policy terms and was not acting 
unfairly when refusing the claim. 
LV also referred to a policy condition that any claim be notified within 180 days of knowing 
about the cause of the claim. Mr and Mrs M say that they did report the issues as soon as 
they were aware of them. However, while they reported the issues to the developer, Ive 
seen no evidence they notified LV. So LV would potentially also be entitled to rely on this 
condition in refusing the claim. 
The policy provides cover for a number of insured events and the fact it doesnt cover this 
claim, doesnt mean LV has taken Mr and Mrs Ms premiums wrongly. 
Mr and Mrs M also say they were provided with insurance cover, also with LV, by the 
developer for the first year they owned the property and they then renewed that cover in 
June 2015. LV says there is no record of any previous legal expenses cover. It investigated this, as if there were previous legal expenses cover, then the above term relied on to refuse 
the claim might no longer be relevant. However, Mr and Mrs M said that the policy provided 
by the developer was for the house only and it was only when they renewed the policy in 
June 2015 that they added the legal expenses cover. So it seems Mr and Mrs M accept 
there was no legal expenses cover prior to June 2015.  Ive not seen any evidence there was 
and so the previous home insurance policy does not change the outcome on this case. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for their position, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman