DRN-1751268
The complaint
Miss H complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss H was given a SafetyNet facility in November 2016. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit given to Miss H in November 2016 was £250. The credit limit was then 
increased three times  the last increase being to £390 in June 2017. Miss H stopped using 
the facility in December 2019 when she had repaid her account in full.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Hs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting the facility were proportionate and that the information SNC gathered 
about Miss Hs circumstances suggested she would be able to afford the repayments. So, 
she didnt think it was wrong of SNC to offer the facility.
The adjudicator also didnt think the way Miss H used her facility was concerning until
15 September 2017. By this point, the adjudicator didnt think further drawdowns shouldve 
been allowed. She thought Miss H appeared to have become reliant on the facility and not 
able to repay it sustainably because of wider financial issues.
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. It said that the facility wasnt intended to be used by 
Miss H like a one-off short-term loan because it works in much the same way as a credit 
card. SNC feels the important factor isnt the number of withdrawals Miss H made, but the 
outstanding balance on her account, which was never greater than £514.80.
Miss H appears to accept what the adjudicator has said. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were given.
Both Miss H and SNC appear to accept that it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to have
been approved or for the drawdowns prior to 15 September 2017 to have been lent.
As such, it seems that the initial lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a 
finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether SNC did anything wrong 
when it granted the drawdowns from 15 September 2017. But I have kept the other 
drawdowns in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between SNC and 
Miss H.
When SNC agreed the two drawdowns on 15 September 2017, there was an expectation 
that it would review and monitor how Miss H had been using the facility. Indeed, the 
guidance at the time that can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 6.7.2 
says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
What this means is that it wasnt enough for SNC to just carry out an assessment before the 
facility was approved or where there was a credit limit increase. It needed to continue to 
monitor how Miss H used the facility and then step in and provide help when or if it could see 
she was, or was likely, having financial difficulties.
By monitoring, SNC could check whether it was still reasonable for it to believe that    Miss H 
would be able to repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period  which is how the 
facility was designed to be used. But if Miss H wasnt using the facility as intended, this could 
indicate to SNC that she was having wider financial problems.
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Miss H to continue to drawdown, Ive
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of
those payments, and then when Miss H returned for further borrowing. After all, if Miss H
was drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this 
ought to have indicated that SNC taking the full payment from Miss Hs account was causing 
her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had just taken.
Having reviewed the same information that SNC had, I agree with our adjudicator that there 
was clear information which ought to have led SNC to decline Miss Hs request for any 
further drawdowns from 15 September 2017. I think SNC ought to have been reasonably 
aware that by this point Miss H wasnt using the facility in a sustainable manner. Ill explain 
why.
The loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation doesnt
automatically mean that a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. The industry 
regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and that the customer 
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments 
and without having to borrow further to do so. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Miss H drew down the full credit limit (£250) on 3 December 2016 not long after the facility 
had started. She then repaid the outstanding balance in full towards the end of that month.
In January and February 2017, she continued to take drawdowns and repaid the balance in 
full by the end of each month. Although I can see that, on both occasions, it wasnt long 
afterwards that Miss H drew down further amounts. 
This also happened following the drawdowns in March 2017. Miss H drew down four times in 
March 2017 through payments of £180, £100, £220 and £150. On 13 March 2017 she repaid a significant part of the outstanding balance before the payment of £220 was lent the same 
day. And following the repayment of the full outstanding balance on 31 March 2017, later 
that day she drew down a further £150 - a sign that she wasnt repaying the outstanding 
balance sustainably. The monthly amount Miss H borrowed in March 2017 was also the 
largest monthly total by that point, suggesting she may have been becoming more reliant on 
the facility.
A similar pattern of borrowing took place from June 2017. Miss H repaid the full balance on 
15 June 2017, 14 July 2017 and 15 August 2017 before drawing down amounts at or 
towards the facilitys credit limit on the same day or within 2 days each time. By 8 September 
2017 further drawdowns took the outstanding balance to the credit limit again before the 
balance was repaid in full on 15 September 2017. By this point, Miss H had made 38 
withdrawals on her credit facility. And the same day a further two drawdowns were lent 
taking her outstanding balance back up to the credit limit. I accept the number of drawdowns 
on its own may not be a sign of financial difficulties, but they are useful in demonstrating any 
patterns in the way Miss H used the facility.  
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Miss H had also started using an overdraft facility and 
incurred overdraft interest and overdraft usage fees from July 2017. And I can see it wasnt 
long before the overdraft limit had reached £1,250 and it appears Miss H was generally at or 
around this limit around this time. I think SNC would also have known from Miss Hs bank 
statements that she didnt seem to be able to main consistent repayments for her Council 
Tax. 
  
Miss H also appeared to be relying on short-term loans in order to manage her finances. 
SNC wouldve been aware of this through her bank statements. I can see Miss H was 
borrowing from another lender from January to June 2017. And then on 1 August 2017 she 
took a personal loan from a different lender, suggesting her underlying financial situation 
hadnt improved. I can also see Miss H was making repayments to short-term lenders 
throughout 2018 and 2019, suggesting to me that she was having longer-term problems 
managing her money.  
Looking at everything together, I think there were clear signs that Miss H was having
financial difficulties, and this was reflected by the fact that she wasnt using the facility as
SNC intended. So, I agree with the adjudicator that Miss H had most likely become reliant on 
the facility because its most likely she was struggling to maintain control of her finances.
I think this is something that SNC ought reasonably to have been aware of had it reviewed 
and monitored the facility through the bank statements that it had access to. So, I think that 
by 15 September 2017 there was a clear risk that any further drawdowns were not going to 
be repaid in a sustainable manner.
SNC has said that we should view the facility as if it were a credit card and that the 
outstanding balance is the important factor in considering whether the facility was 
sustainable. Firstly, the SNC facility isnt a credit card and, secondly, as Ive indicated above, 
I think monitoring the facility (as SNC was required to do) extended to more than simply 
considering Miss Hs outstanding balance. And had SNC done this and considered what it 
was seeing in her bank statements, I think it ought to have stopped lending and allowed Miss 
H to repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period  which is how the facility was 
designed to be used. 
So overall, I think SNC was wrong to allow Miss H to continue to draw down on the facilityfrom 15 September 2017.
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss H, SNC should:
refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Hs facility from 15 
September 2017;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file from 15 September 
2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss H as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman