DRN-4366867
The complaint
Mr P complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined part of a claim under 
a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P contacted Aviva to make a claim for storm damage. Aviva agreed to cover some of the 
damage, but said it wouldnt cover the damage to the conservatory or the front garage door. 
When Mr P complained to this service, it was agreed that Aviva would carry out a new 
survey and reconsider the claim.
Following this, Aviva carried out the new survey. It told Mr P that it still wouldnt cover the 
damage to the conservatory or the front door to the garage, as it wasnt storm related 
damage. When Mr P complained to Aviva, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, 
Mr P brought his new complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the new complaint and didnt uphold it. She said it was reasonable 
for Aviva to rely on its experts opinion and to decline the claim for the conservatory and the 
front garage door. 
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions around the time of the claim and having 
looked at the weather conditions, I can see there were storm strength winds. I also think a 
storm could damage a conservatory and a garage door in some circumstances. So, I think 
the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
First, Ive considered the conservatory. The new survey found issues with the condition of 
the conservatory. This included issues with the flashing, sealant and roof panels, which had 
allowed water to enter. Looking at the report and the photos, the surveyor identified a range 
of pre-existing issues and explained why these would have been the cause of the damage 
rather than the storm. So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on this to decline the 
claim for the conservatory. 
Im aware Mr P provided further comments and photo and video evidence, which Ive 
considered, but this doesnt change my view. For example, Ive looked at the photo of the 
conservatory Mr B provided that he said was taken about seven months before the incident. 
I couldnt see rust on the conservatory roof, but Im aware the angle of the photo and the 
distance at which it was taken makes it difficult to directly compare Mr Ps photo with the 
surveyors. I also note Mr P has described how quickly a fire pit rusted in his garden. So, this 
doesnt persuade me that, even if there was no rust seven-months before the storm, it 
couldnt have appeared after the photo was taken but before the storm happened or that it 
was unreasonable for Aviva to decide the rust was pre-existing. I also dont think the video 
Mr P provided to show the door wasnt bloated at the time he recorded it showed the door 
wasnt bloated at the time of the surveyors visit.
Ive also looked at the damage to the front garage door. When Aviva carried out the new 
survey, it said no storm damage had been found to the door. It found issues with the frame, 
including that the leg joints were rubbing against the frame for some time, affecting its ability 
to open and close. Overall, the survey concluded that the weight of the door should have 
been able to suppress the winds and that the deterioration of the frame and missing pointing 
around that area, which might have added pressure to the spring, led to the door moving up 
and down and being out of plumb. In my view, Avivas assessment explained the likely 
cause of the damage and its reasons for this and why the main cause of the damage was 
due to pre-existing issues, not the storm, even if the storm highlighted the damage.
Im aware Mr P thought some of the surveyors photos gave a misleading picture of the 
damage and didnt show it in full, including the dent in the door. He also provided photos and 
videos of the garage door, which Ive looked at along with his comments. I dont think these 
show that Avivas conclusions were unreasonable. Mr P has commented on issues such as 
his more recent photos showing the frame hadnt moved any further away from the wall in 
the period between Avivas photos being taken and Mr P taking his photos, which Mr P said 
he would have expected if Avivas assessment was correct that the movement was due to 
progressive wear and tear. Its my understanding that Mr P doesnt have specific expertise in 
this area, including on how this issue would have progressed, and I dont think I can fairly 
say his view should override Avivas experts view about the condition of the door at the time 
of the survey.
So, having considered the circumstances of the claim and complaint, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim for the conservatory and the front garage door. As 
a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further in relation to it.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman