DRN-4426901
The complaint
Mr U complains about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
He says that Monzo didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Monzo to refund him the money he has lost as a result.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr U received a WhatsApp message offering a job opportunity. He was 
busy at the time, so didnt reply until January 2023.
Mr U later made contact with the scammer and was persuaded to sign up to the supposed 
job, which involved purchasing cryptocurrency from individuals before transferring this from 
his own crypto wallet on to the scammer and completing tasks in order to earn commission.
In total, Mr U paid £4,008.68 to the scammer before he realised he had been the victim of a 
scam.
Mr U then complained to Monzo, but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy, he brought his complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
things, but they didnt think that the complaint should be upheld either.
Mr U didnt accept the Investigators view, so this complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator.  Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr U has been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a 
result. However, even when a scam has taken place, and an individual has been tricked out 
of their money, it doesnt necessarily follow that the individuals bank will need to refund the 
money that has been lost.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM) doesnt apply 
in this case, as Mr U paid individuals for cryptocurrency which was transferred to his own 
crypto wallet before he moved this money on to the scammer  so the loss didnt occur from 
his account with Monzo but from his own crypto wallet. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I 
have taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr U when he authorised payment from his account or whether it could, and should have 
done more before processing the payments. 
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably in Mr Us case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monzo should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  however it cant 
reasonably be expected to be involved in every transaction a customer makes. 
Having considered Mr Us account activity before the scam I agree with our Investigator that 
the scam payments werent sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic when compared to his 
normal spending pattern and so I wouldnt expect Monzo to flag them or ask Mr U any 
questions about them.
So, I cant say that Monzo shouldve been obliged to have gotten in touch with Mr U about 
the payments  and Im satisfied that it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments 
from being made.
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mr U has found himself in  he has been cruelly 
scammed out of money. However, the loss that he has suffered is ultimately caused by the 
scammers themselves  not Monzo. And I cant ask Monzo to refund this loss to Mr U when I 
dont think that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman