DRN-4130828
The complaint
Mr J complains about Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook)s response to a claim under 
section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
In 2014, Mr J purchased a solar panel system (the system) for his home. He paid the 
supplier using a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook, which was repayable over 15 
years. 
In 2022, a claims management company (the CMC) made a claim on Mr Js behalf under 
section 140 of the Act. It alleged that the system had been misrepresented to Mr J in that he 
was told the benefits of the system (income and savings) would cover the monthly loan 
repayments, making it self-funding. The claim alleged that this caused the relationship 
between Mr J and Shawbrook to be unfair on him. 
Shawbrook didnt respond to the claim, so the CMC made a complaint about this on Mr Js 
behalf. Having not received a response within eight weeks, the CMC referred the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She concluded there was insufficient evidence to show there had been a 
misrepresentation or that the relationship between Mr J and Shawbrook was unfair on him. 
The CMC disagreed with this on Mr Js behalf, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance, standards, and codes of practice and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 140A is 
about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this case, Mr Js 
claim relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system and that this created an unfair 
relationship between Shawbrook and Mr J.
The only available evidence of what happened is what Mr J has told us and a copy of the 
credit agreement, which shows what Mr J paid for the system. There is no other evidence 
from the time of sale that helps indicate what happened. So, I need to think about whether 
Mr Js recollection is plausible and persuasive enough to justify me upholding the complaint 
(for example, if I think there was a misrepresentation that most likely made his relationship 
with Shawbrook unfair on him  such that Shawbrook shouldve accepted his claim or upheld 
his complaint). 
Having thought about the available evidence I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I 
am not persuaded that Mr Js recollection of what happened is plausible and persuasive 
enough for me to say there was a misrepresentation. Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr J says he was told the system would pay for itself on a monthly basis, because the 
income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. Given that apparently didnt 
happen, I would expect Mr J to have noticed this soon after the system was installed and to 
then pursue the matter  with the supplier and with Shawbrook if the supplier didnt respond. 
Mr J says he tried to contact the supplier, but it did not return his calls and then went out of 
business. He contacted Shawbrook about this in 2021 via the CMC.
I understand that the installation of the system took place around July 2014. The supplier 
was dissolved in May 2019, almost five years later. I think that means that Mr J had almost 
five years in which he couldve contacted the supplier. If he felt then that he had been misled 
I wouldve expected him to pursue this until he got a response  and if he didnt to have 
some evidence of his attempts (beyond his recollection). 
But Mr J appears to have no evidence to confirm that he contacted the supplier about this 
issue  such as an acknowledgement or a copy of a letter or email he sent to the supplier. 
After the supplier was dissolved, it was then more than two years before he made his claim 
to Shawbrook via the CMC. So, between the sale and Mr J making a claim there was a gap 
of over seven years. I think this undermines the plausibility and persuasiveness of Mr Js 
recollection of what he was told, because I think hed have some evidence of pursuing the 
matter. 
Overall, I do not think there is enough evidence for me to conclude that the supplier 
misrepresented the system to Mr J in the way alleged. And Ive not seen anything else that 
makes me think the relationship between Mr J and Shawbrook was unfair on him. 
In light of this I do not think I have sufficient reason to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman