DRN-2290146
The complaint
Mr O complains that Gefion Insurance A/S held him at fault for two claims made on his 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O said that Gefion had settled two claims made against his policy when he wasnt 
involved in the incidents. This has affected his premiums at renewal. He wants the claims 
removed from his record.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Gefion 
had been provided with evidence that Mr O had been involved in the first incident. Gefion 
thought it wouldnt be able to defend the matter in court, and so it settled it after giving Mr O 
opportunity to comment. He thought Gefions engineer had shown that alleged damage to 
another car in the second incident was likely to have been caused by Mr Os van. And so he 
thought it had also reasonably settled this claim. 
Mr O replied that he hadnt had any emails from Gefion about the pay-out for the first 
incident. He said he had an independent witness for the second incident who would say his 
van hadnt damaged the other car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O said that Gefion had paid two claims without his knowledge when he wasnt involved in 
one of these incidents and hadnt caused any damage in the other. 
It isnt our role to decide whos responsible for causing an incident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr O the same as someone else in his 
position. 
I can see that Gefion is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr O to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. This is explained on page 21 of the policy booklet 
under Negotiation or Settlement. So Mr O has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making its decision 
about it. 
In the first incident, Mr O denied any involvement. Gefion initially challenged the claim. But 
Gefion was provided with evidence which it thought showed that Mr O had exchanged 
details at the scene. It said the other driver had Mr Os mobile phone number which matched 
his and brought up a photograph of Mr O. It thought it would be difficult to continue to deny 
involvement in the incident. 
Gefion emailed and asked Mr O for any objections or else it would settle the claim. But Mr O 
didnt respond. Mr O said he didnt receive this email. But I can see that it was sent to the 
correct address. So I cant say that Gefion didnt send it. 
In the second incident, Mr O said he was reversing when his van made contact with the wing 
mirror of the other car parked on the road. He said the other driver was claiming for pre-
existing damage caused some days earlier. He said his van wasnt damaged. Mr O provided 
images of the vehicles and Gefion had its engineer inspect them for consistency. The 
engineer thought the claimed for damage was recent and consistent with the incident. So 
Gefion said it had no choice but to settle the claim. 
Mr O said he had a witness, but this neighbour didnt see the incident. He looked at the 
vehicles after the incident. So I think Gefion reasonably decided that the neighbour wouldnt 
be able to provide an independent account of the event. 
So I think Gefion reasonably investigated the claims and considered the evidence available 
before deciding to settle them. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say it did anything wrong. I can see that Gefion settled the claims on a 
without prejudice basis, so Mr O is free to take these matters further at his own expense if he 
so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman