DRN-2823050
The complaint
Mr M complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) didnt respond quickly enough to 
his request to voluntarily terminate his finance agreement.  
Mr M has been represented throughout the course of this complaint but for ease, and 
because Mr M is the person named on the finance agreement, I will refer to Mr M in this 
decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint RCI, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
On 28 February 2020 Mr M sent an email to RCI asking them to allow him to voluntarily 
terminate his agreement with them. That email wasnt from the email address RCI had for 
him on file. But it did contain his name, the details of the car and his finance agreement 
number.
RCI say they did nothing with this email because it was from an unfamiliar/unauthorised 
email address. 
It took some time to get Mr Ms representative authorised to communicate with RCI and by 
the time a representative was in place and the voluntary termination (VT) forms were 
returned, it was 22 April 2020 and a payment had become due for 15 April 2020.
I dont think it would be fair for RCI to charge Mr M for this payment because:
I think they could have made efforts to communicate with Mr M after he emailed them 
on 28 February 2020. Whilst I understand there may have been concerns about the 
email address he had written to them from, the email contained accurate information 
and he had been in contact with RCI only a few days earlier to request a settlement 
quotation. So, I think it would have been quite evident this was likely to be a valid VT 
request and RCI could, and should, have attempted to contact him to clarify if he had 
made that request. 
Mr M has explained that the new car he was financing was also being financed by 
RCI and that they were communicating with him regarding this agreement on the 
email address hed used in his email of 28 February 2020. I think its therefore likely 
that RCI would have been aware of the new email address and the likelihood it was 
Mr M who was trying to VT his agreement. 
RCI were not initially aware of Mr Ms deafness. But on 2 March 2020 their system 
records show the dealership told them about Mr Ms disability. I think they could have 
been fairer to him and have understood Mr M needed some help to communicate 
with them and coordinate responses with his representative. I think RCI could 
therefore have considered that the delays were, in part at least, due to the impact of 
his disability.   
Putting things right
For those reasons I think it would be fair to tell RCI to waive the April 2020 payment.
Ive considered whether to tell RCI to pay any compensation to Mr M. I dont think thats fair 
in the circumstances as I dont think there is evidence that RCI knew about Mr Ms disability 
and, whilst I think their actions could have been fairer, I can understand they were trying to 
ensure they were communicating with people authorised to act on Mr Ms account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to waive the charge of £367.41 for April 2020 and to remove any adverse reports 
they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in respect of this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman