DRN-2676557
Complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr A says AXA France IARD mis-sold him PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mr As store card balance in the event 
of Mr A being unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The policy also provided purchase protection. Mr A hasnt complained about this element of 
the insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision. 
At the time, the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. AXA has given me a copy of the store card agreement that Mr A signed. In this, 
there was a separate section titled Payment and Purchase protection which had a brief 
description of the cover and gave Mr A the option to tick a box if he wanted the cover. I 
can see Mr A ticked the box to confirm he wanted the PPI, and I think it was equally clear 
he could have left the section blank if he didnt want it. Its unclear why, but the PPI 
wasnt added to Mr As account at that time. Instead, it was added two months later 
following a telephone conversation. Ultimately, I think it was clear in the application form 
that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI, and it was eventually added to the account as 
he requested.. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr A enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out- so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A - for example he wasnt affected 
by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what 
he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
Mr A has said that he had good sick pay with his employer and that he would have 
received at least 12 months of full pay if he was sick. From my experience, this is very 
unusual for his type of work. We asked for anything that could help evidence this but, 
understandably, Mr A no longer had any documentation to show what his sick pay was. 
Without anything else to clarify this further, I think its more likely he could have found the 
policy useful as it could have covered his payments for up to 12 months per claim if he 
was too sick to work, had an accident or was made redundant. On balance, I dont think 
Mr A would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman