DRN-3801417
The complaint
Mrs A complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) declined to repair 
the car she had bought under a hire purchase agreement after it broke down.
Mrs A is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr A.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs A acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. At the time, the car was five months old and the mileage was about 1,000 miles. 
Two and a half years later, in April 2022, it broke down. As it was still under warranty, BMW 
agreed to repair it, and gave her a courtesy car. But a few days later it told her the repair 
was not covered by the warranty, because its garage (the first garage) had found that the 
kind of oil which had been used was not on BMWs approved list of oils. So it declined to 
carry out the repair work, and withdrew the courtesy car.
Mrs A did not agree that the wrong oil had been used. In August 2022 another garage (the 
second garage) repaired the car (at a cost of £10,675). This garage had written in its invoice 
that a turbo had failed, causing seals to leak, allowing water into the cylinders, which caused 
the engine to stall. Then a connecting rod had broken and punctured the cylinder block. The 
second garage did not say why the turbo had failed. But in a phone call to our investigator, it 
added that the engine had been in very good condition (other than the damage), which it 
said would not have been expected if the wrong oil had been used. 
BMWFS was not persuaded by this evidence, because the second garage was not an 
accredited BMW garage, but a third party. BMWFS maintained that there had been no defect 
at the point of sale, and the car had not been serviced properly. And after Mr A brought this 
complaint to our service on behalf of his wife, BMWFS added that the service history showed 
that the car had last been serviced in October 2020, at a garage that was also not affiliated 
with BMW (the third garage). Consequently there was no way of knowing if the last service 
had been carried out up to the manufacturing standard. BMWFS added that Mr A had 
provided two invoices from that garage, one showing the wrong type of oil had been used 
and then a second showing the correct oil, which it said was suspicious and unconvincing. 
When BMWs own garage had inspected the car, the oil was found to be thick and 
congealed, suggesting that the wrong oil had been used. BMWFS added that there had 
been no need for Mrs A to take the car to a third party garage, as the car had still been 
within the three year warranty period.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said that although the oil used was not BMWs 
proprietary oil, as required, the oil actually used had the same characteristics as BMWs, and 
so it was unlikely to have caused the fault. She found support for that conclusion in the 
report from the second garage, which had said there was no sign of the oil causing the 
breakdown. She thought that report was more convincing than the findings of BMWs own 
garage, as the second garage had conducted a more detailed investigation.
Nevertheless, the investigator thought that overall, the evidence provided by both parties 
was inconclusive. The car had been supposed to be serviced annually, but 18 months had 
passed between the last service and the breakdown. So she thought the breakdown could 
have been either the result of a defect at the point of sale, or because of poor maintenance 
and Mrs As driving style, but she couldnt tell which. As the car had been repaired, it was not 
possible to get another report. So the investigator decided that as she was unable to 
determine which it was, it would be fair to require BMWFS to pay Mrs A half of the cost of 
the repair, refund half of the payments she had made between April and September 2022, 
and pay her £150 for her inconvenience.
Mrs A accepted that opinion. BMWFS did not, and it asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
reiterated the points it had made earlier. It said that using the wrong type of oil could have 
caused the turbo to fail.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With respect to my colleague, I do not think it is right to require BMWFS to pay Mrs A half of 
the compensation to which she would be entitled if it was clear that BMWFS was liable, just 
because it is not clear whether BMWFS is actually liable or not. I think it is my responsibility 
to decide whether BMWFS is liable  in which case I should award full compensation  or 
not, in which case I should not award anything. I must choose one or the other, based on 
such evidence as is available.
Although it is not in dispute that the oil used by the third garage was not on BMWs list of 
approved oils, I am satisfied that the oil used still met the same specifications. Page 402 of 
BMWs owners manual deals with the subject of oil. It says BMW Longlife-04 should be 
used (alternatively ACEA C2 or ACEA C3 may be used instead, but only for topping up). 
The oil actually used was XTR 5W-30 LS. Various websites say that this is equivalent to 
BMW Longlife-04, and I have no reason to doubt them. This is also confirmed by a letter 
from the Alliance Automotive Group, which sells this oil to the third garage; this letter (dated 
4 May 2022) enclosed a list of technical specifications. So I think it is safe to conclude that 
using this oil would not have caused the turbo to fail.
I am reinforced in that opinion by the fact that the BMW manual says:
When selecting an engine oil, make sure that the engine oil belongs to one of the following 
viscosity classes:
It then lists six viscosity classes, one of which is SAE 5W-30. The oil used met that 
requirement.
Furthermore, the manual does not say that only BMW approved garages may be used to 
service the car, although it is recommended.
For all of these reasons, I am satisfied that the car should not have been considered to be 
out of warranty because the wrong oil was used or because the car was serviced in a garage 
that was not a BMW garage.
However, the manual also says:
NOTEEngine oil not changed in time can lead to increased engine wear and thus engine 
damage. There is a danger of damage to property. Do not exceed the service date 
indicated in the vehicle.
As I have said, the last time the car was serviced was in October 2020, which is 18 months 
before it broke down in April 2022. The car should have been serviced after 12 months. So 
even if the correct oil was used, if it was not changed regularly enough then this could have 
contributed to the car breaking down. So it is still unclear whether the breakdown was 
caused by a fault which was present or developing at the point of sale.
I have listened to the recording of the call between the investigator and the second garage, 
in which she asked the garage to elaborate on its diagnosis; she specifically referred to what 
the garage had written in its invoice. The engineer said he did not know what had caused the 
turbo to fail (although he was sure it was not because the wrong oil had been used). But he 
then went on to say that oil had leaked from the turbo, and that this oil leak was because of a 
manufacturing fault. He did not explain why he thought that, or exactly what that fault would 
have been, and I note that what he said is quite inconsistent with his earlier statement in the 
same call that he did not know what had caused the turbo to fail. He said that the oil leaking 
from the turbo had gone into the intake manifold, and from there into the engine, causing 
high compression, causing the breakdown. That is a rather different account to what he or 
his colleague had written in the invoice, which, as Ive said, was about water leaking into the 
cylinders. So I am afraid that I do not find any of this testimony to be persuasive.
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that it is not possible to determine whether 
the turbo failed because of ordinary wear and tear, exacerbated by the car not having been 
serviced for 18 months, or because the turbo had some (still unidentified) fault at the point of 
sale. But I do not think it would be safe to infer that there must have been such a fault just 
because the turbo failed, and when the nature of the alleged fault is unknown.
I find support for that opinion in the fact that the car was used normally for more than two 
years without any issues. This wouldnt have been the case if there was a problem 
developing at the point of sale.
It follows that it would not be fair and reasonable of me to require BMWFS to do anything 
else.
I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr A did not accept my provisional decision. As well as annotating a copy of it with his 
comments, which Ive read, he also made the following points:
At the time of the breakdown, the car was in excellent condition. Its mileage was only 
about 20,000 miles, and it was still within the warranty period.
Mr and Mrs A had always had the car serviced as soon as the service light came on.
It was Mr and Mrs A who had told the garage that it was the turbo that had failed, and 
not the other way around.
Current BMW servicing parameters make no provision for inspecting turbos.
Because the turbo had failed, BMW cars with turbos ought to have been recalled to 
find out why they have such a short lifespan.
Mr and Mrs As own research had discovered that after 2019 the model of Mrs As 
car was altered by having the number of turbos reduced, which they have concluded 
is because the turbos were unreliable.
BMW had never offered to inspect the car themselves. Instead, they had simply 
quoted £45,000 for a new engine.BMWFS had nothing to add following my provisional decision.
My findings
A turbo normally ought to last for the lifespan of the car, so I have reconsidered whether it 
would be fair for me to infer that Mrs As turbo must have been faulty at the point of hire, 
rather than failing due to normal wear and tear, on the ground that it failed when the car was 
only three years old and had been driven only 20,000 miles. I believe I can reasonably infer 
that there was a fault with the turbo, which caused it to fail, but I am afraid that I am still not 
persuaded that the fault was necessarily present when Mrs A acquired the car (as opposed 
to developing at some point later on). The nature of the fault has never been identified, and 
without knowing that, there is no way of fairly judging whether that fault must have been 
present all along, or how long the fault could have been present before causing the turbo to 
fail.
I have taken into account section 19(14) and (15) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. The law 
says that when a fault is discovered within the first six months of goods being delivered to a 
consumer, the fault may be presumed to have been present on the date of delivery. After six 
months, the presumption no longer applies, which is the case here. 
I dont think that a change to the number of turbos on the relevant model of car necessarily 
proves that BMW has reservations about the turbos, or that the turbos do not work properly. 
There could have been other reasons for the change.
I remain of the view that there is not enough evidence for me to safely conclude that the car 
was defective when it was delivered to or collected by Mrs A. So I do not require BMWFS to 
do anything.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman