DRN-4104984
The complaint
Mr D has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in October 
2021, using a hire purchase agreement with MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MIVF).
What happened
Mr D acquired a used Mercedes in October 2021, using a hire-purchase agreement with 
MIVF. The cost of the car was £109,000, of which Mr D borrowed £84,662.45 over a term of 
60 months, with a monthly repayment of £1,626.78. The car was about nine months old and 
the mileage at the point of supply was 6,163.
Mr D complained to MIVF in February 2022, raising a number of issues as follows:
He said he believed the car had previously been in an accident, having been told this 
by one of the dealerships he had taken the car to.
There was a noise from the air vents in the central console.
There was wind noise from the rear passenger window.
The chrome on the driver door and frame wasnt aligned.
The driver side of the car needed realignment.
The rear left hand side bumper was sticking out slightly.
Windscreen wipers were faulty at the point of supply.
Two parts of the car were removed during a service at Mercedes in Turkey.
The front side carpet behind the front wheels came off when travelling at high speed.
There was a stone chip in the windscreen.
Brake discs and pads required replacement.
Rear tyres required replacement.
MIVF responded to the complaint to say that, after discussion with the supplying dealership, 
it was partly upholding the complaint, in that some of the items were being repaired or 
replaced. These were the air conditioning (said to be the cause of the noise from the air 
vents) the passenger window, the chrome on the driver door and frame and the windscreen 
wipers. However, it said other listed issues were due to wear and tear. In addition, Mercedes 
had conducted a paint test and confirmed that on all the metal panels, the paint is original, 
so there were no signs that this vehicle was in an accident before the point of supply. 
Mr D then contacted MIVF in May 2022, to say he was unhappy that the previous repairs to 
the vehicle hadnt been completed correctly, in that the noise coming from the centre 
console, and the passenger window draught, were still present and the windscreen wipers 
were still making a noise despite them being replaced. Mr D also said that he had paid for 
the rear bumper to be aligned and clipped back in, which hadnt been completed.
MIVF said in response that it had been in contact with the supplying dealership, which 
arranged for the vehicle to be returned to Mercedes where the original repairs were 
completed. Further repairs were done, but Mr D stated that there was still a noise coming 
from the centre console. MIVF said that Mercedes had confirmed that it had been unable to 
identify a fault and unable to replicate the noise coming from the centre console despite 
numerous test drives. However, If Mr D could supply further evidence of the problem, MIVF 
said it would look at this again, MIVF also said it would pay Mr D £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused, and I understand this payment has been made.
Mr D was unhappy with all this, and brought his complaint to this service. Mr D told us that 
the noise from the central console was worse and was now coming from the side vents as 
well as the centre, and he sent in a video to demonstrate this noise. He has also said that 
the sunroof is cracked, and the rear panel behind it misaligned, this having happened during 
the course of repairs in June 2022. He wants MIVF to fix the problems with the vehicle which 
he initially highlighted and to replace the sunroof as it cannot be repaired.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, and concluded that it should be upheld in part. 
MIVF did not agree, and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Because MIVF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was about nine months old, so would have incurred some 
wear and tear before it was supplied to Mr D.
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality. 
Mr D has had repairs done at more than one Mercedes dealership. He sent in details of the 
sequence of events, together with copies of several email exchanges with the dealerships 
involved, and with MIVF. He also sent in videos to support his comments about the noise, 
and photographs of the sunroof. MIVF sent in copies of its records of Mr Ds complaint, 
along with the hire purchase agreement and copies of its own email exchanges with the 
dealerships. 
MIVF sent in an e-mail, dated April 2022, from the dealership that carried out the inspection 
and servicing of the car just before the point of supply in October 2021. It said that the only 
fault found at that point was a loose small trim on the leading edge of the offside front wheel 
arch. (The visual inspection report also provided by MIVF states offside front splash guard 
damaged).
The email went on to say that in the dealerships inspection in April 2022, there was a great 
deal of damage to the vehicle, which required removal of both front and rear bumpers to 
rectify, a new undertray, wheel arch liners, and two ducts under the vehicle. The air-
conditioning was also inoperative and required further investigation, and there was potential damage to the condenser. The dealership said the damage wasnt present at the point of 
supply, and noted that that the car had travelled over 15,000 miles in the intervening seven 
months. The dealership further said that it was going to carry out adjustments to the rear 
passenger side window glass under warranty.
I can also see from an email from MIVF to Mr D in April 2022 that, as part of a list of issues 
and repairs, it was noted that the windscreen wipers were faulty at the time they were 
provided, and that the dealership would be covering the cost of replacing them as they were 
mentioned in a report at the time of the sale.
It is not in dispute that most of the items Mr D complained about to MIVF have been rectified, 
either under warranty, or at Mr Ds expense where the issues were due to wear and tear 
occurring whilst he had the car. 
The items repaired or replaced under warranty were the air conditioning (said to be the 
cause of the noise from the air vents) the passenger window, the chrome on the driver door 
and frame and the windscreen wipers. 
Looking at the other items that Mr D raised with MIVF:
Theres no evidence that the car had previously been in an accident, and the paint 
test I mentioned above supports that view.
With regard to the driver side of the car needing realignment, and the rear left-hand 
side bumper sticking out slightly, the inspection carried out by Mercedes in April 2022 
suggests the front bumper had scuff marks, indicating some impact to the front 
bumper as the cause of both issues. Theres nothing in the information from the point 
of supply to suggest these issues were present then.
With regard to the two parts of the car removed during a service at Mercedes in 
Turkey  clearly this happened after the point of supply, and the inspection by 
Mercedes suggested these items were snapped off rather than removed 
Mr D said the front side carpet behind the front wheels came off when travelling at 
high speed. I noted above that Mercedes identified considerable damage to the 
underside of the car - since the point of supply  which is the likely cause.
The final three items  the stone chip in the windscreen, and the brake discs and 
pads and rear tyres requiring replacement, were noted in MIVFs response to Mr Ds 
complaint as being due to wear and tear. Given that the car had travelled over 
15,000 miles in some seven months, and I understand had been driven across 
Europe, I think this is reasonable. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the repairs to the passenger window, the windscreen 
wipers and the alignment of the chrome on the driver door and frame werent successful. So 
the items that remain are the noise from the centre console and the damage to the sunroof. 
With regard to the sunroof, it is not in dispute that the damage to this was not present at the 
point of sale. Therefore I cant fairly hold MIVF responsible for rectifying this. Mr D said this 
occurred during the course of other repairs, and our investigator said in his view that Mr D 
should take this up with the relevant dealership, and if unable to resolve it, should refer it to 
the Motor Ombudsman (or seek independent legal advice) as a complaint of this nature is 
outside the scope of this service. This is correct and therefore I dont uphold this element of 
Mr Ds complaint.With regard to the noise from the centre console, MIVF originally said that the vehicle 
required an air conditioning re-gas, as this was thought to be the cause of the noise. This 
was completed by Mercedes. However, it did not rectify the problem.
In January 2023 Mr D told us that a Mercedes dealership in London had identified that the 
centre console noise was coming from the multifunction camera, and he was waiting for the 
relevant part to be delivered and installed to see if that dealt with the noise. A few weeks 
later Mr D confirmed that this had not solved the problem. He said the noise was still 
present, and repeated every 20 - 40 seconds, so that he had to turn on music to cover it. He 
sent in a copy of his email to the dealership, including video evidence of the problem. 
In April 2023 Mr D told us that the Mercedes dealership in London had raised a technical 
ticket with Mercedes head office in Germany. It had requested that the electrical wiring in the 
area be tested, which had been completed and sent to Mercedes head office. Further 
instructions were awaited from the head office on how to resolve the issue.
Mr D sent in a further video in May 2023, (which had been copied to MIVF) in which the 
noise is evident, and it is clear the vehicle was not travelling at a particularly high speed.
In July 2023, Mr D said he had received an update from the Mercedes dealership in London 
saying that Mercedes head office were sending a special tool which is designed to suppress 
interference, and which can be attached to the power and ground line for the camera; this 
should hopefully suppress the sound to the point it cannot be heard. I dont have 
confirmation that this has been completed.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, its clear that, given the high usage of the 
car, some of the issues Mr D originally raised were due to wear and tear after he acquired 
the car, and indeed Mr D has covered the cost of those. However, the evidence suggests 
that some faults were present at the point of supply. I say this because, in an email from the 
dealership to Mr D, its noted that Mr D complained about a wind noise/whistle and an 
alignment issue with the door a few days after taking delivery of the car. MIVF mentioned the 
windscreen wipers and alignment of the chrome on the driver door and frame as noted 
above. And Mr D and MIVF sent in copies of various email exchanges regarding the noise 
from the central console. This was a high-end car that was only around nine months old, and 
taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply given these faults.
Our investigator issued his view in March 2023. He said that he thought the complaint should 
be upheld in part in that, although the repairs were complete or due to be completed, he 
thought Mr D should be compensated for the impaired use of the car - because of the 
reoccurring noise from the centre console - by a refund of a proportion of Mr Ds monthly 
payments, together with a further payment of £500 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused (although MIVF has already paid £100 to Mr D in this respect).
MIVF disagreed with our investigators conclusions, saying that it didnt understand how Mr 
D had had impaired use because of a noise coming from the centre console when he had 
covered more mileage than an average user would. MIVF also said that the vehicle had 
been into multiple Mercedes garages which had been unable to replicate the noise or find a 
cause. The only evidence was in the form of videos, but it was not clear what speed Mr D 
was travelling at in the videos, and MIVF wondered whether the noise only appeared when 
travelling at high speed and this is why it could not be replicated on test drives. MIVF was 
not satisfied that the noise had been diagnosed as a fault. MIVF also said it felt the payment 
for distress and inconvenience was high. Mr D, on the other hand, thought that the compensation suggested by our investigator was 
inadequate as it failed to account for the loss of enjoyment he had experienced while driving 
the vehicle with the constant and loud ticking noise emanating from the electrical unit 
Furthermore, he said, it didnt adequately address the inconvenience caused by having to 
make repeated visits to Mercedes dealerships to try and resolve the issue.  
Ive thought about both parties responses, and Im conscious that there have been further 
developments in terms of the referral to Mercedes head office for technical advice and the 
recent email from the dealership about the provision of the specialist tool for the camera. 
Im satisfied from the evidence that its more likely than not that theres a fault that is causing 
the noise from the central console, and the most recent information is that the issue lies with 
the multifunctional camera. The Mercedes dealerships have accepted that there is an issue 
and have sought to rectify it. The various videos support Mr Ds testimony that it is constant, 
and the most recent video answers MIVFs query about speed, as it is clear that Mr D was 
not travelling at high speed when that was filmed. And as I noted above, Mr D first raised a 
concern about the noise within a few days of taking delivery of the car. So overall Ive no 
reason to change my conclusion that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. So I have decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part  that is, that he should be 
compensated for the impaired use of the car. For the avoidance of doubt, I do not uphold the 
element of Mr Ds complaint that relates to the sunroof, as the damage was caused after the 
point of supply and I cannot hold MIVF responsible for rectifying it. 
In terms of impaired use, I accept that Mr D has been able to drive the car normally and 
indeed has driven long distances. However, I dont think it reasonable that Mr D should have 
had to put up with a constant noise that required him to play music to disguise it  especially 
in a car of such a high specification (and high cost). Our investigator thought that a refund of 
5% of the monthly payments was appropriate, and I see no reason to disagree. 
Our investigator also thought a further payment of £500 should be paid in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr D (although MIVF has already paid £100). Given that the 
problem has been present for nearly two years and has required numerous visits to 
Mercedes dealerships without resolution, I consider this has caused a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience and therefore I agree that MIVF should pay Mr D £500 in this 
respect. I note Mr Ds comments, but I dont consider a higher amount appropriate. 
Putting things right
MIVF should:
refund to Mr D 5% of each monthly payment made since the start of the agreement 
to date;
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £400 in addition to the payment of £100 already made in 
recognition of the distress or inconvenience caused by the ongoing fault.
*if MIVF considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. MI Vehicle 
Finance Limited should pay Mr D the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman