DRN-4037836
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs S complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) withdrew a mortgage offer and made 
an entry about them on the National Hunter database in connection with a joint mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs S applied for an interest only mortgage with TSB in August 2021. The 
application was initially successful, and TSB sent them a mortgage offer. However, TSB 
went on to withdraw the offer and leave markers against them on the National Hunter 
database. The National Hunter database is a cross-industry fraud prevention database 
which allows financial services providers to share relevant information, subject to 
safeguards.
TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong, and that it wasnt prepared to remove the markers.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He thought TSB had reasonable grounds to suspect 
it had received false information in support of an application. So, he didnt recommend that 
TSB removed the markers.
Mr W and Mrs S remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. They remain unhappy that TSB 
withdrew its binding mortgage offer in October 2021 without saying why or giving them the 
opportunity to help resolve TSBs concerns. They say they had to withdraw from the 
purchase of the property they were getting the mortgage for, even though they had already 
paid £600 in legal fees in relation to that purchase. They also told us that Mrs S (who worked 
with TSB on a self-employed basis) was told she would lose the opportunity to work with 
TSB as a result of the marker against her. Mrs S went on to successfully appeal that 
decision. However, the relevant team took a number of weeks to come to that conclusion. 
They think that TSB should remove the markers given that Mrs S is still considered to be an 
appropriate person to work for it.
After the complaint was passed on to me to review TSB sent us more information that I 
considered in my provisional decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a different conclusion from our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr W and Mrs S applied for the mortgage in 2021, TSB considered the information 
and evidence it received in connection with the mortgage application and carried out 
underwriting checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether 
it wanted to lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation on TSB to lend 
money to Mr W and Mrs S. It wasnt obliged to give reasons for refusing to do so either.
TSB accepted Mr W and Mrs Ss mortgage application and sent them a binding mortgage 
offer in September 2021. This happened after TSB considered the application and received 
information about the buy to let properties Mr W and Mrs S were using to fund the mortgage.
However, TSB reviewed Mr W and Mrs Ss application at the end of September 2021. By 
that stage TSB had tried to verify some of the information Mr W and Mrs S had provided with 
a relevant third party, but it was unable to do so. So, it went on to withdraw the mortgage 
offer and record the markers.
I understand why Mr W and Mrs S were so unhappy that TSB withdrew their mortgage offer. 
It was binding, so I appreciate they thought they were entitled to rely on it. However, I can 
see that the mortgage offer said that TSB may withdraw or change its offer at any time if it 
thought there was fraud or if it was told something material that was untrue or misleading. 
Im satisfied that TSB thought those conditions were met. The overall reason for the markers 
is recorded as Conflicting or Unconfirmed Employment Details.
When making a referral to the National Hunter database, TSB had to have reasonable 
grounds for doing so. It didnt have to disclose the detail of those reasons to Mr W and Mrs S 
but it did have to meet the standards set by National Hunter.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why TSB had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
application. By the time Mr W and Mrs Ss application was reviewed internally, TSB had tried 
to verify some of the information provided to it with a relevant third party, but it was unable to 
do so.
In circumstances where TSB was unable to verify some of the information Mr W and Mrs S 
had provided with a relevant third party, I would expect it to carry out a further investigation 
into Mr W and Mrs Ss mortgage application. Having considered the information TSB has 
provided us with, Im satisfied that it carried out a full review of Mr W and Mrs Ss application 
as I would expect it to do. Amongst other things TSB carefully considered Mr W and Mrs Ss 
payslips, bank statements and the information they had given about their employment.
However, Ive considered TSBs thinking alongside what TSB has told us about its decision 
to continue to allow Mrs S to work for it after the markers were applied. I think its surprising 
that TSB continues to say that it remains appropriate for the markers to remain on the 
National Hunter database when it has also decided that Mrs S can continue to work for it on 
a self-employed basis. I say that because I think its unlikely that TSB would allow Mrs S to 
continue to work for it if had sufficient evidence to say that Mrs S was involved in fraud.
Taking this matter as a whole and having weighed up all the evidence and arguments very 
carefully, I can understand why TSB had concerns about the information it had been given in 
connection with the mortgage application. So, I understand why it took the commercial 
decision it did to decline to lend to Mr W and Mrs S and why it applied the markers in the first 
place. However, Im not persuaded that as things stand today, after the further review which 
took place, the weight of evidence about Mr W and Mrs S is enough for the markers to 
remain on the National Hunter database. So, I think TSB should remove the markers. Mr W 
and Mrs S want TSB to reimburse them for the £600 they say theyd spent on legal fees to 
purchase the property that they said they were unable to purchase when the mortgage offer 
was withdrawn. I can understand why they want that, but as I dont think that TSB was wrong 
to apply the markers in the first place, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
say that TSB should reimburse them for that £600.However, Im conscious that the markers have been on the National Hunter database for a 
significant amount of time now. In particular, the markers have remained on the National 
Hunter database for some time after TSB decided that the risks are such that Mrs S can 
continue to work for it on a self-employed basis. As I said above, I think its likely that TSB 
would have taken steps to stop Mrs S working for it on a self-employed basis if it thought she 
was involved in fraud. And it ought to have revisited the markers following that review. So, 
considering what Mr W and Mrs S have told us about the impact of the markers on them I 
think that TSB should pay each of them £500 (£1,000 in total) to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience TSB caused them by not removing the markers after it decided that it would 
continue to allow Mrs S to work for it after the markers had been applied.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say that he and Mrs S were delighted with my provisional decision and 
had no further comments to make.
TSB didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered what I said in my provisional decision with reference to the responses 
to it.
As Mr W and Mrs S were happy with my provisional decision, and as TSB didnt respond to 
it, I see no reason to depart from what I said it in for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
To put things right I think TSB should remove the markers it applied against Mr W and Mrs 
Ss names on the National Hunter database and pay them £500 each (£1,000 in total) to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should remove the 
markers it applied against Mr W and Mrs S names on the National Hunter database.
In addition, it should pay Mr W and Mrs S £500 each (£1,000) in total to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman