DRN-3297821
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc acted irresponsibly when it lent him £25,000 for a 
personal unsecured loan. 
What happened
In late 2015, Mr S took out a personal loan with HSBC for £25,000, with a five-year term and 
a monthly repayment of around £600. In 2021, Mr S complained to HSBC. Whilst making a 
separate complaint, hed done a subject access request, and in the information provided, he 
felt HSBC hadnt done a proper review of his financial situation before agreeing to lend to 
him in 2015.
He said HSBC had used an incorrect figure for his net monthly income, which would have 
been obvious from his bank statements, and it should have been clear to HSBC that in 2015 
his account was being used frequently for gambling transactions. He said he was 
experiencing severe gambling problems in 2015 so HSBC was irresponsible in lending to 
him.
HSBC didnt agree it had acted unfairly in lending to Mr S. So he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think HSBC had carried 
out proportionate checks before approving the loan. She said Mr S already had a credit card 
and current account with HSBC, so it should have seen Mr S wasnt managing his finances 
well when he applied for the loan. She felt proportionate checks would have shown it was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr S. So she said HSBC should refund all interest and charges paid 
on the loan. 
Mr S accepted the outcome but HSBC didnt. It provided a detailed response saying in 
summary:
Mr S current account was running in a satisfactory manner at the time the loan was 
taken out.
Mr S income was verified against his account.
Because this was a consolidation loan, HSBC didnt increase Mr S overall levels of 
debt.
There were only three gambling transactions totaling £520 in the three months prior 
to the lending, which wouldnt have raised a cause for concern.
Our investigator disagreed with the points made by HSBC, so HSBC asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if HSBC treated Mr S 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loan. 
These include: 
1) Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would 
be able to repay the loan? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
3) Ultimately, did HSBC make a fair lending decision?
Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the time, outlines that the 
assessment that HSBC needed to complete and shouldve been dependent on, and 
proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit and the 
consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information 
HSBC may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. HSBC is 
free to decide how to set its lending criteria, but it should complete proportionate checks to 
ensure borrowing is responsible.
Mr S was applying for a £25,000 loan, with a monthly repayment of nearly £600 over an 
extended period of time. This is a considerable amount, so based on CONC, Id expect to 
see more detailed checks than for repayments of a much smaller amount, to ensure it could 
be repaid in a sustainable manner. HSBC said the loan was taken out in branch, and a 
budget planner was completed with Mr S. It said based on his monthly income of £4,800, he 
had disposable income of around £2,900 per month. As the loan repayment would be 
around £600 and the loan was to consolidate other debts, HSBC said the loan was auto-
approved in branch. 
HSBC said it did also review Mr S credit file, and it showed no adverse data, so it considers 
its checks to be proportionate. And it said it used model figures on family spending to decide 
Mr S would be able to meet the repayments. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide the credit reference agency information it says it checked. 
However, it says the data it obtained at the time showed Mr S held £52,700 of unsecured 
debt. Which it acknowledges is around 65% of his gross annual income. I consider this to be 
a high level of debt. And it doesnt appear HSBC took steps to verify any of the payment 
amounts in the budget planner, even though Mr S was an existing customer of HSBC. Given 
the amount of the debt and his existing debt profile, Im not satisfied these checks were 
proportionate for a loan of that size, with repayments of nearly £600 per month over five 
years.
So Ive considered what proportionate checks would have shown. Mr S had declared a high 
monthly income, the current account into which his wages are paid is also a HSBC one. I 
consider HSBC should have taken steps to verify his income. A review of his HSBC bank 
statements, which would most likely have been easily accessible to a branch staff member, 
would have shown his net monthly income was actually around £3,200, considerably lower 
than in the budget planner, which significantly reduced his monthly disposable income.
And as an existing customer of HSBC, Id also expect it to review the information it had on 
Mr S relating to how hed managed his finances. Its clear Mr S didnt have disposable 
income of nearly £3,000 per month as HSBC acknowledges he had debts totalling 65% of 
his gross annual income. And he went over his overdraft limit on several occasions in the 
months leading up to the loan being approved. HSBC has said this wouldnt be a reason not 
to lend to Mr S. However, a review of how he handled his account would have also shown a 
number of payments regularly leaving relating to his other debts, and several gambling 
transactions. 
HSBC has said there were only three gambling transactions amounting to £520 in the three 
months prior to the application. But that isnt the case. From August 2015 there were in fact six gambling payments totalling £1,800, as well as cash withdrawals from casinos amounting 
to £2,100. I think a review of this would have at the very least caused HSBC to question 
whether the lending would be responsible as the evidence shows that Mr S didnt have the 
ability to take on further borrowing. 
HSBC has said it cant forensically review a customers bank statements before making a 
lending decision. But I find it should have been clear from even a quick review that the 
figures provided in the budget planner were not an accurate representation of Mr S income 
or expenditure, and further checks were needed to ensure he could sustainably repay the 
loan.
HSBC has also argued it wasnt exposing Mr S to more debt, as this was a consolidation 
loan. But as Ive set out above, it didnt ensure he could sustainably repay the loan. And 
HSBC still allowed Mr S to have a credit card limit of £2,000 following the loan, and a 
reduced overdraft limit of £500. So even with the consolidation loan of £25,000, he still had 
access to a further £2,500 credit with HSBC. So overall, Im not satisfied that the evidence 
shows HSBC made a responsible lending decision. 
To put things right, HSBC needs to refund all interest and charges Mr S has paid in relation 
to the loan. Its unclear from this file whether the loan is still in place. If it is, HSBC will need 
to reduce the outstanding capital balance with the refund of interest and charges. If, having 
done so, there remains an outstanding capital balance, HSBC should ensure it
isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if refunding interest and 
charges pays off the capital balance, then any other amount should be given to Mr S. And 
HSBC will need to add 8% on this amount, from the date the payments were made, till the 
date of settlement. HSBC will also need to remove any adverse information from Mr S credit 
file.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to:
Refund all interest and charges applied in relation to the loan;
If the loan is still running, the refund from the above should be used to reduce the 
outstanding capital balance on the loan;
If, having done the above, there is still a capital balance, HSBC should remove any 
future interest and/or charges;
But if refunding interest and charges clears the capital balance, any surplus amount 
should be paid to Mr S. And HSBC will need to add 8% simple interest1 on any 
amount it pays Mr S from the date the payments were made, until the date of 
settlement. 
Remove any adverse data from Mr S credit file relating to the loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off
if they ask for one.