DRN-3027557
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they couldnt trade online because Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited was having problems with its systems. They say it took a long time to 
get through on the phone and, by the time the trades were placed, prices had moved against 
them. They say that, due to errors by Hargreaves Lansdown, the trades they completed 
resulted in a £40,000 deficit on their account which they had to fund.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J wanted to sell £50,000 worth of shares in a company that Ill call V. And to 
reinvest the proceeds in a company that Ill call A. They placed dealing instructions online 
for two sales of £10,000 each in V. But the sales did not show on their online account.
They phoned Hargreaves Lansdown, but it took 50 minutes to get through to a dealer. Mr J 
gave instructions to invest £20,000 in A; to sell £30,000 worth of V shares (in addition to the 
£20,000 worth theyd already sold online); and to reinvest the proceeds in A shares. Mr and 
Mrs J say it took the dealer a long time to place the trades and the price moved against 
them.
Hargreaves Lansdown removed Mr and Mrs Js second purchase of £10,000 of V shares 
because it thought it was a duplicate trade. During its investigation of Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint, it realised its error but decided not to reverse that removal, because the price had 
moved in Mr and Mrs Js favour.
Hargreaves Lansdown also removed the trade to sell £30,000 worth of V shares, because 
Mr and Mrs J did not hold £30,000 worth of shares. But the purchase of A shares had gone 
through. This meant that Mr and Mrs Js account went into deficit of around £40,000.
Hargreaves Lansdown apologised for the problems Mr and Mrs J had faced trying to place 
trades. It said that, due to unprecedented market activity and volatility, it experienced 
difficulties with the live pricing displayed through its website and that its customers had 
trouble accessing their accounts and placing trades online. It said Mr and Mrs J needed to 
fund the deficit on their account by either selling shares or introducing cash, or it would 
remove the purchase of A shares.
Mr and Mrs J sold enough A shares on 4 January 2021 to bring their account back into 
credit.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that, 
whilst this had been a frustrating incident for Mr and Mrs J, Hargreaves Lansdown had 
treated them fairly and that theyd benefitted from price movements.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree, saying that Hargreaves Lansdown should compensate them for 
their losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was clearly a frustrating experience for Mr and Mrs J. They wanted to trade online and 
faced difficulties. There was then a long delay before they could speak to a dealer to place 
the trades by phone. 
Hargreaves Lansdown says Mr and Mrs J had agreed to the terms and conditions of the 
service which say:
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
We may at our absolute discretion suspend the operation of our Online Service and/or 
telephone services where we consider it necessary. For example, suspension may be 
necessary for technical reasons, emergencies, regulatory reasons, where we decide it is 
sensible for our or our clients protection, in periods of exceptional trading activity or to 
ensure the continued availability of other services. Occasionally, we may need to suspend 
the provision of the HL Service (including the Online Service) to maintain or upgrade our 
systems. We will not be liable to you if our systems or services are unavailable to you for 
trading or information purposes for whatever reason.
But this term doesnt negate the need for Hargreaves Lansdown to treat its customers fairly. 
I would expect, in a situation where its service is interrupted, for Hargreaves Lansdown to 
take action to ensure consumers can access their accounts and trade as soon as reasonably 
possible. And I find thats what it did here. Although Mr and Mrs J faced difficulty trading 
online, they could place deals by phone, albeit with a lengthy delay. And Hargreaves 
Lansdown says its systems were fully operational again within a relatively short time.
I find Hargreaves Lansdown did make a mistake when it removed Mr and Mrs Js second 
sale of £10,000 of V shares. It wrongly thought this was a duplicate trade. It realised its 
mistake when it was investigating Mr and Mrs Js complaint. It didnt reverse the removal 
because the price had moved in Mr and Mrs Js favour. So I find it treated them fairly here.
Hargreaves Lansdown also removed the sale of £30,000 worth of V shares because Mr and 
Mrs J didnt hold enough shares. This would have been clear if there hadnt been problems 
with Hargreaves Lansdowns systems, but neither Mr and Mrs J nor the dealer could see 
how many shares they held before the order was placed. But I think the dealer gave Mr and 
Mrs J the opportunity to check this before they agreed to deal. The trade which was removed 
was to sell the shares at 17.5p. I can see that when Mr and Mrs J sold the shares in 
March 2021, the price had risen. 
Mr and Mrs J sold £40,000 worth of A shares on 4 January 2021 to fund the deficit on their 
account. And the shares were sold at a profit. 
Overall, I dont find Mr and Mrs J incurred a financial loss here. And I dont find they had to 
sell A shares to fund the deficit if they didnt want to. They could have sold their V shares, as 
originally intended, or funded the deficit from elsewhere. I dont find Hargreaves Lansdown 
treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly  it provided the best service it could in the circumstances it 
faced, and it worked with Mr and Mrs J to put things right as fairly as possible.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman