The complaint
Mr R explains that Scottish Widows Limited provided him with an incorrect quote for the 
value of his pension fund in 2016, correcting their mistake in 2019. He complains that he 
made the decision to increase his pension contributions because of their mistake, and they 
have failed to do enough to put things right. 
What happened
Mr R had an independent review of his pension arrangements in 2016. As part of the 
review Scottish Widows provided a quote of the value of the pension Mr R had with them. 
Mr R explained that the review led him to believe that his overall pension provision wasn't 
enough for the retirement that he'd planned. In January 2019 he increased the amount he 
contributed into another pension scheme he held by £403 a month.
In May 2019 Scottish Widows contacted Mr R and explained that they'd made a mistake in 
calculating his pension value. The correct figure should have been £34,357.65 higher than 
they said in 2016.
Mr R complained to Scottish Widows, explaining that he'd increased his pension 
contributions based on their information. Mr R explained that he was deprived of the use of 
that money in 2019 and was caused stress and worry about his retirement plans since 2016. 
He was unhappy that it had taken Scottish Widows three years to inform him about their 
error. Scottish Widows apologised for their mistake and paid Mr R £2000 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience their mistake caused.
Mr R remained unhappy with this outcome so brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He thought that the compensation that Scottish 
Widows had already awarded was a fair way to address the impact of their mistake.
Mr R didn't agree with our investigator's view and felt that it would be fairer of Scottish 
Widows to compensate him for the additional 12 months pension contributions that 
hes made - totalling £4836 - in addition to higher compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1696495The mistake that Scottish Widows made is serious and had real consequences for Mr R and 
his family. I can certainly understand his frustration, because he has the right to expect that 
the information he's given by a pension provider is accurate and reliable. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr R's position, I won't be upholding his complaint, as I'll explain.
In this case there is no call for me to determine whether Scottish Widows have done 
anything wrong that impacted on Mr R. This is already accepted, having been highlighted by 
Scottish Widows internal processes.
Scottish Widows may have corrected the mistake in the information they provided but I need 
to consider the impact it had on Mr R. There is no direct financial loss caused by Scottish 
Widows' mistake. Mr R's pension with them hasn't lost money. There's an indirect impact 
here though in the way their mistake affected the choices Mr R made.
Given the timing of Mr R's decision to increase his pension contributions I think it's likely it 
was done in response to his pension review done in 2016. Mr R explains that changes to his 
work based pension scheme meant he couldn't easily increase the amount he paid into his 
pension earlier than he did. Because the window to adjust his contributions to that scheme 
occurred annually, he also says he was unable to reduce the additional contributions when 
he was made aware of Scottish Widows error.
By increasing his pension contributions Mr R decided to spend less money in the present in 
order to secure a better retirement. I can see that he may not have felt compelled to increase 
his contributions by the amount he did if he'd known his overall fund was higher, but I can't 
say with certainty that he wouldn't have still made increases if he felt they were affordable. 
His choices show that he was prepared to respond positively to his pension review and was 
motivated to improve his pension fund for his future. Mr R hasn't suggested that the 
increases he made weren't affordable to him, albeit that he had to choose between things 
like the type of family holiday he could afford or whether he could afford to change his car. 
Whilst this must have been a difficult decision to make, he will benefit in the future by having 
increased his pension provision from the extra amount he contributed.
For the above reason I don't agree that it would be fair to ask Scottish Widows to reimburse 
Mr R for the increased pension contributions that he made. Whilst Mr R has explained he 
recognised the need to address his pension plans following his pension review he wasn't 
able to proactively do that until January 2019. Up until that point the impact on Mr R was due 
to the disappointment he felt at the values of his pension provision and the affect it would 
have on his potential retirement age. From May 2019 Mr R was aware that his pension 
provision was better than he'd been led to expect. But he the still had the frustration that for 
the remainder of that year, he was tied into a level of pension contributions giving him a 
lower net disposable income than he then could have had.
I don't underestimate the effect that Scottish Widows' mistake had on Mr R, but I believe that 
the compensation that he has already been paid was a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation to address the level of distress and inconvenience described. Whilst I 
understand Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I won't be asking Scottish Widows to 
do anything further to put this matter right. 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman