DRN-2579971
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store purchase in 1999. It looks like Mrs S was buying some electrical equipment at the 
time and she also took out PPI with the credit facility for the account.
Although this all took place at a well-known retailer at the time, the company now 
responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA France IARD 
throughout this final decision, for consistency.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs S disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
The central point of Mrs S complaint is that she never even knew she had the PPI. If this 
was right, then clearly that would be a reason for concern. However, whilst Im sure Mrs S 
honestly believes this now, I think its much more likely she just may not remember exactly 
how her purchase took place because its now well over 20 years ago. I say this because Im 
afraid theres reliable evidence to the contrary in my view. In short, I think she agreed to the 
cover being added although I accept she has no doubt since forgotten.
I was sent a copy of the actual credit agreement Mrs S used back in 1999 which had a 
specific section on it about PPI. She signed that section to say she wanted the PPI, as well 
as signing another part of the form to agree to the hire purchase element. I think shed have 
been equally able to not sign the PPI section because there was an option to do so. But by 
signing her name, I think this shows she wanted the cover. Her consent was properly 
obtained.
This was a non-advised sale. This means the business only needed only to provide enough 
clear information for Mrs S to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover and I do think 
she had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed decision. I see all 
the costs, for example, were outlined on the agreement and specifically, it said the PPI 
would be £1.76 per month. I also think its likely she would have been given information 
about the policy rules.
Looking at what Mrs S did for a living, I agree she may have had some sickness protection 
already with her job. But this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. She was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended to see in 
some of these policies. And if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have covered off the loan repayments. These benefits would have been in addition to any 
other means Mrs S had in place at the time.
So although I cant say why Mrs S decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
credit, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given an 
option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont have 
that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mrs S specifically selected the PPI 
and had access nearby to the information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules. I 
dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have changed how 
she acted. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs S, but Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint or require AXA France IARD 
to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman