DRN-3127247
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) registered a marker 
against her at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In December 2018, Mrs W opened an account with NatWest. In July 2019, she opened a 
savings account as well. Her savings account received fraudulent funds, which were passed 
between her two accounts and transferred out using her online banking.
In August 2019, NatWest received confirmation that the funds Mrs W had received were the 
proceeds from a scam. They closed her account and registered a marker against her at 
CIFAS for misusing her facility for fraud.
In August 2020  one year later  Mrs W complained. She said shed just found out about 
the CIFAS marker. She said thered never been any activity on her savings account and 
shed not taken part in any fraud.
Mrs W told us these accounts were meant as savings for her children. She said shed been 
preparing to pay money in, but then theyd been closed. She didnt recognise the payments 
involved and didnt make them. She hadnt given her online banking details to anyone and 
didnt know how someone couldve accessed it without her permission. She kept a record of 
her passwords on a secure app on her password-protected office computer. She only 
worked with a few people  who she did not suspect. There was someone shed been talking 
to online who its possible she gave her account details to in order to do a transfer  though 
she didnt think she had as shed been scammed before and was very cautious.
Later, Mrs W told us that her card had been stolen from her office as part of a break-in, but 
she no longer had the police report. She didnt keep a record of her PIN and hadnt told it to 
anyone. Her mobile phone was protected with a code. It was always with her and never went 
missing. Only she and her small children had access to it. She didnt think shed shared her 
online banking security details with anyone, but she had been speaking to someone online 
whod asked for help paying for vouchers and presents for their children. She broke things 
off and had deleted all their communication after things got hostile.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained it wasnt clear how someone couldve used Mrs Ws account without her consent, 
and there wasnt enough evidence that Mrs W had been scammed. They felt it was most 
likely that Mrs W had been complicit in the fraud.
Mrs W appealed. She explained that what happened had been out of her control, and that 
the CIFAS marker had had a very large negative impact on her life. The complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs W and NatWest a provisional decision on 22 September 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, NatWest were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mrs W had tried to do something wrong. They did need to have reasonable 
grounds to believe shed misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, 
and which had appropriate supporting evidence. Ive carefully considered everything that 
both sides have said and provided. Based on what Ive seen so far, I think NatWest did have 
sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered the possibility that Mrs Ws account was accessed without her 
permission by someone she didnt know.
The transfers out of Mrs Ws accounts were made using her mobile banking, with much of 
the activity involved coming from the same IP addresses that Mrs W had normally used in 
the past. But her mobile phone was always with her, had never gone missing, and was 
protected by a code that only she and her small children knew. So I cant see how an 
unknown thief couldve accessed Mrs Ws phone or got into her mobile banking to make 
these payments without her permission.
Further, on a number of occasions Mrs Ws card and PIN were used to log into her online 
banking and validate transfers of fraudulent funds. Mrs W says her card was stolen, but 
shes not been able to evidence this and didnt report it stolen to NatWest. More importantly, 
Mrs W says she didnt keep a record of her PIN and didnt share it with anyone. And 
according to NatWests records, her PIN was a random number generated by the bank, and 
not a number Mrs W chose herself  so it wouldnt have been something easy to guess such 
as her birthday. With that in mind, I cant see how someone Mrs W had never met could 
have known her PIN.
Lastly, the only record of Mrs Ws security details was on a secure application on her 
password-protected computer. So an unknown thief would not reasonably have been able to 
access that  and would not have been able to log in to her online banking.
So I dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party made the payments involved.
It is possible that someone known to Mrs W may have made the transactions without her 
permission. But I dont think thats likely or plausible either.
Mrs Ws children had access to her home and devices, but were far too young to have been 
able to carry out the fraud, so we can rule them out. Mrs Ws colleagues could potentially 
have gained access to her work computer where her password app was, but Mrs W has 
effectively ruled them out herself. And in any case, her colleagues would not have known her 
mobile phones code or her cards PIN, and would not have been able to access her mobile 
phone in the middle of the night when some of the transactions took place.There was someone Mrs W was talking to online who shes said she could potentially have 
given some account details to. But she also said she hadnt given her online banking 
security details out. And she said she never met this person in real life  they only spoke 
online or on the phone. In that case, it would not have been possible for them to have 
accessed her mobile phone or physical card. And they wouldnt have been active on the 
same IP addresses that Mrs W had been using herself. I also cant see how they could have 
known her PIN, or her mobile phones code. So it doesnt look possible that this person used 
Mrs Ws account without her permission.
Further, Mrs W says she deleted all of her correspondence with this person, so I cant see 
what they actually said or whether they were even relevant to the fraud. The only evidence 
Mrs W has been able to send us about them are some pictures of an unidentified person and 
a doctored copy of a fake passport. So I dont actually have any substantial evidence that 
this was a real person, nor that they were relevant to the fraud in any way. I certainly dont 
have anything to substantiate that they gained access to Mrs Ws account without her 
consent or convinced her to let them use the account without her knowing what was really 
going on.
The fraud took place over a number of days, so the person using Mrs Ws account does not 
appear to have been particularly worried that she would discover what was going on or stop 
them. This is only a minor point, but I mightve expected a thief to try to withdraw as much 
money as possible, as quickly as possible. More importantly, throughout the period Mrs W 
appears to have been frequently logging into her online banking through her usual IP 
addresses  so it looks like she was aware of what was going on at the time and knew about 
how her account was being used.
Its also worth noting that Mrs Ws savings account was not used for any other purpose than 
receiving and passing on fraudulent money. As far as I can see, she opened the account, left 
it unused, and then it was used for fraud. She doesnt seem to have tried to use it for 
anything else. Further, Mrs W didnt respond to NatWests correspondence about blocking 
and closing her account, nor object to it or question it for a whole year until she discovered 
the CIFAS marker. That doesnt make much sense if she was planning to use this account 
genuinely. So this does not support Mrs Ws assertion that this was a genuine account 
intended for genuine use. However, it does seem to fit with the possibility that she opened 
the account in order to help pass on fraudulent money.
There are a number of inconsistencies in Mrs Ws testimony. For example, she said her card 
was stolen  but she never reported it as stolen to NatWest, never replaced it, could not 
provide a police report for the break-in, and appears to have still been using this card to log 
in to her online banking from her normal IP addresses. She said she didnt recognise the 
transactions involved and thought there hadnt been any activity on her savings account, but 
 again  it looks like she was frequently checking her online banking and was aware of 
what was going on at the time. And she later said she may have even helped someone use 
her account. I appreciate that Mrs W struggles to remember things sometimes, but these 
kinds of inconsistencies make it difficult for me to support any of her versions of events.In summary, based on the evidence there isnt a plausible way that an unknown person 
couldve accessed Mrs Ws account, nor that someone known to Mrs W did so without her 
permission. Mrs W appears to have been aware of what was going on at the time and 
appears to have helped facilitate passing on the fraudulent funds. Her testimony has not 
been consistent, and Ive not seen anything to substantiate that she was misled into helping 
pass on the money. Ive also not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or 
unlikely that Mrs W was knowingly involved. That leaves only one likely possibility  that 
Mrs W knowingly and willingly helped receive and pass on fraudulent funds. In which case, 
I think its fair that NatWest registered the appropriate marker with CIFAS. This is a difficult 
message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mrs W to receive. But given 
the evidence I have so far, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 October 2021. Neither side added any new evidence or arguments, though Mrs W 
expressed her disappointment that the marker would not be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
I do realise that this will come as a great disappointment for Mrs W. But Im afraid that as 
I explained before: given the evidence at hand and the balance of probabilities, I cant 
reasonably reach any other conclusion than that Mrs W knowingly and willingly helped 
receive and pass on fraudulent funds. And so I think its fair that NatWest registered this 
marker with CIFAS.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman