DRN-1430883
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy about Zurich Assurance Limiteds (Zurich) decision to decline a claim 
under her late husbands term assurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M both had individual term assurance policies with Zurich. Payment for both 
policies was taken by direct debit from Mrs Ms account around 14th of the month. Mr Ms 
policy provided £40,000 of life cover at a cost of £100.09 per month.
Zurich didnt receive the March 2018 payments for Mr or Mrs Ms policies. It sent a reminder 
letter to Mr M on 21 March 2018. But no further payments were received. On 12 April 2018 
Mr M suffered a serious heart attack. Zurich wrote to Mr M on 10 May 2018 to say cover had 
ended. Mr M sadly passed away on 12 May 2018. 
Mrs M contacted Zurich on 14 May 2018 to tell them about her husbands passing and to 
discuss the policy. Zurich said it couldnt accept a claim because Mr M had no cover in place 
at the time of his death. And said it had sent a reminder letter to Mr M prior to his heart 
attack, but no further premiums were paid. 
Mrs M complained to Zurich. She said she didnt know about the failed payment and only 
knew the policy had ended when she got the letter on 10 May 2018. Zurich didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said it wasnt contractually obliged to tell customers when payments had failed. 
And because Mr M had no cover in place at the time of his death, it was unable to pay the 
claim. 
Mrs M didnt accept Zurichs response and so she referred her complaint to our service. She 
said she didnt receive the 21 March 2018 letter and so was unaware a payment had been 
missed. She wanted Zurich to pay the claim. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. She recognised 
that this was a very sad and unfortunate set of circumstances. But she felt Zurich had acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. 
Mrs M was very unhappy and understandably upset by the investigators opinion, and so her 
case has been passed to me to make a final decision. Mrs M maintained that Mr M never 
received the 21 March 2018 letter from Zurich about his missed payment. Nor did she 
receive a letter about her missed payment. She felt Zurich shouldve made further attempts 
to collect the payments.  Mrs M was also concerned that Zurich had retracted its offer to 
reinstate her husbands policy, and that it hadnt reinstated her policy as shed requested. 
 
 
 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mrs M as this has been a difficult time for her and her 
family. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reaching my outcome Ive only looked at whether Zurichs decision not to pay the claim 
made under the late Mr Ms policy was fair, and in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
based on the information available to it at the time. Mrs M has raised some concerns about 
Zurichs handling of her missed March 2018 payment and the reinstatement of her policy. I 
cant comment on those concerns as part of this decision. If Mrs M wants to raise a new 
complaint with us, then she can do so. But she should raise those concerns with Zurich first. 
Notification of missed payment
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, it says the following:
Making payments 
You must make all the payments that are due over the plans term 
If you dont make a payment when it is due, the plan will continue providing cover for 30 
days. At the end of the 30-day period the plan will end and you wont get any of your 
payments back 
Although your plan will have formally ended and you will therefore have no rights under the 
plan, you can ask us to reinstate your cover up to 60 days after your plan ended. To help us 
consider your request, well ask for details about your health and activities.  
Theres no specific obligation in the terms and conditions for Zurich to let its customers know 
payments have failed. And there is an onus on customers to check payments have been 
made, particularly if there is a potential that funds might not be available to cover the 
payment or if payments have been missed before. 
Zurichs told me it sends automatically generated letters to customers when payments are 
missed to let them know their cover is at risk. So, whilst not obliged to do so, Id expect 
Zurich to have done this when Mr M missed the March 2018 payment. Zurich says it sent a 
letter to Mr M on 21 March 2018. Mrs M told me Mr M never received that letter. 
I dont dispute what Mrs M says. But I must look at the evidence to see if the letter not being 
received was because Zurich did something wrong. 
I can see from the records that Zurich wrote to Mr M on 21 March 2018 to say cover would 
stop if payments werent made. Zurich cant provide a copy of that letter. Thats not unusual 
given it was computer generated. But Zurichs told me what the letter said and has confirmed it was sent to the same address as the letter Mrs M received dated 10 May 2018 
saying Mr Ms policy had ended. Ive also seen copies of Zurichs internal records for Mr M 
which shows the 21 March 2018 letter was generated. 
I accept its extremely unfortunate Mr M never received the 21 March 2018 letter. If he had, I 
think he wouldve taken steps to pay the missing premium and couldnt have foreseen the 
sad events that were to follow. But Ive not seen any evidence to show Zurich did anything 
wrong here. It followed its procedures in letting Mr M know his cover was at risk. But Mr M 
didnt have cover in place at the time of his death  a requirement of the policy for a claim to 
paid. So, I think Zurich acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy by 
declining Mrs Ms claim. 
Attempts to collect payment 
Mrs M is concerned that Zurich didnt try to collect payment again after the first attempt 
failed. And has provided us with evidence she says shows if Zurich had tried to collect 
payment again, there was enough money in her account. 
I can see that in October 2017 Mrs M asked Zurich to change the date the premiums were 
collected for her and her husbands policies from the 1st to the 14th of the month. This was 
actioned and Zurich has confirmed to me that payments were initiated on the 9th of the 
month, to be taken on 14th of the month. 
Zurich has explained that when payments are collected on the 1st of the month, failed 
payments can be re-requested at the mid month collection point. But Zurich says this isnt 
possible when a payment date is set for the middle of the month. This is a business decision 
Zurich is entitled to make. But given the impact changing the collection day has on missed 
payments, I wanted to make sure Mrs M was aware of this when she changed the collection 
day to the 14th of the month. Zurich has provided me with a letter sent to Mrs M on 21 
October 2017. In that letter it tells her that by changing the payment collection date to the 
middle of the month, this could impact on any problems collecting payments. 
Whilst the 21 October 2017 letter doesnt categorically say a failed payment on 14th of the 
month means no further attempts to collect payment will be made, I think Zurich did alert
Mrs M to the fact there would be an impact on how Zurich dealt with failed payments. So, 
whilst this is a very unfortunate situation, I dont think Zurich acted unfairly by not attempting 
to collect the payment again. 
Reinstating of Mr Ms policy 
Because the 14 March 2018 payment failed, Mr Ms cover remained in place for 30 days and 
then lapsed. In Zurichs letter of 10 May 2018, it said it could reinstate the policy within 60 
days of the first missed payment.  
Mrs M is concerned that Zurich retracted its offer to reinstate Mr Ms cover. I should explain 
that any reinstatement of cover wouldve been a matter for Zurich to consider, and 
dependant on Mr Ms health at the time, and the payment of any outstanding premiums. 
Given Mr Ms health had deteriorated by the time the policy lapsed, I cant say with any 
degree of certainty that had he asked Zurich to reinstate it, this wouldve been agreed. The 
main point here is that Mr M didnt have cover in place at the time of his death. And thats 
why Zurich was unfortunately unable to pay the claim. 
This has been a very difficult case to decide, in part because of Mrs Ms current 
circumstances, but also because Im sure Mr and Mrs M never intended for Mr Ms cover to 
lapse. This, coupled with the sudden and unexpected passing of Mr M, has made this a very upsetting situation for Mrs M. But taking everything into account, I cant say Zurich acted 
unfairly. It followed its procedures in notifying Mr M of the missed payment, and acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions when cancelling the policy and declining 
Mrs Ms claim. So, I cant ask Zurich to pay the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman