DRN-3084933
The complaint
Mr A complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) have unfairly closed his bank account, not permitted 
him to use the account switching facility, causing him trouble and upset. 
What happened
In November 2019, TSB reviewed Mr As account. Later Mr A was told by TSB it was closing 
his account and gave him two months notice. Mr A was able to get money from his account 
but had to do so by going into branch. This meant he was restricted in how he could use his 
account. 
In February 2020, Mr As account was closed. 
Mr A says he was told to get a new account with another bank but was prevented by TSB 
from using the switch facility. That is where things like direct debits, balances and standing 
orders are automatically transferred between two banks. Mr A also says he was treated 
rudely by a branch staff member. 
Mr A wants to know why TSB took the action it did. 
Mr A complained to TSB. Unhappy with what it said he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter, and in summary they found: 
- As a regulated business, TSB has ongoing regulatory obligations to follow. This may 
mean it chooses to review its customers banking activities  which can lead it to 
place restrictions on accounts whilst doing so. 
- TSB isnt obligated to give its reasons for carrying out a review on Mr As account 
- TSB has acted within the terms of the account in both restricting and then closing the 
account 
- Banks arent under any obligation to allow account switches to other providers to go 
through - it is something they do at their commercial discretion. 
Unhappy with what our investigator said Mr A has asked for an Ombudsman to decide the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which TSB and Mr A had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by TSB, Im satisfied it was entitled to restrict 
and then close the account in the way that it has done. TSB had explained to Mr A its
actions and in doing so signposted him to its terms and conditions that it was exercising this 
action under.
Mr A wants to know why TSB acted in this way. TSB was entitled to close the account in the 
way that it has done and its under no legal obligation, that Im aware of, which requires it to 
give the exact basis for its actions.
Mr A says this matter has caused him substantive trouble and upset and he should be 
compensated for this. I empathise with Mr A and how TSBs actions would have impacted 
upon him. But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis 
on which I might make an award against TSB given I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when it closed Mr As account.
Mr A has complained about how he was treated in branch. Mr A would have undoubtedly 
been upset and frustrated with what was happening and likely had difficult conversations 
with TSBs staff members because of it. This is understandable. But I havent seen anything 
conclusive to show he was mistreated by TSB. 
Lastly, Mr A isnt happy the account switch facility was declined to him by TSB. This is 
something two banks do between themselves to make the transfer of a bank account easy 
for customers. In my experience when an account is being restricted and closed in this way, 
it can affect the ability of a bank to carry out an account switch. 
But in any case, a switch is there for convenience and I havent seen anything that shows 
Mr A was prevented unfairly in transferring his account  albeit that it put more onus on him 
to manually move over standing orders and direct debits. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr As bank statements and cant see any standing orders or direct 
debits. So I dont think the inability to use the switch facility would have caused him much 
trouble in any case. 
So, in conclusion, Im satisfied TSB hasnt acted unfairly in closing Mr As account - nor
am I going to ask TSB to compensate Mr A for any trouble and upset this matter caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
Ketan Nagla  
Ombudsman
