DRN-3017677
The complaint
Mr T complains about the fees that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential), 
his personal pension provider, charged.
What happened
Mr T has a personal pension with Prudential. This was originally arranged and managed by 
a financial adviser unconnected to Prudential. 
Mr T said that he had paid fees out of his personal pension fund to his financial adviser. But 
in 2018, he decided to remove his adviser as his servicing agent on the pension plan. Mr T 
said he called Prudential to question the fees his annual statements showed had been taken 
from his pension plan. He said that Prudential had told him that they didnt charge a 
management free. He said he thought that no further fees would be taken from his plan. He 
said this was because his annual statements had only ever shown his adviser fees, and no 
other charges. 
Mr T said that when he received his 2020 annual statement, it showed that Prudential was 
taking an Annual Management Charge (AMC) from his pension plan. So he said he called 
Prudential to query the fees, and to ask if hed been charged them every year. He said they 
confirmed that he had. 
Mr T said he further questioned why the AMC hadnt been shown on previous annual 
statements alongside his adviser charges. He said Prudential had told him that the 
statements had provided a link which, if followed, gave a breakdown of the charges that had 
been taken. 
Mr T complained to Prudential on 24 November 2020. He was unhappy that Prudential were 
taking fees from his personal pension. He said hed understood that all fees had been 
cancelled when hed arranged for his adviser to be removed as his servicing agent in 2018. 
And that Prudential had told him they didnt charge any fees. He said Prudential hadnt been 
transparent about the fees they charged on the annual statements. 
Prudential issued their first final response to the complaint on 22 December 2020. They 
didnt uphold it. They said that when the personal pension had first been set up, Mr Ts 
adviser shouldve gone through a due diligence process which included confirmation of any 
initial and ongoing costs which would be deducted. They explained why they took fees 
through the AMC. They said this was for administering the policy and investing the funds on 
Mr Ts behalf. 
Prudential said they hadnt been able to trace any telephone call or communication from Mr 
T around the time the adviser charges had been cancelled. They evidenced that the 
instruction to cancel the adviser charges had come directly from the adviser. They said that 
for this reason they couldnt uphold Mr Ts complaint that theyd told him they took no fees of 
any kind from his pension. They also said that when their annual statements hadnt shown 
the charges theyd taken from Mr Ts pension, theyd provided a link where details of the 
charges taken were available. Prudential acknowledged that those annual statements may 
not have been as transparent as Mr T wouldve liked. But said that they had improved them 
now. And that they had met the regulatory requirements of the time.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service. And replied to Prudential on 29 December 2020. 
He said that his adviser had written to Prudential to ask to be removed as his servicing agent 
on 21 November 2018. But that statements showed that hed paid no adviser charges since 
28 April 2017. He felt that, despite Prudential being unable to find a record of the call hed 
had with them, this showed that hed cancelled his adviser charges long before theyd said 
he had. 
I understand that Mr T called Prudential on 12 January 2021 to add to his complaint.
Prudential issued a second final response letter on 23 February 2021. They said theyd 
considered the new information Mr T had provided. And that they would now uphold the 
complaint. Prudential noted that Mr T had raised additional concerns about Prudential not 
calling him back when theyd promised to. And that hed faced long queues when hed tried 
to call them. They apologised for the poor level of service Mr T had recently received. And 
that he was unhappy with their previous response to his complaint. 
Prudential said they understood why Mr T had been unhappy with their comments about 
adviser charges. They said theyd received a letter dated 5 May 2017 from his financial 
adviser which told them that the ongoing adviser charge should be removed with immediate 
effect. They said this meant that the last payment made to Mr Ts financial adviser was on 28 
April 2017. Prudential apologised for incorrectly telling him that the adviser charges were 
cancelled following a letter dated 21 November 2018. They said they did receive a letter 
from Mr Ts adviser with that date, but theyd already cancelled the adviser charges by then. 
Prudential repeated that they had no record of a phone call from him in which hed cancelled 
the adviser charges. And therefore they maintained that they couldnt find any evidence that 
theyd told Mr T that no fees applied to his policy.
Prudential said that theyd listened to all of the calls between them and Mr T. They 
acknowledged that Mr T had been promised two separate call backs during a call on 12 
January 2021. But that the call backs had never happened. They apologised for not calling 
Mr T back. They also acknowledged that Mr T had told them on 18 January 2021 that hed 
been in a queue for 40 minutes before theyd answered his call. They explained why the 
service had fallen short of their normal expectations. And apologised for the waiting time Mr 
T had experienced. They offered £300 compensation for the inconvenience theyd caused 
Mr T.
Mr T told this service that he felt Prudentials charges had been hidden. He wanted to be 
compensated for the charges that had been taken. He said that if hed have known he was
paying the AMC he wouldve taken his pension earlier. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She considered the regulatory 
requirements that had been in place when each of the annual statements had been issued. 
And noted that it wasnt until 2018 that Prudentials regulator required them to provide a 
clear breakdown of costs on statements. She felt Prudential had provided this clear 
breakdown on the 2019 and 2020 statements theyd sent Mr T. And noted that although 
earlier statements hadnt given a clear breakdown of the AMC, they had provided a link 
where the charges could be found. Overall, our investigator was satisfied that Prudential had 
fairly met the regulatory requirements. Our investigator said that she hadnt seen any evidence of the call during which Mr T said 
Prudential had told him there would be no fees applied to his account once hed removed the 
ongoing adviser service. She felt that the cancellation of the service charge had been carried 
out in writing by the adviser. So she didnt feel she could further consider this part of Mr Ts 
complaint. 
Mr T felt it was strange that there was no record of the call in which he said Prudential had 
told him they didnt charge him any fees. 
Our adviser asked Prudential for further information. They confirmed that theyd removed the 
ongoing adviser charge from May 2017, after receiving a letter dated 5 May 2017 from Mr 
Ts adviser. They also said that theyd written to Mr T on 18 May 2017 to confirm that the 
adviser charges had been stopped. Mr T said that he didnt receive this letter. Prudential 
also evidenced that the adviser had sent a second letter, dated 21 November 2018, in which 
he asked them to remove him as the servicing agent on Mr Ts plan record. 
Having reviewed the additional information, our adviser felt that the cancellation of the 
ongoing advice charge had been carried out in writing. Therefore she still felt there was no 
evidence that Prudential had told Mr T that they didnt charge him anything during a phone 
call. And didnt consider that his complaint should be upheld. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Prudentials 
annual statements met the regulatory requirements required. Ive also seen no evidence that 
Prudential told Mr T during a call that they didnt charge him any fees. Ill explain the reasons 
for my decision. 
Mr Ts position is that Prudentials fees werent transparent until they amended their annual 
statements. And that theyd told him during a call after hed removed his financial adviser 
from his account that they were charging him no fees.
Prudentials position is that it was Mr Ts financial advisers responsibility to confirm the fees 
that would be deducted when the personal pension had first been set up. They said theyd 
found no evidence of a phone call during which theyd told Mr T he was paying them no fees. 
Prudential also said that when their annual statements hadnt shown the charges theyd 
taken from Mr Ts pension, as they now did, theyd provided a link where details of the 
charges taken were available. They said theyd met the regulatory requirements at all times.
Im unable to fully assess whether Mr Ts IFA made him aware of the fees Prudential would 
charge him. But Ive looked at the application from for the personal pension which Mr T 
signed on 24 October 2014. This stated on the second page: Please read the key features 
document ..
The key features document covered SIPP charges in detail on page 15.
Although I cant know for certain whether or not Mr T read the key features document, I 
consider that on balance of probability he wouldve been given the document when the 
policy was set up. So Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Mr T did have access to the full details of charges at the time the policy was set up. However, Ive got no evidence 
that his financial adviser guided him through the charges. So Ive gone on to consider 
whether the charging information Prudential provided to Mr T met the regulatory 
requirements for disclosure of charges.
As our investigator noted, its important to consider the rules for disclosure of charges that 
were in place during the period being complained about. 
I understand that Mr T first took out his pension policy in late 2014. At this time, pension 
providers werent required to clearly set out any costs and charges associated with investing 
on annual statements. 
However, new regulation took effect in the UK in 2018. This required any costs and charges 
associated with investing to be clearly set out. This led regulators to introduce new 
requirements which meant that financial businesses had to provide a clearer breakdown of 
costs on annual statements. This prompted Prudential to include a breakdown of the 
charges, including their AMC, on their annual statements from this point onwards.
Mr T stopped paying ongoing charges to his financial adviser in May 2017. And his adviser 
was removed as his servicing agent on the personal pension in November 2018. Mr T said 
after his adviser had been removed, he called Prudential to ask them if they would be 
charging him any fees. 
Ive been unable to find any evidence of this call. This doesnt mean I doubt Mr Ts 
testimony. But without a recording of the call, or any other reference to it, Im unable to fairly 
conclude that Prudential told Mr T that they wouldnt be charging him any fees after his 
servicing agent had been removed from his account. 
Although Prudential was required to clearly disclose costs after the 2018 requirements were 
introduced, those changes werent retrospective. So Prudential werent required to revisit 
previous annual statements to ensure they clearly disclosed the fees that had been charged 
over that time. 
Bearing in mind the requirements Ive explained above, I reviewed Mr Ts annual statements 
from 2016 to 2020. 
The 2016, 2017 and 2018 annual statements dont directly disclose the AMC charged over 
the year covered by the statement. They do show the adviser charges that were paid. The 
2018 statement, which covers the period up to 19 October 2018, shows that no adviser 
charges were made, as ongoing adviser fees had stopped with effect from May 2017. These 
statements do provide links so that further information can be accessed. If the links are 
followed, it is possible to confirm the AMC payable on the pension policy. I acknowledge that 
this is not as transparent as the later statements, but consider that these statements did 
meet the requirements of the time. 
The 2019 and 2020 annual statement provide an explanation of the AMC and further 
charges, and state the amount that had been charged. This is obviously much more 
transparent that the previous statements. 
Although I acknowledge that the 2019 and 2020 statements are considerably clearer than 
the earlier statements on the charges Prudential were taking from Mr Ts pension, Im 
satisfied that all of the statements met the regulatory requirements on the disclosure of 
charges relevant at the time they were issued. As the evidence shows that Prudential 
provided the required information on charges on all of the annual statements, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to uphold this complaint.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman