DRN-2404951
The complaint
Miss M ibelieves that Lendable Ltd gave her a loan irresponsibly because she couldnt afford 
the repayments
What happened
Miss M took out a loan with Lendable Ltd in December 2018. The loan was taken over a 
term of 48 months and had a monthly repayment of around £105.
In October 2019, Miss M raised a complaint with Lendable Ltd in which she stated that the 
loan had been unaffordable for her at the time that she had applied for it, and that this meant 
that Lendable Ltd had lent irresponsibly to her.
Lendable Ltd looked into Miss Ms complaint. They said that there was nothing on Miss Ms 
credit file at the time of the loan application, or in the other checks and information which 
they assessed, to indicate that the loan wouldnt be affordable for Miss M at the time at 
which she applied for it. They also noted that Miss M had made all the payments due on the 
loan on time and without incident prior to her making the complaint. So Lendable Ltd didnt 
uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M wasnt happy with the response from Lendable Ltd and so she referred the complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators looked at the complaint, but they agreed that the 
loan had been affordable to Miss M when she had applied for it, and so they didnt uphold 
the complaint either.
Miss M remained dissatisfied and so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Miss M thinks that this borrowing from Lendable Ltd is an example of 
irresponsible lending. However, having looked at all the evidence from both sides, I think 
Lendable Ltd did enough to ensure that they were lending responsibly and affordably here.
It's for a business to decide whether it will lend to someone and, if so, how much and on 
what terms. What we'd expect is that a lender carries out reasonable and proportionate 
checks as to the affordability of any lending. 
I think that Lendable Ltd has done that here. They took details of Miss M's income. They 
also checked her credit file, alongside completing other internal checks. All of this showed 
Lendable Ltd that the loan was affordable to Miss M at that time.
I understand that Miss M doesnt feel that the checks undertaken by Lendable Ltd went far 
enough. As mentioned above, what we would expect is that the checks that a lender 
undertakes are reasonable and proportionate in relation to (amongst other things) the 
amount of money being borrowed. So, given the relatively small monthly repayment amount 
of the loan (approximately £105) when considered against Miss Ms stated monthly income 
(approximately £3,300) I think that the checks that Lendable Ltd did here were proportionate.
Miss M has provided this service with details of her income and expenditure at the time that 
the loan was applied for, and I recognise that she considers that this demonstrates that the 
loan wasnt affordable for her. But, as explained above, I dont think that Lendable Ltd were 
obliged to gather and consider that information as part of their assessment of whether the 
loan was affordable for Miss M, because to do so would have been disproportionate in 
relation to the amount of money being borrowed. 
I also consider it notable that, while Miss M did have existing credit at the time of the loan 
application, her credit file was in good order, with no missed or late payments on her existing 
credit which might indicate that she was struggling financially at that time. Furthermore, the 
fact that the loan repayments on the loan in question were met without incident up until the 
point of the complaint is also indicative that the loan was initially affordable to Miss M.
Miss M has advised that she had a mortgage at the time of the loan application which wasnt 
taken into account by Lendable Ltd, but this mortgage related to an address which was 
different from the address Miss M gave to Lendable Ltd as her home address, and so it 
didnt show up in the searches that Lendable Ltd undertook based on Miss Ms home 
address. Given that Miss M did not specifically disclose the existence of this mortgage to 
Lendable Ltd at the time she made the application its understandable that it wasnt picked 
up by Lendable Ltds checks. So, I cant fairly expect Lendable Ltd to have widened the 
parameters of their checks here, and it follows that I dont consider that Lendable Ltd have 
made any form of an error of omission in this regard.
Considering the above, its difficult for me to conclude that Lendable Ltd made an 
inappropriate assessment of Miss Ms circumstances at the time that she took out the loan, 
based on the information they had available to them. When Miss M initially made her 
complaint to Lendable Ltd, she advised that she had lost her job and that losing her job had 
contributed to her not being able to meet the repayments. I can sympathise with Miss M in 
this regard. However, this change in Miss Ms circumstances could not have been foreseen 
by Lendable Ltd, who had to base their assessment of the affordability of the loan on Miss 
Ms circumstances at the time at which she applied for the loan.
In addition, Miss M also informed Lendable Ltd during the complaint process that her current 
financial struggles had had an impact on her mental health. I realise the pressure that 
financial issues can cause, and again I sympathise with Miss M in this regard, but the 
question I have to ask is whether Lendable Ltd should have taken this factor into account at 
the time that the loan was applied for. In this instance, it doesnt appear that Miss M 
disclosed any concerns about her mental health to Lendable Ltd at the time of the loan 
application, and so I cant fairly say that Lendable Ltd should have considered the impact of 
this on her ability to meet the repayment as a factor during the loan application process.
And so, considering all of the above, its difficult for me to say that Lendable Ltd acted 
unfairly or inappropriately in lending to Miss M here. At the time that the loan was taken out, 
Lendable Ltd reviewed Miss Ms credit file and undertook proportionate checks to ensure 
that the loan was affordable to her, and based on the information available to them at that 
time it seems reasonable that they would conclude that the loan would be affordable to Miss 
M.
What our service would expect is that, on learning of the difficulties that Miss M was facing, 
Lendable Ltd would treat Miss M sympathetically and allow Miss M some space to allow her the opportunity to improve her position, and I can see that Lendable Ltd have done that here. 
For instance, I note that Lendable Ltd reduced the monthly repayments to £1 for a period of 
time and have attempted to negotiate an affordable payment plan with Miss M. 
I understand that this wont be the response that Miss M was hoping for, but I cant fairly say 
that Lendable Ltd have acted inappropriately here, and so I wont be upholding this 
complaint or asking Lendable Ltd to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman