DRN-4221533
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled 
a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A had a motor insurance policy with Advantage. In October 2022 Mrs As car was 
damaged and she reported a claim to Advantage on 22 October. When Mrs A made her 
claim, she was asked whether she wanted a courtesy car, which she was entitled to under 
her policy. She said she didnt need one.
Her car had been damaged in a way that meant the locks needed to be changed. 
Advantage had this work done by one of its approved repairers. Whilst the car was at the 
repairer, Mrs A told Advantage she now needed a courtesy car, but it couldnt supply one.
Mrs A had to chase the repairs up with both Advantage and its repairer because they didnt 
keep her up to date. 
Because her car was waiting for parts to arrive and Mrs A didnt have a courtesy car, she 
used public transport extensively which she says was expensive and stressful. 
She complained to Advantage. It paid £60 for her costs. The car was returned to her on 4 
January 2023 but the locks didnt work properly. Advantage sent a locksmith who couldnt fix 
them, so her car was taken to another repairer in February to finally fix them.
Advantage paid Mrs A a total of £215, made up of £140 compensation and £75 for her travel 
costs.
Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about the 
poor communication with her and the extra costs and stress shes had from not having a 
courtesy car. She doesnt have receipts for the extra costs shes had as there have been so 
many. 
Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. She said she thought Advantage should have 
supplied Mrs A with a courtesy car, so she thought Advantage should pay for Mrs As loss of 
use of her car from 5 November to 4 January at £10 per day, less the £75 it had already paid 
her for transport costs, which she calculated at £515.
Advantage replied to the view and asked for extensions to our deadline. But it then didnt 
respond. Mrs A accepted it. Because Advantage didnt respond, this complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my understanding from the file that the repairs to Mrs As car arent yet complete. Shes 
asked this service to consider this as part of her complaint against Advantage. But I can only 
consider issues that shes raised with Advantage and that its provided her with its final 
response. 
So Im not going to be able to respond to that part of her complaint, and she should raise it 
as a new complaint with Advantage assuming she is unhappy with how it has continued to 
handle her claim. Shes then free to bring her complaint to this service if she remains 
unhappy.
Having read the file, Im upholding Mrs As complaint.
I can see that when Mrs A reported the claim, she didnt think she needed a courtesy car. 
About 12 days later, she realised that she did, and she asked Advantage for one. 
When she initially didnt ask for a courtesy car, Advantage said this meant her car was sent 
to one of Advantages repairers who perhaps had space to do the work, but couldnt provide 
the courtesy car facility. In this way, perhaps it would mean that the work would get done 
faster but with some inconvenience to Mrs A.
Then she asked Advantage for a courtesy car, which was part of the cover under her policy. 
Ive looked at the policy wording and I cant see that asking for a courtesy car later isnt 
allowed. 
I can appreciate its probably not convenient for Advantage to have to work out how to 
supply a car during the repair process, but I also think its fair to say that it must have 
happened in the past and I think its reasonable for Advantage to have a process and be 
able to provide Mrs A with the solution that she had paid for.
During this time, Mrs A was having to chase Advantage and its repairer for updates. I can 
see there were delays awaiting parts too which Advantage has said is part of ongoing global 
supply issues. Advantage has also said it couldnt supply a courtesy car due to a shortage of 
vehicles. It says both issues mean the problem was out of its hands.
But it did say its claims service hadnt been good enough and it paid £140 compensation in 
total for it, plus £75 in total for Mrs As travel costs. 
Ive thought about Mrs As situation. Its this services guideline that when a customer is 
entitled to a courtesy car, as in this case, and Advantage hasnt been able to supply one, a 
fixed cost of £10 per day should be paid for the customers loss of use. I can see Advantage 
has also paid some of Mrs As travel costs, so I think its reasonable those are deducted. 
And I think its fair to say Mrs A was inconvenienced from 5 November to 4 January. I 
understand Mrs A has accepted £515 as the total for her loss of use of a car, so that will 
stand.
Ive also thought about Advantages compensation for its service during the claim. I can see 
Mrs As evidence says she has been suffering ongoing stress from its poor communication, 
not providing her with updates and its repairers unhelpful attitude towards her. Taking 
everything into account, I think Advantages earlier payment totalling £140 is fair and 
reasonable, and in line with this services guidelines.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs A:
An additional £515 for loss of use of her car.
£140 for her distress and inconvenience. Its my understanding that this amount has 
already been paid.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman