DRN-3816710
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss R opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in 2010. At that point her credit limit 
was £1,570. It was increased once in December 2016 by £380 to £1,950.
Miss R says that she couldnt afford the credit limit increase in 2016 and that she ended up 
in serious debt as a result. She says she was borrowing from elsewhere to meet her 
repayments.  Miss R says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her because she had a 
very low income. Miss R also says that Studio Retail didnt deal with her fairly when she got 
into financial trouble.
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it increased Miss Rs credit limit and 
that it acted appropriately and fairly.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. They thought that when 
Studio Retail increased Miss Rs credit limit in December 2016 that it should have found out 
more about Miss Rs financial circumstances and that if it had, it would have seen the 
increased credit was unmanageable for Miss R. But as Miss R never used that additional 
credit there was no compensation owed.
Miss R did not agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Rs complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Miss Rs income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
I can only consider what happened when Miss Rs credit limit was increased in December 
2016. Studio Retail has provided a copy of the records it had about Miss Rs credit 
management at that point. I can see from this that Miss R was using relatively little of her 
existing credit limit for many months before the increase. At most, she used 51% of the limit. 
She was making regular payments generally above the minimum required. And her credit 
scoring in relation to external accounts was unremarkable. 
However, I can see that Miss R did miss a few payments in the preceding 17 months. And 
she told Studio Retail in April 2016 that she had been diagnosed with a serious illness. As a 
result of this Studio Retail agreed a payment plan for Miss R which continued until 
November 2016 when Miss R told Studio Retail that her treatment had finished and she was 
back in full time employment.
I think these circumstances were enough to cause Studio Retail to seek further information 
about Miss Rs financial situation before it approved a credit increase. 
Miss R provided her bank statements for the three months before the credit limit increase 
and I can see that while she appeared to be in credit she was utilising payday loans. These 
are an expensive form of credit and should have alerted Studio Retail to the possibility she 
could not manage any more credit. I think if Studio Retail had acted fairly and appropriately 
with this information that it shouldnt have increased Miss Rs credit limit. 
However, Miss Rs shopping account balance never exceeded her original credit limit of 
£1,570. This means that although I agree Studio Retail shouldnt have increased her credit 
limit when it did, Miss R wasnt worse off than she would have been if her credit limit had 
remained the same. When this service directs compensation, the aim is to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been (or as closely as it is possible to do) if the matter 
complained about hadnt happened. This means that although I agree with Miss R in relation 
to her complaint I dont think any compensation is due. In circumstances where the 
increased credit limit is utilised we would usually direct that any interest paid, or fees 
incurred, on balances above the original limit are refunded with interest. But in Miss Rs case 
that amount is zero. And we would usually direct that any adverse information placed on the 
consumers credit file as a result of the increase is removed. Again, in Miss Rs case, there 
was no adverse information placed as a result of the increase.
Miss R has also complained about the way her account was managed when she did get into 
difficulty. Studio Retail has provided copies of the notes it made when Miss R made contact. 
It initially agreed a payment plan but when Miss R contacted it in August 2018 to say she 
was back on track with her financial matters she was asked to provide her income and 
expenditure details. She didnt send these, and she didnt contact Studio Retail again. Studio 
Retail made several attempts to contact Miss R by phone to no avail. Eventually, as Miss R 
was paying less than the minimum amount on her account to ensure she paid it off in a 
reasonable amount of time, Studio Retail changed her payment plan and sold her debt. 
Miss R says that she didnt receive anything from Studio Retail. I cant know for sure whether 
that was the case, but on the balance of probabilities I am satisfied Studio Retails 
contemporaneous notes are an accurate reflection of what happened. And I am satisfied that 
Miss R didnt make further contact in that time and did not provide the income and 
expenditure details requested. So, I dont think Studio Retail did anything wrong in relation to 
these matters. 
My final decision
I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss R but while I do consider Studio Retail 
Limited acted unfairly when it increased Miss Rs credit limit in December 2016, Miss R did 
not lose out as a result and so no compensation is due. And I think Studio Retail acted fairly 
in the way it managed Miss Rs outstanding balance when she got into financial difficulty. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman