DRN-2804193
The complaint
Mr A complains about Nationwide Building Societys decision to close his accounts.
What happened
Mr A had a number of accounts with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide), including a 
joint account which was held with a relative. In January 2021, Mr A contacted Nationwide 
about problems he was experiencing when trying to log into his mobile banking app. 
Nationwide raised a complaint but, in the meantime, Mr A realised there was a fault with his 
phone case, which meant the wrong number was being entered when he tried to enter his 
password. When the complaints team contacted Mr A, he explained this and asked for the 
complaint to be closed.
Shortly afterwards, Nationwide decided to close Mr As accounts, including the joint account. 
This was on the basis that its relationship with Mr A had broken down irretrievably. It wrote to 
him on 4 February 2021 and told him the accounts would close on 5 April 2021. Mr A was 
unhappy about this and complained to Nationwide. Nationwide said it was entitled to close 
the accounts under its terms and conditions. It referred to the number of previous complaints 
Mr A had made, saying that he was clearly extremely disillusioned with Nationwide. It also 
said that Mr A had spoken to its staff in an unpleasant way which would not be tolerated.
Later on, Nationwide agreed to delay the account closure until 5 May 2021. But Mr A 
remained unhappy with the situation and brought his complaint to this service. He says the 
situation has caused him a great deal of upset. Hes explained that he suffers from mental 
health issues and says that Nationwide hasnt made reasonable adjustments for him and 
has discriminated against him. He says that the issue with his phone case was a genuine 
mistake and he didnt realise at the time that it shouldnt have been logged as a complaint.  
He says that Nationwide is treating him unfairly because he made that complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly here and didnt ask it to do 
anything. But Mr A was disappointed with our investigators view and asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As accounts allow Nationwide to close them by giving him at 
least two months notice. Nationwides letter to Mr A of 4 February 2021 told him of its 
decision to close his accounts. The letter gave Mr A 60 days notice and said that the 
accounts would be closed on 5 April 2021. This is line with the terms and conditions. I 
understand that Nationwide later agreed to delay the account closure until 5 May 2021 in 
light of his circumstances. I think that was a fair approach.
Nationwides letter to Mr A said that it felt its relationship with him had broken down 
irretrievably. Thats why it had decided to close his accounts. It said this was on the basis 
that Mr A was clearly unhappy with many elements of the service Nationwide was providing. 
The terms and conditions of the accounts dont limit the circumstances in which Nationwide 
can close a customers account. So it can close the account for any reason as long as it 
gives enough notice. Looking at the number and nature of Mr As complaints to Nationwide, I 
think it was reasonable for it to conclude that he was unhappy with the service and that the 
relationship was irretrievably broken down. So I dont think Nationwides decision to close 
the accounts was unreasonable here.
Under the terms and conditions, there are some specific circumstances in which Nationwide 
can close a customers account immediately. These include where the customer behaves in 
a threatening or abusive way towards its staff. Nationwide has said that the way Mr A spoke 
to members of staff hasnt always been pleasant. It says this is another reason why it 
decided to close his accounts. Mr A has explained that his health conditions can affect his 
behaviour. This is something hes discussed with Nationwide in the past. I note that, in 2020, 
Nationwide raised concerns with Mr A about the way he was speaking to staff and 
suggested other ways of making contact, such as through webchat. I can understand that Mr 
A didnt want to communicate with Nationwide through those channels. But Im satisfied that 
Nationwide tried to offer him different options and tried to work with him to improve the 
relationship. I think that was fair. Following that, and based on the information Ive seen, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to decide to bring the relationship to an end. It 
did so by giving Mr A notice, rather than closing the accounts with immediate effect. I think 
that was a fair approach here.
Mr A says that Nationwide closed his accounts because of the complaint he made in 
January 2021 about not being able to log into the app. I dont find that to be the case. 
Nationwide says it carried out an account review based on the number of complaints Mr A 
had made. It acknowledges that Mr A has the right to complain regardless of how many 
complaints hes made previously. But it says it felt there had been a breakdown in the 
relationship and that Mr A was clearly unhappy with the service it was providing. I think thats 
a reasonable conclusion for Nationwide to have reached. The information Ive seen confirms 
that Nationwide had discussed concerns about the banking relationship with Mr A previously 
and that hed said he would take his business elsewhere.
Mr A is unhappy that the joint account has been closed, even though the relative he held it 
with had nothing to do with the difficulties between Mr A and Nationwide. I havent seen any 
evidence that Nationwide wrote to Mr As relative to inform them that the joint account would 
be closed. But Nationwide says that Mr A didnt contact it to discuss the joint account. It says 
that, if he had, it could have looked at removing Mr A from the account and keeping it open 
in his relatives sole name. I havent seen any evidence of Mr A raising the issue of the joint 
account. But I have seen evidence that Mr A closed the joint account himself in March 2021. 
Nationwide wouldnt have closed it until May 2021. As Mr A closed the account himself, 
Nationwide didnt have the opportunity to do anything differently with that account. So I dont 
find that Nationwide acted unfairly in this respect. 
For the reasons above, I think Nationwides decision to close Mr As accounts was 
reasonable and I think it carried out its decision fairly. Mr A has raised concerns about 
Nationwides approach and says it didnt make reasonable adjustments for him. I can 
understand why hes concerned about this. But its not the role of this service to say whether 
a business has breached equalities legislation  thats a matter for the courts. Our role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. I realise Mr A 
feels very strongly about the situation and Im sorry to disappoint him. But, having 
considered the circumstances here, I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably or treated 
him unfairly. So Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decisionFor the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman