DRN-1159498
The complaint
Mr B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC declined his application for a loan.
What happened
Last summer, Mr B applied for a loan with Tesco. Two days after making his application, he 
called Tesco to find out the outcome. During this call Mr B was told his application had been 
declined to the level of borrowing he had. Mr B was unhappy with this outcome and asked 
for his application to be reassessed. Mr B was told he'd need to do this in writing.
After checking his credit file, Mr B felt his level of borrowing was inflated by a finance 
agreement for his car. So he wrote to Tesco and explained he didn't think the amount owed 
under the finance agreement should be considered. That was because he'd made all of his 
contractual payments and the agreement was due to end the following month as his car 
would be collected and clear the outstanding balance.
Tesco wrote to Mr B confirming his application had been correctly declined due to his level 
borrowing. Tesco clarified they had to consider Mr B's finance agreement as it had an 
outstanding balance at the time of his loan application. Mr B brought his complaint to our 
service because he remained unhappy with Tesco.
Our investigator didn't think Mr B's complaint should be upheld. She felt Tesco had 
considered Mr B's application fairly. Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint 
was passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr B's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome Mr B wanted, but I'll explain my reasons below.
Our service can't tell a bank who they should or shouldn't give a loan. But what we can 
consider is whether a particular customer has been treated the same as other customers 
with similar circumstances.
 
 
 
 
In this case, Tesco said Mr B's loan application was declined due to his level of borrowing at 
the time. Tesco based their decision on the information contained in Mr B's credit file. And 
the main contributing factor was the amount showed as owing under Mr B's finance agreement for his car. Mr B didn't think Tesco should have based their decision on his 
finance agreement as he made all the required payments on time. He was also due to give 
his car back - and the amount owing would subsequently be cleared. And Mr B provided 
evidence from his finance provider showing his car was due to be collected, and the 
agreement would end, at the end of the following month.
I've taken on board what Mr B has said about his finance agreement, and the evidence he 
provided to support this point. However, I can't ignore the fact that Mr B's loan application 
was made before his finance agreement ended. And the evidence he provided showed he 
still had a large amount of borrowing at the time of his application. Tesco has said they have 
to consider the circumstances of potential customers at the time of their application. And that 
approach seems reasonable. I say that because sometimes things change. Had 
Tesco offered Mr B a loan, and then the return of Mr B's car not fully cleared the outstanding 
balance of the finance agreement - the loan may not have been affordable. And this is the 
type of thing I would expect a responsible lender to consider before providing borrowing.
Mr B also holds a savings account with Tesco. The balance of this was larger than the 
amount outstanding on Mr B's finance agreement. Mr B wanted Tesco to take this into 
consideration when reassessing his loan application because it shows he could afford to pay 
off the loan. However, Tesco has told us they don't consider savings when reviewing loan 
applications. As this isn't something Tesco would consider with other customers, I can't say 
they treated Mr B unfairly by not considering them in his circumstances. I also can't ignore 
the fact the money in Mr B's savings account can't be withdrawn until 2021 - so those funds 
aren't readily accessible to him at the moment.
I've not seen any evidence to suggest Tesco treated Mr B differently when considering his 
loan application. And because of this, I won't be asking Tesco to do anything to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman