DRN-2820256
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the increase to the premium charged by Vitality Health Limited for 
her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S was previously covered under her employers group medical insurance policy with 
Vitality. When her employer made arrangements to transfer the group policy to another 
provider, Mrs S chose to remain with Vitality and transferred to an individual policy in 2013.
A few years later, Mrs S received treatment for a medical condition and made a claim under 
the policy. At that time, Mrs Ss policy operated a no-claims discount (NCD). 
Then in 2018, Vitality made the decision to remove its NCD. Since then, Mrs Ss premiums 
have increased which shes unhappy about. Mrs S asked this service to look into her 
concerns.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ss complaint be upheld. He thought Vitality had 
been entitled to decide how to work out the cost of the premiums, and said that this had 
been the case for all of Vitalitys policyholders.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has provided a detailed explanation to this service about her concerns. Id like to 
reassure her that Ive taken all her points into account, though Ive only summarised the 
information within this decision. This reflects the fact that our service, wherever possible, 
aims to be informal.
Id like to explain to Mrs S that this service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer 
to decide how much to charge for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgment fairly 
and consistently, its a matter in which this service wouldnt normally interfere.
In 2018, Vitality chose to remove the NCD from the policy. Vitality wrote to all policyholders 
and explained that it would be introducing a new method of calculating adjustments to 
premiums at renewal. 
Vitality said the new method would take into account three factors  age, the base medical 
inflation rate, and claim payments made. This is also confirmed in the policy terms and 
conditions from the 2018 renewal. 
Mrs S is unhappy with the final aspect, which is the increase based on the claim payments 
made. The policy terms make it clear that where a claim or claims have been made, Vitality 
will look to see how much has been paid out over a certain length of time. If more than 
£1,000 has been paid, then this will result in the highest percentage increase (though this 
can be reduced by the members Vitality status). 
Mrs S makes the point that shes only claimed for one medical condition since 2016, and 
although shes needed treatment across a number of policy years, Vitality has dealt with it all 
under one claim number. The amount Vitality paid for Mrs Ss claim in 2016 was more than 
the £1,000 threshold. Thats meant that at each renewal since 2018 (when Vitality changed 
the way it worked out renewal premiums) Mrs S has always been above the £1,000 
threshold, and so the higher premium increase has continued to apply at each renewal. 
Mrs S points out that if shed claimed for the full amount in one policy year (instead of across 
several policy years), then shed have only received the increase once rather than at each 
renewal. 
I do understand Mrs Ss frustration. However, as our investigator has explained, Vitality is 
entitled to decide how it works out the renewal premium. Its method is clearly set out in its 
policy terms, and Vitality has calculated Mrs Ss renewal prices since 2018 in line with that. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs S is unhappy with the fact that her ongoing claim has had an impact 
on her premiums since 2018, I dont think Vitality has done anything wrong.  
Mrs S says she thinks that Vitalitys policy wording is unclear. She points out that Vitality has 
referred to claims made as well as claims paid. Having read the policy wording, I dont 
agree with Mrs S that this is unclear. Although it refers to claims made, it makes it clear that 
the increases are based on the payments made under those claims. 
The policy terms also give some examples of how a members premium might be affected in 
different scenarios. Although Mrs S says that her situation isnt included in the examples, I 
wouldnt expect Vitality to include every possible scenario that might occur.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman