DRN-3728590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined their request for a new 
mortgage. They believe they have been discriminated against on the basis of age. To settle 
the complaint Mr and Mrs G want Santander to extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs G being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in 2006 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Santander. They borrowed £359,000 
on an interest-only basis over a term of 12 years. The application shows that the repayment 
vehicle was to be a sale of the property.
However, by 2018, when the mortgage was due to mature, Mr and Mrs G decided that they 
didnt want to sell the property; instead they wanted to re-mortgage on a capital repayment 
basis, with an extended term of 10-12 years. Santander was only able to offer a five-year 
extension, saying that longer than that would extend into its maximum lending age of 75.
Mr and Mrs G made a complaint to our service about this, saying it was discriminatory. After 
we became involved in the complaint Santander said that, as an exception, it would consider 
an application, but that this was conditional on Mr and Mrs G satisfying its lending criteria. 
Because of the pandemic, it took a considerable amount of time for Mr and Mrs Gs 
accountant to provide documents about Mr and Mrs Gs income  which was beyond the 
control of both Mr and Mrs G and Santander. However, because of this, we explained to 
Mr and Mrs G that we would close their complaint, as we couldnt leave it open indefinitely. 
But if, after making their application, Mr and Mrs G were still unhappy, they could bring a 
second complaint to us. 
It is this second complaint that I am now considering because Santander declined the 
application for a new mortgage. This was unrelated to age, but was declined on the basis of 
affordability. Mr and Mrs G raised another complaint with us about this. Mr G is adamant that 
the reason the application was declined was due to age.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She explained to Mr and Mrs G that age wasnt a factor, but that the application had 
failed because it didnt meet Santanders lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr G has reiterated that he 
believes age is the deciding factor in Santanders decision to decline the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that the mortgage term came to an end in 2018 and the capital 
balance hasnt been repaid. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs original repayment strategy was 
that they were going to sell the property, but later decided they didnt want to.
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk, whether it should lend and if so, on what 
terms are clearly discretionary matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I 
would not interfere with. I cant tell Santander what criteria it must apply, or substitute my 
own decision for that of Santanders underwriters.
Santander has explained that, after reviewing the information provided by Mr and Mrs Gs 
accountant about their income, it was determined by the underwriters that this didnt meet 
Santanders affordability criteria. 
I note that Mr and Mrs Gs primary source of income was directors loans from a limited 
company. This is not considered an acceptable source of income by Santander and so 
couldnt be taken into consideration when assessing the application. After disallowing this 
income source, the application failed on affordability. Im satisfied that age was not a factor 
in this decision, it was purely in relation to income and affordability.
Im satisfied that Santander gave fair consideration to the application and, having done so, 
was entitled to apply its lending criteria to the information provided by Mr and Mrs Gs 
accountants. In this case, Mr and Mrs Gs source of income didnt meet Santanders criteria. 
As a result, the bank hasnt been able to offer Mr and Mrs G a new mortgage. In all the 
circumstances, Im unable to find that Santander has done anything wrong.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs G were hoping for. I know they have been 
overpaying the mortgage, but now this matter is concluded, Mr and Mrs G will need to look 
for an alternative repayment strategy for this mortgage. The mortgage is now more than four 
years overdue for repayment, so it is imperative that Mr and Mrs G take steps to arrange for 
repayment of the remaining balance sooner rather than later. In this regard, Mr and Mrs G 
might find it helpful to speak to an independent financial adviser to discuss what other 
mortgage options might be available through other lenders. Mr and Mrs G can find details of 
independent financial advisers on the Financial Conduct Authority website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman