DRN-3052254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly rejected their claim on 
their home insurance policy. They would like their claim to be paid in full through a cash 
settlement. 
HDI are the underwriters of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. As such they are responsible for 
complaints about the declining of the claim. Ill only refer to HDI in my decision. But note that 
Mr and Mrs T had dealings with other businesses.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had their home insurance policy through HDI. 
After a rainstorm on 28 June 2020, water got into their home through the front bay window. 
On 3 July 2020 they made a claim on their home insurance policy for the water damage they 
say the rainstorm caused. 
A surveyor attended the property on 7 July 2020 to assess the claim. They produced a 
report dated 17 July 2020. This concluded that there was no evidence that the water 
damage had been caused by a storm, as defined by the policy documents. But the report 
concluded that a one-off incident of water ingress had caused the damage to the ceiling and 
wall. They agreed to cover that damage under the accidental damage section of Mr and Mrs 
Ts policy. They paid £206.89 net of the £350 policy excess in cash settlement.
But Mr and Mrs T still needed their damaged carpets and curtains to be replaced. Theyd 
been damaged in the same incident. So they got in touch with HDI to complete their claim. A 
further supplier was appointed to validate this part of the claim. But it was rejected.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained. Their complaint wasnt upheld. HDI said there was no 
evidence of storm-related damage. And they said that the water damage to the ceiling and 
wall shouldnt have been covered under the accidental damage section of Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy. This was because that section of the policy didnt cover any loss or damage caused 
by water entering the home. So they said that the claim shouldve been declined in full. HDI 
apologised for the overall handling of Mr and Mrs Ts claim. And said that in recognition of 
the service theyd received, they wouldnt ask them to repay the £206.89 theyd been paid.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this response. So they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. Hed found no evidence that the rainfall had 
been sufficient to be classed as a storm under the terms of the policy. So he felt HDI had 
fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. He felt that HDI had acknowledged the level of service 
wasnt as good as it shouldve been. But considered that their decision not to ask for re-
imbursement of the £206.89 paid out in error was fair.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They repeated their point that they hadnt made a claim for the 
damage, caused over time, to the floor. But they remained convinced that the water damage 
had been caused by the heavy rain on 28 June 2020. They also felt that the compensation 
theyd been offered wasnt sufficient for the way their claim had been handled and for the 
time and upset this had caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As our investigator noted, when this service considers a complaint about a claim for storm 
damage, we need to decide whether the evidence shows that there was a storm. If so, we 
then look at whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm and 
whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
In this case, the policy defines Storm as:
Strong winds of 41 knots / 47 mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
Heavy or persistent rain alone does not constitute storm unless the downpour is torrential 
(25mm / 1 inch or more of rain over a one-hour period, or a proportionate amount over a 
shorter time).
Ive looked at independent weather data to see if the weather conditions experienced on 28 
June 2020 met the definition of Storm under the policy. Unfortunately, I havent found any 
evidence that they did. The maximum hourly rainfall was 4.8mm in a one-hour period. And 
theres no evidence of strong winds meeting the policy definition. 
I acknowledge that there was heavy rain. I understand why Mr and Mrs T consider that the 
heavy rain caused the damage. And I can see that the surveyor also thought that it had been 
the cause of the water damage. Their 17 July 2020 report states: Internal Ceiling - it is my 
considered opinion that the damage is a result of a recent fortuitous ingress. As such I have 
covered this damage under AD and agreed settlement. The surveyor agreed a settlement 
for the water damage with Mr and Mrs T on the basis that the heavy rain had caused the 
damage. And that the damage was covered under the accidental damage section of their 
policy. But this wasnt correct.
The accidental damage section of the policy contains exclusions. Ive copied the exclusion 
HDI have relied on to decline the claim below:
What is not covered?
Any loss or damage:
caused by water entering the home
The policy wording is clear that damage caused by water entering the home isnt covered 
under the accidental damage peril section in the policy.
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs T. But Im satisfied that HDI fairly and reasonably 
declined to cover the claim in full due to this policy exclusion. 
Distress and inconvenience
I can see that Mr and Mrs T were inconvenienced by the poor handling of their claim. They could see that the water damage had been caused by the heavy rainfall. And the surveyor 
agreed with them. It mustve been frustrating. They had to live with the damage caused by 
the rainfall while waiting for the claim to be resolved. But the policy terms clearly rule out a 
claim for water damage without evidence of a Storm. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs T have had to chase HDI to get their claim completed. The 
claims process wasnt efficient. Communication with HDI was difficult. But I also note that 
HDI havent asked for the £206.89 mistakenly paid out. Theyve apologised and have 
explained how the error with Mr and Mrs Ts claim happened.
All things considered, Im satisfied that HDI have taken reasonable steps to put things right. 
So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman