DRN-3187139
The complaint
Mr L complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and its cash 
settlement amount following a fire and escape of water at his home. He wants RSA to pay 
for the labour required to carry out the kitchen replacement.  
What happened
Mr L insured his home via a broker. His policy is underwritten by RSA. 
In December 2019, Mr L suffered a fire which damaged his kitchen units, wall coverings, 
ceiling and worktops. He also discovered that there had been an escape of water which had 
caused damage to the floor and walls.
Mr L contacted RSA and submitted two claims under his building insurance. 
RSA sent its agent to assess the claims and to prepare schedules of work. Some work, 
including strip out costs, was apportioned between the claims. 
RSA chose to cash settle the fire claim and offered Mr L £4277.85. 
In early 2020, Mr L contacted RSA about the strip out that was being carried out for his 
escape of water claim. Only half of the kitchen was being stripped out by RSAs agents. RSA 
said that the strip out for the fire damage had already been cash settled in the December 
2019 settlement. 
Mr L complained. He expected the whole kitchen to be stripped out as full renovation was 
needed. 
Before this complaint was resolved, the UK went into a national lockdown. RSAs agent 
failed to contact Mr L and closed his claim. 
Mr L contacted RSA in July 2020 and the claim was re-opened. It became clear that Mr L 
understood that the settlement had been to enable him to buy replacement materials, and he 
believed that the strip and fit out works would be done by RSAs contractors. RSA 
maintained that the fire claim had been fully settled, including the works required, and the 
only remaining settlement was a further payment of around £1500 for the escape of water 
claim. 
RSA responded to the complaint in December 2020. RSA did not uphold Mr Ls complaint 
and pointed to the policy terms which indicated that RSA would pay the lesser amount of 
The cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor; or
The cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from your 
nominated contractors.
Mr L complained to us. He was unable to engage a contractor to complete the kitchen 
replacement within the amount of his settlement. He had received quotes for the work 
ranging from £11,000 + VAT up to more than £22,000 + VAT. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that his complaint be upheld.
The investigator noted the policy terms but explained that our established approach is that 
when an insurer elects to cash settle a claim, that the settlement figure must be enough to 
allow the consumer to be put back into the position they were in prior to the loss. She noted 
that the work quoted for was the same detail as RSA had included in its schedule of work 
and so the quotes Mr L had received were the market rate for this work. She recommended 
that RSA increase its offer of settlement to cover both materials and the lower of the quotes 
that Mr L has obtained for work. She also recommended that RSA pay Mr L compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
RSA has not accepted that view. RSA pointed again to the policy wording and argued that its 
contractors could have carried out the work at that cost. It therefore considered that this was 
the appropriate settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the additional comments of RSA, and I have listened to the 
available calls. I have also reviewed the schedule of works, provided by RSA. 
I agree with the investigators view. The evidence supports that it was RSAs decision to 
cash settle the claims and I cannot see that it was an option for Mr L to have the repair 
works carried out by RSAs contractors. 
Insurers have access to contractors and assessment tools which may be helpful in 
calculating costs for the insurer, should their contractors carry out the work, but the 
settlement values they reach through these means are not always representative of what 
contractors, and market rates, are actually available to the consumer through the open 
market. Since insurers may benefit from preferential rates which are not available to 
consumers our approach is, as my colleague explained, to expect that where an insurer has 
elected to cash settle, the settlement is sufficient to indemnify the consumer. 
RSA has made a payment to Mr L which it considers includes a proportion towards the strip 
out, waste disposal, making good of walls and installation of a kitchen and tiles. I cannot see 
from the evidence how this sum was arrived at, and what amount was to cover materials or 
work, but it is evident from the quotes that Mr L has received, that the amount falls far short 
of being enough for Mr L to be put back in the position he was in before the loss. 
For that reason, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct RSA to increase its offer of settlement. 
Putting things right
In order to put Mr L in the position he ought to have been in, RSA needs to increase its 
overall settlement to cover Mr Ls updated quotes. 
This should be the market rate for like for like materials (kitchen units, fittings, tiles etc) and 
the work costs of the lower of Mr Ls quotes. RSA should provide a breakdown of the costs 
being reimbursed to Mr L.  For the avoidance of doubt, the total sum paid to Mr L (including sums already paid) should 
cover the market rate achievable by Mr L for strip out, waste removal, materials and works in 
order to reinstate a kitchen to the previous standard. His excess can be deducted from each 
claim.  
I agree with the investigators view that the under settlement of this claim, and the 
consequential delays to getting repairs completed, will have caused Mr L distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore agree that RSA should pay to Mr L £150 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to:
Increase its settlement offer to Mr L to cover the market rate (that is the rate 
achievable by Mr L) for reinstatement of his kitchen. This will be based on the lowest 
of his updated quotes for work and the like for like cost of materials;
Provide a breakdown of the settlement figure to Mr L; and
Pay to Mr L £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman