DRN-2835664
The complaint
Miss A complains that London and Country Mortgages Ltd caused delays when she applied 
for a mortgage. She wants L&C to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused.
What happened
Miss A approached L&C in August 2020. Her mortgage application was submitted on 11 
August 2020, and the mortgage offer was issued on 24 September 2020.
Miss A complained to L&C about delays to her mortgage application. But L&C didnt uphold 
the complaint. It said, in summary:
It didnt agree that it had advised Miss A she would receive her offer by 21 
September 2020;
Once the application was submitted responsibility for the processing rested entirely 
with the lender concerned. In order to do so it would ask for any supporting 
information it felt is necessary in order to satisfy itself that an application meets its 
lending criteria and this could be requested at any stage during the underwriting 
process; 
With regard to the time taken for the lender to send out the mortgage offer to the 
nominated solicitors, the processing and generation of the offer rested with the lender 
involved and L&Cs staff had no influence over this;
Although the lender may have implied that L&C was responsible for delays, it couldnt 
agree based on the information available. L&C spoke to the lender on 3 September 
and no further request was made for additional information. The lender then emailed 
with an update on 7 September requesting additional information, which L&Cs staff 
actioned.
Miss A wasnt satisfied with L&Cs response, and so she brought her complaint to this 
service. She said, in summary, that the delays she experienced caused her months of 
significant distress and inconvenience. As well as dealing with numerous calls from L&C and 
the lender she had spent a considerable amount of time trying to reassure the sellers 
solicitors and estate agent that she was still interested in the property. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss As complaint, but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
He said, in particular:
While Miss A had expected a mortgage offer by 21 September 2020 the emails from 
L&C didnt provide or promise any specific dates for the offer;
Although Miss A was unhappy about the delay for the lender to send out the 
mortgage offer to her solicitors this was outside the control of L&C as the offer was 
handled by the lender;
The mortgage application didnt have any major delays from the application being 
submitted on 11 August 2020 to the mortgage offer on 24 September 2020, apart 
from the 3 weeks for the booking and completion of the valuation which was handled 
by the lender.
Miss A isnt happy with our investigators conclusions and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She says in particular that L&C did cause delays even 
though it was aware of the urgency and the potential loss of the purchase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments in this complaint Ive come to 
the same conclusion as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that 
this will come as a disappointment to Miss A, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Miss A says that L&C told her it could complete her mortgage offer prior to her date of entry 
on 9 September 2020. But, although Ive considered what she has to say, I havent seen any 
evidence to support this. The call notes from a call at the beginning of August 2020 record 
that she was told that lenders were taking 6 to 8 weeks to issue offers, and that there was no 
guarantee of the timescale. And Ive not seen any other evidence to show that L&C 
suggested that the mortgage offer would definitely be received sooner. 
Miss As mortgage application was submitted on 11 August 2020, and the offer was issued 
on 24 September 2020. This is a little over 6 weeks, and the largest delay was in the lender 
instructing the valuation, which was not L&Cs responsibility. So Im satisfied that the offer 
was made within the timescale L&C had initially indicated. And  although I appreciate that 
the lender told Miss A that L&C had caused delay - Ive not seen any evidence of undue 
delays on L&Cs part. 
I appreciate that Miss A has explained that she was under a lot of pressure to complete the 
purchase of the property. But although I sympathise, as Ive not found that L&C caused 
undue delay Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to hold it responsible for the 
stress Miss A undoubtedly suffered. I agree with our investigator that it was Miss As 
decision to set a date to complete the purchase before the mortgage offer was issued. And, 
as he explained, although a lender may expedite an application in certain circumstances 
there is no guarantee that it will do so, or that any deadlines will be met.
As I dont find that L&C made an error I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman