DRN-4077539
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how Oakbrook Finance Limited have reported her loan account to her 
credit file.
What happened
Mrs M had a personal loan with Oakbrook. In September 2020, Oakbrook were contacted by 
a debt charity on Mrs Ms behalf who informed them that Mrs M was experiencing financial 
difficulty and asked Oakbrook to accept reduced monthly payments from Mrs M. Oakbrook 
accepted the proposal put forwards by the debt charity and Mrs M made reduced payments 
to her loan account in accordance with that plan. However, Mrs M noticed that Oakbrook 
were reporting missed payments to her credit file regarding the loan, which she didnt feel 
should be the case. So, she raised a complaint. 
Oakbrook responded Mrs M and explained that they didnt feel that theyd made any errors 
in how theyd reporting her loan to the credit reference agencies. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with 
Oakbrooks response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Oakbrook had acted 
unfairly in how they managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has explained that after Oakbrook agreed to the reduced payment plan, she didnt 
miss any payments at the reduced amount and so feels that the reporting of missed 
payments to her credit file is incorrect.
I can appreciate Mrs Ms argument here, but unfortunately it appears to be based on an 
incorrect understanding of how credit file reporting operates when reduced payment plans 
have been agreed to.
The reason why Oakbrooks reporting of missed payments to Mrs Ms credit file is correct is 
because credit file reporting is based on the contractual terms of the loan, as per the loan 
agreement. In short, the reporting is based on the contractual loan payment amount, and it 
isnt affected by any reduced payment plans that a credit provider might accept and agree to.
In this instance, before Mrs M engaged the debt charity to act on her behalf, she was 
contractually obliged to pay £55.58 a month to her loan. And she paid this amount up until 
the reduced payment plan was agreed.
When the debt charity contacted Oakbrook on Mrs Ms behalf, they proposed  and 
Oakbrook accepted  that Mrs M would pay a reduced sum of £19.57 a month. But even 
though Oakbrook accepted that Mrs M would pay this reduced amount, the credit file 
reporting was still undertaken based on the monthly amount that Mrs M was contractually 
required to pay - £55.68.
This meant that when Mrs M began making payments of £19.57 a month, she was paying 
£36.11 less than she was contractually required to pay. Consequently, this meant that after 
Mrs M made the first reduced payment of £19.57 in December 2020, she was £36.11 in 
arrears on the account. 
Furthermore, when Mrs M paid the second reduced payment amount the next month, she 
fell a further £36.11 in arrears, for a total of £72.22. And, importantly, because this amount of 
arrears (£72.22) was more than the contractually required payment (£55.68) Mrs M was 
considered to be more than one payment in arrears, and this was reported as such by 
Oakbrook to her credit file. And Oakbrook were correct to do so.
Additionally, as Mrs M made further reduced payments towards her account, she fell further 
and further into arrears on her account with each payment, and the number of full 
contractual payments she was considered to be behind on increased.
Ive reviewed how Oakbrook have reported Mrs Ms loan account to her credit file, and Im 
satisfied that they have reported it accurately and correctly and as would be expected given 
the reduced payments that Mrs M was making to the account  which as explained, werent 
to the level that she was contractually required to pay as per the loan agreement. 
Mrs M may ask what the point of a reduced payment plan is  if a credit provider is going to 
report arrears on the account because of those reduced payments. But when a credit 
provider such as Oakbrook agrees to a reduced payment plan, theyre agreeing to not chase 
the account holder in question for the arrears that develop on the account because the 
account holder cant make the contractually required payments. And, as explained, it isnt 
the case that theyre absolving the account holder of their contractual responsibilities to 
make the credit repayments as per the credit agreement. 
Mrs M might also suggest that if shed known that making these reduced payments would 
impact her credit file in the way it has that she wouldnt have made them and would instead 
have made the payments required of her by the loan agreement. But the debt charity which 
approached Oakbrook provided details of Mrs Ms financial position which demonstrated that 
the reduced amount they were proposing to Oakbrook was all that Mrs M could reasonably 
afford to pay at that time. And so, I dont feel that Mrs M would, in all likelihood, have been 
able to continue the contractually required payments of £55.68, had she wanted to do so.
And, in circumstances such as this, where its clearly explained to a credit provider than an 
account holder can only make reduced payments to an account, it would be expected that 
the credit provider would accept those payments, in the manner that Oakbrook did  which 
includes credit file reporting resultant from those reduced payments as Ive explained. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs M was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
dont feel that Oakbrook have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here, and so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I hope Mrs M will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman