DRN-3576470
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr S complain that Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) provided 
misleading information about two EIS investments and believe that inadequate due diligence 
was undertaken. 
What happened
In early 2015 Mrs R and Mr S received advice from a third-party adviser to invest £120,000 
into Oxford Capitals EISs. Investment was made in March 2015 into a Growth Fund EIS and 
funds were deployed over time as the investee companies were approved by Oxford 
Capitals Investment Committee. Funds were split across six companies. The majority of 
funds were deployed by September 2015 under an accelerated allocation process to meet 
tax deadlines, the remaining £32,000 was deployed into an Infrastructure Fund EIS in 
October 2015, whereby Mrs R and Mr Ss respective investments were split across three 
investee companies.
It is common ground that Mrs R and Mr S sustained significant capital losses. They say that 
Oxford Capital misled them, they believed investment would only be made into companies 
with established management teams, proven technologies and tested business models and 
questioned whether extensive due diligence was undertaken.
Oxford Capital maintained that the investments were high risk due to the early stage of 
development of the underlying investee companies. Appropriate due diligence was 
undertaken with each investee company passing an Investment Committee approval. Oxford 
Capital maintained that there was ongoing management oversight of the investee companies 
after funds were deployed.
Oxford Capital pointed out that Mrs R and Mr S opted for accelerated investment because of 
the tax deadline, stating they would accept five companies as a minimum within their 
respective portfolios and ended up with six each in the Growth Fund EIS. Oxford Capital 
provided an explanation as to the reasons for each investee company within the Growth 
Fund EIS failing. 
As to the Infrastructure Fund EIS, Mrs R and Mr S each invested in three investee 
companies in reserve power, in line with the Information Memorandum (IM). At the time of 
investment in 2015, long-term contractual, government-backed revenue streams were 
available but later legislative changes (such as removal of the TRIAD system in 2018, 
suspension of Capacity Markets in November 2018 and changes to emissions legislation in 
March 2019) negatively impacted the investee companies. Oxford Capital maintained that 
risks were properly highlighted within the IM and it was unfortunate that several risks 
materialised resulting in poor performance. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He noted that in 
respect of both EISs, Oxford Capital was the discretionary investment manager and the 
investments were known to be high risk. Our investigator considered that Oxford Capital had 
invested in line with the mandate set out in the respective IMs for each EIS. Reviewing the 
information provided he considered that Oxford Capital had undertaken a reasonable 
assessment of the companies before investing. Further, on balance, our investigator 
considered that ongoing reviews were undertaken by an Investment Committee and 
assessments were undertaken before additional funds were deployed. Ultimately, it was a 
matter within Oxford Capitals commercial discretion to decide how to invest the funds. There 
was nothing to show that any underlying business failed immediately, the information 
provided suggested the investments began to fail within two-three of years, which was 
unfortunate, but no assurances were given about performance and investment risks were 
clearly set out in the respective IMs. Further, these EIS investments were inherently high risk 
so failure of an investment did not necessarily indicate that it had been poorly managed.
Mrs R and Mr S disagree with the outcome. They say there was a lack of diversification 
within the Infrastructure Fund EIS. As to the Growth Fund EIS, they raise concern that funds 
were invested into the same companies on consecutive rounds of investment, without 
evidencing due diligence, which suggested Oxford Capital were throwing good money after 
bad. They raise general concern about Oxford Capital misleading clients in order to win 
business.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R and Mr Ss financial adviser recommended these investments. So, this decision does 
not consider whether the recommendations were suitable for Mrs R and Mr Ss respective 
attitudes to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint about 
suitability of the recommendation lies against the provider of that advice. The investment 
agreements, signed by Mrs R and Mr S, expressly stated that Oxford Capital were not 
providing advice as to the suitability of the investments. 
Its clear that Mrs R and Mr S are disappointed with the performance of their investments. 
Having read all the information provided, I hope they wont take it as a discourtesy that I 
havent addressed every point raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, the focus of this decision is 
whether Oxford Capital provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
particular investments within the EISs, whether due diligence was undertaken and whether 
the investments were managed in line with the mandate.
Risk
I think it is important to recognise at the outset that Mrs S and Mr R understood that the EIS 
investments were high risk. EISs are non-mainstream, complex and illiquid, specialised and 
speculative investments, where there is a real risk of losing the original capital investment. It 
is this risk, which justifies the tax benefits. It follows that Mrs S and Mr R knew or ought to 
have known that they were placing all of their capital investment at risk. Having reviewed the 
respective IMs for each EIS, I am satisfied that this risk was expressly highlighted.
The risk section in the Infrastructure EIS also highlighted a number of other risks, including 
the potential for changes in or withdrawal of legislation and the risk of fluctuation in power 
prices, impacting annual revenue. Development risks, particularly surrounding those 
companies in the development phase of an infrastructure project were highlighted. Liquidity 
risks whereby exit from the investment could be delayed considerably beyond the three year 
were also clear. Operational and financing risks were also set out.The risk section in the Growth EIS also highlighted that one or more of the companies in the 
portfolio may fail. EIS tax reliefs were not guaranteed and returns from funds invested in 
follow-on investments may differ from earlier investors. Liquidity risks were also highlighted, 
whereby return of capital could take longer than 4-6 years.
On balance, I am satisfied from the information provided that Oxford Capital provided clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the risks of investment and Im persuaded that the 
risks were fairly highlighted. Im satisfied that Oxford Capital made a distinction between 
investment strategy with a target return providing significant tax benefits balanced against 
the inherent high-risk nature of the investments.
Investment in line with the mandate
As discretionary investment manager, it was for Oxford Capital to invest in line with the 
mandate. Mrs R and Mr S placed reliance on a presentation given by Oxford Capital to them 
and their adviser. Whilst that gave a broad overview of the service provided, the key 
documents were the respective IMs, which also set out the terms of the respective 
Investment Management Agreements. Mrs R and Mr S signed to say they had read and 
understood the content of the IMs and I think thats likely given their respective levels of 
investment experience set out in the application forms. And as I have set out above, it was 
for Mrs R and Mr Ss adviser to consider whether the particular EISs were suitable for Mrs R 
and Mr Ss respective needs.
The Growth Fund EIS IM said investment would be a mix of new and follow-on investments, 
creating a portfolio of around 6-10 UK growth companies, which would be small and unlisted, 
where strong management teams were in place, products/services were innovative, there 
were high margins and large, fast-growing or uncontested markets. As Mrs R and Mr S 
opted for accelerated investment, they confirmed they would invest across five companies, 
accepting there could be greater volatility from a smaller portfolio of companies. In fact,    
Mrs R and Mr S each invested across six companies at different stages of development, 
broadly in the fields of technology and healthcare. No guarantees were given as to the 
industry sector, although an indication of themes such as communications and technology, 
healthcare and sustainability was set out in the IM, so the areas of investment were not 
inconsistent with this. The target return was for 2.5x after 4-6 years.
The Infrastructure Fund EIS IM said investment would in companies that developed or 
owned assets, which generated regular income. Grid support was highlighted as a sector. 
The IM highlighted in the risk section that whilst funds may be invested in more than one 
company, it was possible that the companies would operate in the same industry sector, 
exposing the entire investment to particular industry risks. Mrs R and Mr S each invested 
across three companies owning or operating reserve power plants, which was in line with the 
mandate. Ive seen that Oxford Capital highlighted the risk of lack of diversification and this 
was a matter for Mrs R and Mr S to consider when assessing whether the risk exposure met 
their risk appetite. The target return was 1.1x to 1.15x after 4 years.
Having reviewed the evidence, I am satisfied, on balance, that Oxford Capital did invest the 
funds in line with the mandate. The objective of tax efficiency was met, funds were invested 
in EIS qualifying companies, in sectors in line with the information held out in the IMs and the 
number of investee companies was consistent with the details in the IMs. 
Its unfortunate that a combination of the risk factors identified in the IMs materialised for the 
investee companies, but I havent seen anything to show that Oxford Capital ought 
reasonably to have foreseen this at the point Mrs R and Mr S invested in 2015. As to the Infrastructure Fund EIS, the wider landscape with changes to legislation and falling energy 
prices were matters outside of Oxford Capitals control and the illiquidity risks had been 
clearly highlighted. As to the Growth Fund EIS, the companies failed a significant time after 
the funds had been invested and the risks had been highlighted from the outset.
Due Diligence
Oxford Capital have provided evidence to show that steps were taken to assess the viability 
of new investee companies before funds were deployed. Theyve explained to Mrs R and   
Mr S the due diligence process, including assessment by an Investment Committee. The 
documents provided by Oxford Capital show that analysis was undertaken into each 
underlying company, such as company structure, profitability and financial planning along 
with industry specific data. For those companies that were already established, Ive seen 
that ongoing reporting and assessment was undertaken by Oxford Capital. In particular for 
the established companies, Oxford Capital have shown that assessments were made as to 
performance and future viability, before the funds were deployed
As our investigator has explained, it was for Oxford Capital to make legitimate commercial 
decisions as the discretionary investment manager as to the deployment of funds into each 
company. And whilst I recognise the disappointment with the investment failure, it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable for me to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight. From the 
information provided, theres nothing to show that Oxford Capital changed its strategy or that 
there were significant flags at the point funds were deployed in 2015. That the companies 
subsequently went onto fail was unfortunate but I consider that the risks were highlighted. 
Mrs R and Mr S are mistaken in their assertion that companies in the Growth EIS failed 
immediately, Oxford Capitals records show that the time lines were much longer, closer to 
2-3 years later and all had received further investment as they had demonstrated potential. 
As Mrs R and Mr S were aware, performance wasnt guaranteed. 
As to the Infrastructure EIS, Im persuaded that the legislative changes and drop in tariffs 
occurred at least 2-3 years after funds were deployed into the investee companies.
Its clear from the application forms that tax benefits were a central consideration for Mrs R 
and Mr S and it hasnt been suggested this objective wasnt met. To gain the significant tax 
advantages, investors needed to remain invested for at least three years. The IMs gave 
clear information that exit times would likely be longer, so Mrs R and Mr S knew or ought to 
have known that their funds would be tied into these investments for several years. It is a 
relevant factor that by remaining invested, the EIS qualification was met and tax benefits 
remained available. 
So, on balance, taking all these factors as a whole, I am not persuaded that Oxford Capital 
did anything wrong. As our investigator has highlighted, it may be that Mrs R and Mr S can 
claim loss relief.
 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R and Mr S but for the reasons set out above, I am not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman