DRN-2799310
The complaint
X complains Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, will not refund some disputed transactions 
on his credit card.
What happened
X was on holiday between 19th February and 11th March 2020.  On his return, he said he 
checked his credit card balance and realised there were a large number of transactions 
which he had not made nor authorised.  He called Halifax and his card was cancelled.  It 
said it would investigate matters for him.
X told Halifax that he had travelled to Canada on holiday.  He had arrived on 19th February, 
travelled to a friends house, left some belonging there and then started a car journey from 
Toronto to Montreal with his friend.  He had stopped at a petrol station where the attendant 
had filled his car up with petrol for him  but then he was directed to go inside to the kiosk to 
make a payment.  X says this was because the attendant had said he was using a UK 
payment card.
Once inside, he attempted to pay for his petrol using his Halifax credit card.  He had covered 
the terminal as he entered his PIN.  However, he was told the payment had not been 
successful and so, his friend had to pay for it instead.  He thinks he did this using cash.
X said that once he had arrived in Montreal, he had realised his Halifax card was missing but 
he wasnt concerned as he thought he had left it at his friends house in Toronto.  He said he 
had forgotten he had tried to use it on the way to Montreal. He hadnt needed to use it again 
during his stay in Canada as his friend had owed him some money and he had given that to 
him in cash.
When he returned to the UK, he noticed the transactions and reported the matter to Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold Xs complaint.  It said that most of the payments had been made using 
Xs genuine card and PIN.  As there had been no feasible explanation as to how Xs PIN 
could have been compromised, it had concluded he had authorised the payments.
For the delay in dealing with Xs complaint  it offered him £30.
X then brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him  but our investigator didnt think she could ask Halifax to do anymore.
X made some further submissions and asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both X and Halifax have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis 
of my decision. However, I can assure X that Ive read the file, including his comments 
and evidence.
disputed transactions 
Im afraid I dont have good news for X. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive also concluded 
that he authorised the transactions. Therefore, I wont be asking Halifax to refund any 
payments. Ill explain my reasons below.
In short, Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs 2017).
X says he didnt make the disputed payments and is seeking a refund. So, my 
primary concern is to come to a view about whether I think he authorised the 
payments.
Having reviewed the banks reports, Im satisfied that Xs genuine card and PIN were 
used in order for the disputed payments to take place. But the regulations relevant to 
this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So, I 
also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that X consented to the payments being made.
Ive done that  and for the following reasons Ive concluded that X consented to these 
payments:
- I dont think its likely that X would have left his card behind at the petrol station 
once his friend had paid for the petrol  and then forget he may have done so 
once he had arrived at his destination.  His account that he had thought he may 
have left it in Toronto just isnt credible;
- there is no evidence on Xs audit trail that he had attempted to use his card on 
19th February at the petrol station.  X thinks this may be because the terminal 
was not genuine.  Ive thought about that  and whilst its possible, in the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think its likely;
- the transactions arent usual for what we would normally see if a fraudster had 
managed to gain possession of a card.  If someone at the petrol station had 
managed to access Xs card and PIN, I would have expected them to have 
used up the balance on the card as quickly as possible.  Im afraid I dont buy 
Xs argument that the fraudster didnt do this because they knew the banks 
would be looking out for such behaviour;
- Initially, X denied a transaction from 20th February for almost £1000 was his.  
He then said he had forgotten that he had made that payment himself and had 
used his card details stored on his laptop to complete the payment.  That just 
doesnt stand up to scrutiny when I consider the evidence provided by Halifax;
- And whilst I place relatively little weight on it  there is no credible explanation 
as to how Xs PIN was compromised after he assured us he had covered the 
key pad when he entered it at the petrol station.
I dont find X to be credible witness and I think he made these transactions himself or allowed someone else to make them.  
What is less clear, and in fact something I dont need to make a finding on, is why he 
has decided to now tell Halifax that he had not authorised them.
could Halifax have done more?
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, 
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out 
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry 
guidance on this in the BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse.
X says Halifax should have identified the unusual transactions on his account because he 
had never used this card in this way before.
Again, Ive thought carefully about this and I think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in 
allowing the transactions on Xs account.  I think the use was in line with his previous, day 
to day spending on the account.
Ive already made a finding that X authorised these transactions.  What that means is that 
Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for them and I wont be asking that it does anymore.
Finally, I think the offer of £30 fairly compensates X for the delays in dealing with his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman