DRN-2811901
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc increased his credit limit without conducting 
proper checks. Hes explained that this was irresponsible as it was clear the credit card was 
being used for his gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr B took out a credit card with Capital One in 2012, he had a credit limit of £1,500. Mr B 
said that after this, during a difficult time in his life, he started gambling. In June 2016, 
Capital One increased Mr Bs credit card limit to £1,750. Mr B says that it didnt carry out 
enough checks, he explained that at this point he was a heavy gambler and only used his 
card to withdraw cash which funded his gambling. He also explained hed relied on payday 
loans in the run up to the credit increase.
In December 2017, Capital One increased Mr Bs credit limit to £2,250. Mr B said hed 
continued to gamble during this time, and had relied on payday loans. He submitted his 
current account statements to show he was using a large proportion of his income to pay 
debt and he felt that Capital One didnt do enough checks, and shouldnt have increased his 
limit.
Our investigator felt that Capital One had carried out sufficient checks prior to each increase. 
This included looking at the way Mr B had managed his credit card and his overall debt. It 
could also see that there were no live payday loans at the time of the increases. Our 
investigator said that the checks carried out were proportionate and wouldnt have alerted 
Capital One to any issues Mr B was experiencing.
Mr B has provided information to show the payday lending and gambling transactions 
around the time of the credit limit increases. He believes more checks shouldve been done. 
He has also said that the salary Capital One is relying on isnt correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them 
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. 
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount of the credit limit being applied for; and Mr Bs personal 
circumstances at the time of application.
2016 credit limit increase
This credit limit increase was for an additional £250. Capital One has shown us the checks 
that it completed at the time. It saw that Mr B had made more than the minimum repayment 
of his card regularly, and hed not gone over his limit. It was recorded that he had around 
£900 of unsecured debt and had taken out and repaid two payday loans in the last six 
months. The information that Mr B had given Capital One when he applied for his credit card 
showed his annual salary was £37,000 made up of a main income of £21,000 and another 
source of income of £16,000. From this information, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Capital One to offer to increase Mr Bs credit limit by £250. 
I can see Capital One wrote to Mr B two months before the increase to make him aware the 
increase would happen, and give Mr B an option to decline the increase. From the 
information Capital One had on Mr B, I dont think there was any reason to conduct any 
additional checks, particularly as the credit limit increase was for a fairly low amount. This is 
why it wouldnt have seen Mr Bs current account statements, which showed that hed often 
gamble. So, I dont think Capital One did anything wrong by increasing Mr Bs credit limit in 
2016 based on the checks it had completed.
2017 credit limit increase
This credit limit increase was for £500. The increase was offered to Mr B in October 2017, 
which is when Capital One completed its checks. The increase was applied in December 
2017. At the time of the checks, Capital One has shown us that Mr Bs unsecured debt was 
around £4,400 and it hadnt been informed of any changes in his salary. This Capital One 
credit card hadnt been used since June 2017 and had an outstanding balance of around 
£1,500. Mr B had paid more than the minimum amount on several occasions and hadnt 
gone over his limit.
Capital Ones checks also showed that Mr B didnt have any active payday loans. His credit 
card statements show he did use the card at betting shops but the amount averaged around 
£50 in the months he used the card. Based on these checks, Capital One increased Mr Bs 
limit by £500.
Although Mr Bs debt had substantially increased since the previous limit increase, I dont 
think it was at a level that would suggest a £500 increase was unaffordable at the time. The 
information Capital One had said Mr B was earning £37,000 per year, and hed managed his 
card well up to this point. And although there had been another payday loan within the last 
six months, this had been repaid. I think the checks that Capital One made were 
proportionate to the amount it was willing to lend to Mr B. And I dont think there was any 
indication that it should look further. Although there were some gambling transactions, I dont 
think there were enough to suggest that Capital One should be aware there may be a 
problem.
Mr B has provided me with bank statements to show that he was regularly gambling during 
that time, and that he had taken out a further payday loan. These statements generally cover 
the time period between the checks being carried out and the increase taking place  so the 
payday loan wouldnt have come up on the checks Capital One had completed.
I can see from Mr Bs current account statements that he was gambling regularly, but I have 
to determine whether Capital One ought to have been aware of this when it offered his credit 
limit increase. And, for the reasons Ive explained above, I think the checks it did were 
proportionate. This means it didnt have a need to look at Mr Bs current account statements 
 only upon sight of these would there be an indication of a possible problem. As I dont think 
Capital One needed to carry out more thorough checks, it follows that its reasonable it 
wasnt aware of any issues.What Capital One has done now
In October 2018, Mr B made Capital One aware that he was in financial difficulty. I 
understand there were some issues which have been dealt with separately, but I can see 
that Capital One made Mr B aware that help was available. Ive seen that since it has 
reduced Mr Bs minimum repayments to 1% and has offered him assistance to organise a 
repayment plan.
I can understand Mr B is in a difficult position, and Id expect Capital One to deal with Mr B 
positively and sympathetically. I encourage Mr B to continue to communicate with Capital 
One about his circumstances to ensure an agreement can be reached going forward. I do 
understand that Mr Bs circumstances over the last few years have been very difficult for 
him, but I hope Ive explained why I dont think Capital One shouldve carried out any further 
checks than it did when it gave him the credit limit increases.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman