DRN-3562844
The complaint
Mr H complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly amended 
details about a named driver on his motor insurance policy and this unfairly increased the 
cost of his premiums. 
There are several parties and representatives of Advantage involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Advantage.
What happened
Mr H bought a motor insurance policy through a price comparison website in 
September 2021. The policy included a named driver.
When entering his named drivers occupation he selected that they were retired. He felt this 
best described their status.
Towards the end of September 2021 when Advantage conducted checks of the details 
included in the application, it contacted Mr H by email to check his named drivers 
occupation was recorded correctly.
Mr H responded to say they were not employed or self-employed.
After a discussion between Mr H and an agent from Advantage, it said the named drivers 
occupation was best described as independent means and not retired as Mr H had 
selected. 
 
Advantage amended this information and emailed Mr H a new quote which increased the 
premiums of his policy by £23.53. Plus an administration fee of £30. It gave a deadline of 
11 October 2021 to discuss this, but Mr H didnt make contact. Advantage therefore 
amended his policy and charged the additional amount of £53.23.
Mr H said he did not agree to pay this as he felt he had provided the correct information.
As Mr H was not happy with Advantage, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and said although he 
accepted Mr H had completed the occupation of his named driver as he thought was correct, 
it had not been unreasonable for Advantage to disagree with his choice. And it was fair to 
amend it to living off independent means. But he felt the £30 administration charge should 
be refunded.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantages validation team checked with Mr H that the details of the named driver were 
correct because it could see he ran quotes prior to buying this specific policy, and he had 
used a different occupation for his named driver.
I think that Mr H selected retired in good faith as he felt this best described his named 
drivers occupation. But I think as he had used a different occupation in other quotes it 
shows he was not certain about which occupation to select. 
Mr H makes the point that his named driver could be described as retired as they are not 
employed, or claiming benefits, or receiving a pension. Mr H said they support themselves in 
other ways from savings and inheritance. He said that the fact the named driver has private 
means makes no material difference to the information available to the insurance company 
to assess his application and believes there should be no requirement to amend the policy.
Advantage said Mr Hs explanation meant it would categorise the named drivers occupation 
as independent means and it does not see this as retired if they are living off savings and 
inheritance.
I do understand that many people stop working before they reach retirement age, but after 
consideration of the options available to select for occupation in this case, I agree with 
Advantage that the most appropriate classification is independent means. And if Mr H 
wished for the named driver to stay on the policy this would need to be updated.
Mr H said there was no explanation of the occupation options available. However there were 
numerous occupation options to choose from and I dont think it is realistic for every single 
occupation scenario to be listed and a detailed explanation given. 
Advantage ran a new quote with the change to the occupation of the named driver and this 
meant an increase in policy premiums. It sent this quote to Mr H and gave a deadline for 
response. It also detailed that it would take payment from the card it had on file. As it 
received no response it updated his policy and charged the additional amount.
Each insurer will take its own view on how to assess the risks and premium applicable. It will 
decide what factors to take in to account and how much weight to put on each of them. We 
are unable to tell an insurer how to do this. In this case Advantage provided me with details 
of the policy underwriting criteria and I am satisfied the price Mr H was quoted has been 
calculated correctly.
I think Mr H acted in good faith and selected what he thought was the best option for his 
named driver when obtaining the quote. I dont think it is fair to charge an Administration fee 
in this case.
Therefore, I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint and I think Advantage should refund the £30 
charge made, but not the additional premium charged.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H a refund of the £30 
administration fee 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman