DRN-4069302
The complaint
Miss W complains that Revolut Ltd blocked her account twice leaving her unable to pay for 
food while on holiday.
Miss W wants Revolut to compensate her for the additional charges she incurred together 
with her wasted time.
What happened
Miss W says her Revolut card was frozen when trying to buy food abroad. Miss W says the 
Revolut app wouldnt allow her to unfreeze the card so she had to spend time on live chat 
trying to resolve the problem. Miss W says that she was concerned for her welfare as she 
couldnt buy food and water.
On another occasion, Miss W tried to pay for a meal but found her Revolut card was 
blocked. Miss W says she had to use an alternative credit card to complete the transaction 
and that this incurred additional charges. 
Revolut said that Miss Ws card had been blocked by its automated security system. Revolut 
paid Miss W £25 to apologise for any inconvenience to her.
Revolut said that the attempted payment for the meal was declined due to a terminal issue 
and that after it was declined Miss W blocked the account.
The investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint be upheld. He said the first 
payment was declined as part of Revoluts security process. The investigator said Miss W 
unblocked the card within a few minutes but that no further transactions were attempted until 
the next day. The investigator didnt think Revolut made a mistake. The investigator said the 
later transaction was declined by the restaurant rather than Revolut. 
Miss W wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. She said that her card was declined on 
two occasions at the shop. Miss W said that as she couldnt buy food and water, this left her 
with low blood sugar levels. Miss W said there were delays with the decline appearing in the 
app and then the freezing of the card. 
Miss W said it wasnt correct to say that her card was declined at the restaurant because of 
a problem with the merchant. Miss W said she tried to unfreeze the card but that this was 
delayed in the app as had happened earlier in the holiday. 
The investigator sent a second investigation outcome in which he still didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Ws complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Miss Ws complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I can see Miss W is unhappy with the way Revolut handled her complaint. But generally, the 
handling of complaints isnt in itself a regulated activity. So, while I understand Miss Ws 
concern that Revolut didnt deal promptly with her complaint, I dont intend to comment 
further on this point. 
The terms of Revoluts account say that it can prevent customers from making payments if 
its reasonably concerned about its security or that it might be used fraudulently or without 
your permission. I appreciate that its frustrating when this happens, but I dont consider 
Revolut was at fault when it blocked Miss Ws card when she was trying to buy food and 
water.
During the online chat at the time, Miss W said she unblocked the card but that it was 
declined again. Revoluts records show that although Miss W removed the block, there 
wasnt another attempt to use the card. Revolut say the most likely explanation is that the 
merchants authorisation didnt reach it and this seems reasonable. So, I dont have enough 
evidence to conclude that Revolut made a mistake.
Miss Ws card payment was unsuccessful for a second time later in the holiday. This time, 
Revolut says the payment was declined by the merchant because of a technical issue with 
chip validation, which could include a faulty chip or terminal. 
Although I appreciate Miss W may not agree, Revoluts records indicate that after the 
merchant declined the initial payment, Miss W blocked the card. So, I dont have enough 
evidence to decide that Revolut made a mistake which prevented Miss W from completing 
the transaction at the restaurant. It follows that I dont require Revolut to reimburse the 
additional charges Miss W incurred due to using an alternative payment method.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties that Miss W faced when using her Revolut card and 
app abroad and of the impact this had on her health. But taking everything into account, I 
dont consider Revolut was at fault, so I dont require it to take any further action in response 
to Miss Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman