DRN-3447429
The complaint
Ms Ws complaint is against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms Ws account was defaulted in January 2020. This was recorded on her credit file. 
Ms W has said she didnt receive a notice of default or termination letters. BOI have 
sent copies of the Notice of Default sent in October 2018 and the subsequent letters 
about the arrears on Ms Ws account and requesting that she get in touch. These 
letters were sent to the address we have for Ms W. So, while I cannot say why Ms W 
didnt receive these letters, on balance I find it reasonable to accept that the letters 
were sent and that Ms W was provided with adequate information about the status of 
her account.
Ms W was sent a letter in September 2018 about the agreed payment plan. This 
noted that once the account fell two months into arrears Ms W would be sent letters 
about a default and termination but that she could ignore these. Therefore, I accept 
that while letters were sent to Ms W about the default, had she received these it 
would have been reasonable for her to think no further action was required. BOI 
acknowledged this issue and sent Ms W a letter saying that because of the lack of 
clarity about a default still being able to be applied, her credit file had been updated 
to remove the default and instead show the account as being 6+ months in arrears. 
Given the information included in the payment plan letter I agree that it wouldnt be 
fair for Ms W to have default registered and so think BOI provided a reasonable 
resolution for this issue by removing the default. 
BOI also made a mistake when Ms Ws account was sold to a third party. BOI was 
allowed to make the sale but the information then recorded on Ms Ws credit file was 
incorrect. BOI acknowledged this and updated Ms Ws credit file. I find this 
reasonable.
BOI said that arrears had been correctly applied to Ms Ws credit file and noted that 
on a call in September 2018 Ms W was told that as she was no longer meeting her 
contractual repayments arrears would accrue and affect her credit file. Ms W 
subsequently said she checked her credit file in November 2021 and the default and 
arrears had been removed. BOI said that if this had happened the arrears wouldnt 
be reapplied. I do not find it unreasonable that arrears would have been applied at 
the time these were accruing but as it appears these have been removed, I find this 
resolves this part of the complaint. .
While Ms Ws credit file has been amended, the issues had a negative impact on 
Ms W and I agree that in this case compensation should be paid. BOI offered to pay 
Ms W £300. I think this is fair given the circumstances of this case for the following 
reasons:
oI have no evidence that Ms W was caused any financial loss due to the 
default being recorded on her credit file between January 2020 and April 2021 
or the incorrect information recorded at the sale of the account. I note she has 
said that she discovered the default in April 2021 and that this was when BOI 
sent a letter to say the default would be removed. So while I appreciate she 
was looking to get a mortgage at the time and she has said she put her 
property sale on hold, I think she had the information from BOI to show the 
amendment would be made and so she could have continued on this basis. 
oMs W has said she incurred costs specifically the cost of credit reports and 
legal advice. I note the comments, but Ms W obtained her credit report in April 
2021 before being aware of the default and so this was her choice to pay for 
this. She may then have acquired further reports to see if the amendments 
had been made but this was her choice and she could have accessed free 
services to obtain this information. Regarding the legal costs, again it was 
Ms Ws choice to pay for this and in this case I do not think it reasonable that 
BOI is required to cover these costs.
oWhile I have no evidence of a financial loss and do not require the costs 
Ms W has noted to be refunded, I do not think that BOI should pay Ms W 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused. 
Ms W discovered the default had been registered at a time she was seeking a 
mortgage so I accept this would have caused her stress. I am also sorry to 
hear of the health issues Ms W has experienced and accept that having to 
deal with this issue while suffering ill health would have been particularly 
difficult. BOI offered Ms W £300 and noting that Ms Ws credit file has been 
amended and this happened shortly after she became aware of the issue, I 
find this a reasonable offer. 
For these reasons, I do not require BOI to do anything more than set out in its final response 
letter and pay Ms W £300 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should, as it offered (and if this hasnt 
already happened) pay Ms W £300 compensation for the issues set out in this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman