DRN-3435127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio 
Marine HCC mishandled their claim on their caravan insurance policy.
Where I refer to Tokio Marine, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Tokio 
Marine responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from October 2020, Mr and Mrs W had their static caravan insured through an 
insurance intermediary. Tokio Marine was the insurance company that was responsible for 
dealing with any claim.
In late July and early August 2021, there was bad weather, and water damaged the ceiling of 
the caravan. Mr and Mr W made a claim on the policy. Tokio Marine declined the claim, 
saying that the damage had been caused by blocked guttering and the policy didnt cover it.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Tokio Marine that it should pay the claim. By a letter dated late 
September 2021, Tokio Marine offered to cover half of the costs of the interior damage. 
By a final response dated late November 2021, Tokio Marine referred to that offer and 
turned down the complaint. Unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us 
in December 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
offer made by Tokio Marine to cover half of the interior repair works was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He maintained the caravan and its gutters well.
There was heavy and incessant rainfall at the end of July/ August 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the policy terms, a repairers estimate dated early September 2021 and an 
assessors report later in September 2021.
The policy covered the caravan for damage caused by storm or flood.
Generally, I would expect a storm to involve wind speeds over 50 miles per hour and/or 
rainfall over 8 millimetres per hour. And I would expect a flood to involve a depth of standing 
or running water covering the ground.
I accept Mr and Mrs Ws evidence that there was incessant heavy rain.
But the weather records for July and August 2021 in the local area dont show enough wind 
or rain to qualify as a storm.
And theres no evidence that there was a flood.
So there was no storm or flood to cause the damage to the caravan. Therefore I dont find 
that Tokio Marine treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly by declining their claim.
It wasnt necessary for Tokio Marine to show what (other than a storm or flood) caused 
damage to the caravan. But from the repairers estimate and the assessors report, I find that 
rainwater had caused the damage. I accept that this was despite Mr Ws high standard of 
maintenance including clearing the gutters.
Tokio Marines letter dated late September 2021 contained an offer including some figures. 
And the final response referred to that offer as follows:
your claim was correctly declined. However, we are not totally unsympathetic to 
your situation and, as you know, we have made an offer (as a goodwill gesture) to 
cover 50% of the rectification costs for the internal damage to the caravan. This offer 
is made on what is known as an ex gratia, without prejudice basis without any 
admission of liability on our part.
As that was in its final response, I expect Tokio Marine to honour its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio Marine HCC to do any 
more in response to this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman