DRN-3842768
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with a claim under their buildings insurance policy for damage to their property caused by 
bad weather.
 
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mr W and Mrs Ws property suffered roof 
damage. They obtained an estimate from a local roofing company (W) to carry out repairs 
(£3,600) and engaged them to carry out the work, arranged for the following week. Ahead of 
the work, they then (through their broker) contacted RSA to report the damage and lodge a 
claim. RSA appointed a firm (B) to visit the property and validate the claim. As Mr W and Mrs 
W had already arranged for W to carry out the repairs, it was arranged for B to visit after the 
repairs had been carried out (to assess the damage)
W carried out repairs, but they didnt fix the roof, as subsequent rainfall led to water entering 
the property. They returned on two further occasions but couldnt identify why the repairs 
hadnt worked or fix the issues. They applied sealant, but this didnt prevent further rainwater 
entering the property. Mr W and Mrs W tried to contact W again, but they didnt respond.
B visited to inspect the damage. They also prepared a scope of the work they thought would 
have been necessary to repair the damage (at the rates RSAs contractors would have 
charged for the work). This totalled £1,755.
Given the issues with W, Mr W and Mrs W contacted another roofing company (TC) who 
inspected the roof and said W had put in place ridge tiles that (because of how water flowed 
over the roof) meant water was being trapped with no means of running off the roof. This 
meant water was finding its way into the property through cracks in some of the roof flashing. 
TC provided an estimate to fix the problems (£6,650). However, RSA declined to accept the 
second estimate, as the issue was the poor workmanship carried out by W. They said Mr W 
and Mrs W needed to get W to return to fix the problems with their repairs. 
Unhappy at RSAs position, Mr W and Mrs W complained to RSA over their handling of the 
claim, wanting them to cover the cost of the estimate from TC to fix the roof. 
In their final response, RSA partially upheld the complaint. They said B agreed to visit after 
W had visited to carry out the repairs  but they hadnt said the repairs should proceed. But if 
Mr W and Mrs W went ahead, they should take photographs of the roof prior to the repairs to 
help B validate the claim. RSA noted Bs settlement offer was in line with how the policy 
provided for claims to be settled. But given the issues raised by Mr W and Mrs W, they 
increased the settlement offer to £2,600. As W installed ridge tiles that werent previously 
part of the roof, RSA deducted the cost (£1,000) from the cost of the work carried out by W 
(£3,600) to arrive at their settlement figure.
On the repair estimate from TC, RSA said the policy conditions meant any loss or damage 
caused by poor or faulty workmanship or materials wasnt covered. So, RSA confirmed their 
decision not to cover the estimated cost of the repairs from TC. But they apologised for Mr W 
and Mrs W having to chase them for updates and not having calls returned as promised. 
Recognising the distress caused, RSA offered £100 compensation. 
Mr W and Mrs W then complained to this service. They said theyd had to use two different 
roofing companies, given the issues with W. In total theyd paid £10,100 for the roof to be 
repaired £3,600 to W and £6,500 (invoiced by TC for the work they completed). As RSA had 
only offered a settlement of £2,600 (plus £800 for internal damage) this meant theyd only be 
covered for some 20% of the cost. They thought RSAs assessment of the work needed to 
repair the roof was based on unrealistic assumptions about the cost of repair work. They 
also thought theyd been given approval from RSA (through their broker) to proceed with the 
repair work with W. They were also unhappy at the time taken to assess the claim and the 
way the claim was handled (particularly by B). They wanted RSA to pay for the estimate of 
the work provided by TC (as RSA recognised the need for a second company to carry out 
the repair work to a satisfactory standard).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, thinking RSA didnt need to take any further 
action. She thought RSA had acted fairly in deducting the cost of the ridge tiles installed by 
W, when revising their settlement offer. She also thought the work carried out by TC 
included elements that werent directly related to damage caused by the storm (the 
replacement of a whole flat roof) as well as the removal of ridge tiles installed by W. As Mr W 
and Mrs W had already appointed W to carry out repairs before they notified RSA of the 
incident, RSA werent able to engage their own contractors to carry out the work, so they 
had to settle the claim through a different route (a cash settlement). She also thought RSA 
couldnt be held responsible for the quality of the work carried out by W, nor have to cover 
the cost of the work from TC to put it right and repair the roof to a reasonable standard. She 
thought RSAs compensation offer fair and reasonable.
Mr W and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, they raised several points. 
First, they didnt think it reasonable to challenge the scope of work in TCs estimate, as they 
were a reputable firm that carried out the repairs properly. And theyd given RSA (and B) the 
opportunity to challenge TCs estimate, the cost and scope of work (but they hadnt). 
Second, had RSA been sent B round in reasonable time, there may have been a different 
outcome (using their own contractors). Given the roof was leaking, they thought it important 
(to avoid further damage) to have it repaired quickly. Thirdly, they thought Bs estimate as 
the basis for the initial settlement was unrealistic and unrepresentative of the cost of carrying 
out repairs, so it wasnt fair to use RSAs contractor rates to price the settlement. While they 
accepted RSA shouldnt be responsible for paying for two sets of repairs, it was their 
responsibility to pay a realistic cost to repair their roof to an appropriate standard. In their 
view, the sum offered wasnt adequate. Finally, they didnt think the £100 compensation was 
adequate, given they were substantially out of pocket (from having to pay for two repairs).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id want to say how sorry I am for the difficult situation Mr W and Mrs W are in. I can 
understand why, given the damage from the incident and having water coming in, they were 
anxious to have their roof repaired (so limiting further damage). I also recognise that  given 
what would have been a large demand for roofing contractors in the aftermath of Storm Eunice, given the extent of the damage and number of claims  it would have been difficult 
to engage a contractor at short notice. That the contractor they engaged (W) carried out 
repairs that not only didnt fix the roof (but made things worse) would have been very 
frustrating.  Ive borne this in mind when considering the case. But my role here is to decide 
whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mr W and Mrs W.
The main issues in Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint are, firstly, that RSA havent made a 
realistic settlement offer that reflects the costs theyve incurred in fixing their roof on a 
permanent basis. Including the scope of work used by TC to base their estimate. Secondly, 
because RSA couldnt visit in a reasonable period, they had to engage their own contractors 
rather than the option to use RSAs contractors. Thirdly, they dont think the compensation 
offered is adequate, given how much they are out of pocket from paying for two repairs.
RSA say theyve offered a settlement in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
using rates theyd obtain from their contractors (and increased the settlement to reflect the 
cost of Ws repairs, less an amount for unnecessary work). They also say the policy means 
they dont cover loss or damage caused by poor or faulty workmanship or materials.
Normally, in cases involving claims for storm damage, we consider three key issues:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
But in this case, there isnt a dispute about whether there was a storm (the incident date was 
that of Storm Eunice). Nor whether damage is consistent with that expected in a storm, or 
whether the storm was the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. RSA accepted the 
claim and offered a settlement. The issue is whether theyve offered a fair settlement. 
Coming back to the substantive issues, Ive first considered Mr W and Mrs W engaging W to 
carry out repairs. In making their complaint, Mr W and Mrs W say this was pre-approved by 
RSA. However, from the timeline theyve provided, together with the case notes from RSA, I 
dont think this was the case. Mr W and Mrs W engaged W before they told RSA (through 
their broker) of the incident. And listening to the call from the broker to B saying Mr W and 
Mrs W had arranged for W to visit (before Bs visit) B says its up to Mr W and Mrs W to 
decide to proceed with W, but theyd need to assess the claim. They also advise Mr W and 
Mrs W should take photographs of the damage, for B to use to assess the claim. 
In a separate call between Mr W and Mrs W and B, about the earliest date B could visit to 
inspect the damage, Mr W and Mrs W say theyve arranged for W to visit before B could 
visit, to carry out repairs. B advises Mr W and Mrs W to contact RSA. In neither call do RSA 
(or B) authorise the repairs. I think it was made clear (through the broker) that if Mr W and 
Mrs W proceeded, B would still (along with photographs) assess and validate the claim. 
Given this, I dont think RSA can be held responsible for the poor repair work carried out by 
W (including unnecessary work to install ridge tiles that made the issues worse). I recognise 
this left (and leaves) Mr W and Mrs W in a difficult position, having paid £3,600 (particularly 
as W havent responded to their concerns). I note Mr W and Mrs W pursued a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy against W but were advised a claim wouldnt meet the 
threshold for the likelihood of success to be covered under their policy.
Given the issues about the quality of Ws work, plus the fact water was still entering the 
property even after Ws attempts to fix the problem, I think it was understandable Mr W and 
Mrs W lost confidence in W and looked to engage a second contractor. Having done so,and forwarded the estimate (through their broker) for RSA (B) it was to be expected they would 
consider the estimate (in the context of the situation and what had happened). Having done 
so, they offered a cash settlement  initially based on the scope of work on Bs report and at 
their contractor rates (£1,734) then revised to £2,600 as part of their response to Mr W and 
Mrs Ws complaint. 
In their final response, RSA give two reasons to support their approach. First, the terms and 
conditions of the policy provide for them to limit a cash settlement to the cost theyd have 
incurred had they used their own contractors. The relevant policy condition is set out under 
the heading How we settle claims for buildings which states:
The amount we will pay where repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of:
The cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor or:
The cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from 
your nominated contractors.
Second, the terms and conditions provide that any loss damage caused by poor or faulty 
design, workmanship or materials is not covered. RSA refer to the following, under the 
heading Policy exclusions: 
Defective construction or design
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from 
poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
Taking the second condition first, in the context of the specific circumstances of the case, I 
think it excludes RSA from having to cover the cost of making good the defective repairs 
carried out by W, including any damage those repairs caused. So, this would include the 
cost of undoing what W had done (including any unnecessary work, the ridge tiles that 
werent needed). However, what the exclusion wouldnt cover, is what would have been 
repairing the damage caused by the storm itself.
This then comes back to the first condition. So, the cost of the work required to repair the 
damage (and only that damage) caused by the storm. This where RSA and Mr W and Mrs W 
disagree. RSA say they have acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in basing 
their settlement based on Bs scope of work, priced at their contractor rates. In this case, 
theyve offered a settlement based on the cost of Ws repair (less an amount for the 
unnecessary ridge tiles). Which would be the first of the two elements above. This is less 
than TCs estimate (which would be the second element of the above condition). Based on 
the wording of the condition, then as RSAs estimate is less than TCs estimate, then RSA 
have acted in line with the condition when making their settlement offer.
But having come to this conclusion, Ive also considered the points made by Mr W and Mrs 
W. They say, firstly, it isnt reasonable to challenge the scope of work in TCs estimate, as a 
reputable firm that carried out the repairs properly. And RSA (and B) had the opportunity to 
challenge TCs estimate, the cost and scope of work (but they hadnt). 
Ive thought about this point. RSA didnt accept they should cover TCs estimate, saying 
theyd offered a settlement in line with the policy terms and conditions (a cash settlement 
based on Bs scope of work at their contractor rates). But also because TCs estimate would 
(at least in part) include work to repair the damage caused by W (or undo the unnecessary 
work theyd carried out). And that TCs work involved replacing the roof, not just repairing it. 
RSA say this constitutes significant betterment (the term for when work is carried out that puts a policyholder in a better position than they were before the incident that gave rise to 
the damage). 
Having considered this issue, I agree with RSA. Theyve offered a settlement based on an 
assessment of what would have been required to repair the damage from the storm (not the 
unnecessary work by W or the damage theyd caused). Or betterment. And the policy 
enables them to do this. As work had already been carried out by W (and then subsequently 
by TC) then RSA didnt, in the circumstances of the case, have the option to use (and they 
may otherwise have had) to use their own contractors. 
And while their reasons for not accepting the cost of the work from TC didnt (in their final 
response) centre on the scope of work from TC, I dont think its unreasonable for them (as 
they set out in their case notes for the case and the complaint) to say TCs scope includes a 
significant element of betterment (as well as repairing/undoing work from W).
Mr W and Mrs Ws second point is that had RSA sent B round in reasonable time, there may 
have been a different outcome (using their own contractors). And, given the roof was 
leaking, they thought it important (to avoid further damage) to have it repaired quickly. I 
accept this might have been the case, but given the number of claims being dealt with in the 
aftermath of Storm Eunice, I dont think it was unreasonable for B not to be in a position to 
visit until 11 days after the incident (8 days after RSA were first notified of the incident). And 
Mr W and Mrs W had already engaged W to carry out the work before the first date B could 
attend. B made clear it would be for Mr W and Mrs W to decide to proceed with the repair 
(theyd already paid a 50% deposit from what Ive seen). But also, to take photographs to 
support B assessing the claim.
Mr W and Mrs Ws third point is that, Bs estimate as the basis for the initial settlement was 
unrealistic and unrepresentative of the cost of carrying out repairs, so it wasnt fair to use 
RSAs contractor rates to price the settlement. While they accept RSA shouldnt be 
responsible for paying for two sets of repairs, it was their responsibility to pay a realistic cost 
to repair their roof to an appropriate standard. Looking at the settlement offered by RSA, 
while it took the scope of work from Bs assessment, it was increased to match the estimate 
provided by W (less an element for the unnecessary ridge tiles). To that extent, the 
settlement offered was based on the estimate Mr W and Mrs W had obtained from W. I dont 
think thats unreasonable in the circumstances.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded RSA acted fairly and reasonably, in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, in making their [revised] settlement offer. And in declining to 
cover the cost of the work from TC.
On the question of compensation, RSA acknowledge issues with the handling of the claim 
and have apologised for Mr W and Mrs W having to chase them for updates and not having 
calls returned as promised. Theyve offered £100 compensation. Mr W and Mrs W say this 
isnt adequate, given they are substantially out of pocket (from having to pay for two repairs). 
I understand why they think this, but the purpose of compensation is to recognise distress 
and inconvenience where a business hasnt acted reasonably or fairly  it isnt to make up 
for what may have been financial loss from a claim (or to punish a business). Considering all 
the circumstances of the case, I think £100 for distress and inconvenience is reasonable, so 
I wont be asking RSA to increase the amount. I understand, pending the outcome of their 
complaint to this service, RSA havent paid the compensation theyve offered. Given my 
conclusion its a fair and reasonable figure, I expect them to now do so.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman