The complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms F was sold a single premium PPI policy with a personal loan she took out over twelve 
months in 1999. The policy provided cover for Ms F if she couldnt work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms F didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Fs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Ms F says she was sold the PPI over the phone, so Ive taken this to be the case. 
Nationwide doesnt have a recording of the phone call when this PPI sale took place - that 
isnt particularly surprising given the amount of time thats now passed since then. But based 
on what we know about Nationwides phone sales at around this time, I think its more likely 
than not that the optional nature of the PPI would have been made clear to Ms F during the 
call.
Following the call, the loan agreement would have been produced and sent to Ms F for 
signing. Nationwide has provided a copy of Ms Fs loan agreement and I can see that the 
cost of the PPI is clearly shown as Optional Credit Insurance  on the agreement. This cost 
is set out separately to the loan amount she was borrowing. And I think Ms F would have 
queried why she was being charged for an optional PPI policy if she hadnt agreed to take it.
So I think Ms F would have realised that she had a choice about whether or not to buy the 
PPI and actively decided to do so. But I can understand why she may not be able to 
remember this now, as memories of such things do tend to fade with time.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Ms F. This means it didnt need to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for her circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure that 
Ms F was given clear enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted 
DRN-1599086to buy it.  I think its possible the information Nationwide gave her about the policy might not 
have been as good as it could have been. But from what I know about her circumstances at 
the time, I dont think better information would have changed her mind about buying it. I say 
this because:
Ms F appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions or limitations.
Ms F says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer. But the PPI
policy would have paid out in addition to this and, potentially for longer than the sick
pay would have lasted in full. And Ms F chose to take PPI, so it seems she was
interested in this type of protection. So I think she would have valued the extra
protection the policy gave her  specifically covering her remaining loan repayments
if she wasnt able to work.
Ive no real reason to think the PPI was unaffordable for Ms F. And its cost was
shown on the loan agreement  including the amount of the premium; the interest
payable on the premium, and the total cost. So I think Ms F would have understood
how much the PPI would cost her.
The policy was reasonably flexible and Ms F would have got a proportionate refund
of the single premium shed paid if she cancelled the policy early.
So I dont think that Ms F lost out by anything that Nationwide did wrong when it sold her the 
policy. 
Ive thought about why Ms Fs representative still thinks the policy was mis-sold to her, but 
this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding her complaint. I still think she would have 
thought the policy gave her useful protection at an affordable cost.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman