DRN-2984084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 January 2020, Mr and Mrs C bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker, which was insured by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Cs policy covered a trip theyd 
planned to take abroad between 22 March and 22 April 2020. On 13 March 2020, they 
added optional travel disruption cover. The policy cost Mr and Mrs C £1012.77 for the basic 
level of single trip insurance cover and included cover for nine medical conditions. The 
premium also included a discount of £51.64.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 23 March 2020 Mr C got in touch with his broker to 
cancel the policy. Thats because the travel provider intended to reschedule Mr and Mrs Cs 
trip dates, so they didnt know when theyd be able to travel. Mr and Mrs C wanted a cash 
refund of their policy premium. 
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs C a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them a pro-rata 
credit voucher for the portion of unused cover (excluding the premium theyd paid for travel 
disruption), which could be put towards another policy; which would be valid for 36 months. 
Its total pro-rata voucher offer was £270.90
While Mr and Mrs C accepted the voucher, they werent happy with Great Lakes offer and 
they asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. She set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. She felt it was fair 
for Great Lakes to retain the premiums for the time it was covering Mr and Mrs C.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs C a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 
months and which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt 
think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes 
needed to pay Mr and Mrs C a cash refund of their premium.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and they asked for the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
Our investigator subsequently asked Great Lakes to reconsider its offer. As Great Lakes had 
no longer been on risk under the travel disruption cover following the cancellation of the 
policy, she felt it would be fair and reasonable for it to also include a pro-rata refund amount 
of the premium Mr and Mrs C had paid for this add-on. And she explained that she felt Great 
Lakes should calculate the offer due to Mr and Mrs C by dividing the actual price theyd paid 
for the policy by the total cover length, multiplied by the days not on risk.
Great Lakes agreed and recalculated the voucher offer available to Mr and Mrs C. The credit 
voucher refund offer is now £324.65.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes current offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs C took out have a cooling off 
period of 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. 
This is called the right to cancel. Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional 
cancellation rights voluntarily, as long as these are on terms which are at least as favourable 
to the consumer, unless the differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 sets out payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event that 
a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says: In most cases, the FCA would expect the 
proportion of a policys exposure that relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata 
apportionment. However, where there is material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an 
insurer could use a more accurate method. The sum should be reasonable and should not 
exceed an amount commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. They cancelled their 
policy around two and a half months after itd been taken out. And, under the industry rules 
Ive set out above, even if Mr and Mrs C had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they still 
wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium they paid. I say this because 
Great Lakes covered the risk of them needing to cancel their trip for reasons that were 
covered under the policy during that time, such as ill health. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs insurance policy with Great Lakes set out their 
contractual cancellation rights. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation rights under the policy are more favourable to them than is 
required by industry rules. But as Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs Cs policy was cancelled 
more than 14 days after they took out the policy. Thats because they took out the policy on 
14 January 2020 and it wasnt cancelled until 23 March 2020. 
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances Great Lakes has set out are 
policyholder-specific  such as bereavement or a change in their medical conditions. I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic to be exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. This means that on a strict interpretation of the 
contract with Great Lakes, I dont think Mr and Mrs C are entitled to any refund of premiums.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I understand that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was unforeseen 
and outside of their control, Mr and Mrs Cs holiday plans changed. This meant they no 
longer had a need for their single trip policy to cover their specific trip dates. So Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of the policy because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
The pandemic wasnt foreseen or anticipated by either party to the contract. However, 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Cs contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  cancellation cover began on the day they took out the policy. So the price Great 
Lakes charged Mr and Mrs C also covered them for cancellation cover from 14 January 
2020. This means the premium Mr and Mrs C paid covered the risk of them having to cancel 
their holiday for one of the reasons the policy covered. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs C making a successful claim on the policy 
from 14 January 2021 until their policy was cancelled on 23 March 2020. While Mr and Mrs 
Cs holiday plans changed, it seems that their travel provider planned to change their holiday 
dates. So I think it was open to Mr and Mrs C to ask about changing their policy cover dates 
once they knew when the rescheduled dates were likely to be.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had started bearing the risk of 
a claim for however short a time  the premium a policyholders paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the policy was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk 
under Mr and Mrs Cs insurance policy, including under the travel disruption cover. Mr and 
Mrs C werent travelling by this point and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to any 
cancelled holiday or under the optional add-on cover. Great Lakes was therefore no longer 
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. In the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, I currently think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
calculate the pro-rata refund of the policy premium, inclusive of the travel disruption 
extension from the date the policy was cancelled on 23 March 2020. 
Im also satisfied that the fair way for Great Lakes to calculate the pro-rata refund due is (in 
simple terms), by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in 
days) multiplied by days not on risk.How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Cs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs reasons for cancelling their policy, it was their choice to 
do so. Mr and Mrs C entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for 
Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a 
refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a 
future date. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Great Lakes should pay a pro-
rata monetary refund to Mr and Mrs C. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and 
limitations attached to that voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary 
refund in the circumstances. The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid until 23 
March 2023 and it can be used to buy a future travel insurance policy and put towards any 
future holidays. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs C feel that the voucher isnt suitable for them, because they 
say they dont want to use the broker again. But I do think the voucher gives them some 
flexibility as to how its used and I think they have a reasonable timeframe to make use of it. 
This means I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive. So it 
follows that I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it 
charges taking into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment 
of the likelihood of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its 
customers fairly. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or singled them out in any way. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Cs unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs C paid for this policy was for a period of 
100 days from 14 January until 22 April 2020. The value of the voucher which Great Lakes 
has offered to Mr and Mrs C is equal to 31 unused days of cover for the base policy from 23 
March 2020 until the planned end date of the trip on 22 April 2020 and 31 days of unused 
cover for the travel disruption cover.
Ive checked the calculation Great Lakes has provided and it seems its now calculated the 
offer fairly. And as Ive explained, in this particular case, given it seems the trip itself was 
likely to be rescheduled by the provider when Mr and Mrs C cancelled the policy, I think its 
fair here for Great Lakes to calculate the refund from the date of policy cancellation. 
Overall, I think Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. So Im not planning to 
tell Great Lakes to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE Great Lakes to calculate the pro-rata refund due in simple 
terms, by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) 
multiplied by days not on risk. Great Lakes has now calculated the credit voucher refund 
offer due to be £324.65.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman