DRN-3361907
The complaint
Mr M and Ms R have complained that Argo Direct Limited (ADL) refused to renew their
buildings insurance policy and continue to provide cover for the risk of damage being caused
to their property by subsidence. Theyve also complained that ADL havent acted in line with
the Association of British Insurers (ABIs) guidance on the continuation of cover in
subsidence claims, by finding them another insurer who would offer that cover.
What happened
On 16 February 2022, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Heres what I said: 
What happened
Mr M and Ms R purchased a buildings insurance policy from a broker who Ill call, P, 
which appeared to be underwritten by ADL and was effective from 
14 September 2019. In October 2019, Mr M and Ms R noticed cracking had 
appeared in the new plaster in their kitchen. They also noticed some external 
cracking. 
After removing some of the internal plaster, cracking in the masonry became 
apparent, and Mr M submitted a claim for subsidence. After investigations were 
carried out it was established that the cracking was due to clay shrinkage 
exacerbated by the moisture extraction influence of the surrounding vegetation, 
including a pear tree, which was removed in February 2021.
Shortly before Mr M and Ms Rs policy was due to renew, in September 2020, they 
were told that ADL would not be able to continue providing cover for their property. 
Since that time, theyve been unable to obtain insurance for their property that 
includes subsidence cover. 
Ive issued a decision on Mr M and Ms Rs complaint about a different business who 
Ill refer to as G, in relation to their concerns regarding the renewal, on the same date 
as this provisional decision. I therefore wont be addressing their concerns about Gs 
actions, in this decision.
Mr M and Ms R brought their complaint to our service in November 2020. Our 
investigator looked into their concerns and issued a view upholding the complaint on 
12 February 2021. In summary, our investigator said that good industry practice 
would require ADL, despite not being a member of the ABI, to provide continuous 
subsidence cover to Mr M and Ms R, as subsidence occurred at their property while it 
was insured by ADL. She concluded that ADL needed to continue to provide Mr M 
and Ms Rs property with cover for damage caused by subsidence, and in addition 
should pay them £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
caused.
ADL responded in detail to the view. In summary, they said:
At the end of May 2020, theyd taken the decision to no longer underwrite 
insurance for this type of household insurance in the UK.
At the end of December 2020, the platform theyd used to underwrite all UK 
business ceased to underwrite any business.
Consequently, it wasnt possible for ADL to provide Mr M and Ms R with 
subsidence cover for their property.
However, they were willing to pay Mr M and Ms R compensation of £250, in 
recognition that ADLs decision to no longer underwrite household insurance 
in the UK has caused them some prejudice, through no fault of their own.
They felt that although Mr M and Ms R werent offered a policy by the new 
insurer that included subsidence cover, due to the existing subsidence claim, 
household cover with subsidence is available in the Market with other 
insurance companies.
Although they cant comment on what the premium would have been for the 
subsidence cover, as they no longer offer it, from their general searches they 
believe certain insurers provide such cover and the annual premium might 
have been in the region of £250, which is why they have suggested that figure 
as increased compensation to Mr M.
A second view was issued by our investigator on 29 March 2021 in which she 
explained that because ADL had stopped offering this type of policy and no longer 
write business in the UK it wouldnt have been fair to ask them to place Mr M and 
Ms R back on cover. She also said that she thought that when the renewal came up 
Mr M and Ms R would have been able to seek alternative cover elsewhere. She 
concluded that Argos offer of £250 compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M and Ms R didnt agree with our investigators view. In response they said:
The broker who sold them a new policy on renewal advised them that the new 
insurer hadnt included cover for subsidence in part because there was a 
subsidence claim at the property.
Theyre concerned that theyve been left in a very difficult situation, because, 
in the event a further subsidence event happened they wouldnt be covered.
Despite contacting several different insurance brokers theyve been unable to 
secure cover for subsidence and have been told it could be 10-15 years after 
the current claim has been settled, before they can get cover for subsidence.
ADL have failed to provide continuous cover as required by the ABI.
The sum of £250 offered, doesnt make up for the failure to insure, although it 
goes some way towards recognising the stress this has caused them.
Theyve been inconvenienced and are still being inconvenienced by ADL as 
they cant get subsidence cover. In failing to pass them to a new insurer, that 
provided a like for like policy, ADL has caused them significant stress.
Theyre therefore asking for a realistic compensation for the inconvenience 
theyve suffered, and are likely to continue to suffer, as each month quotes have to be requested.
In considering my provisional decision on this complaint, I requested additional 
information from the parties. I asked ADL to provide some additional information on 
their decision to leave the UK market. And I asked Mr M to provide some additional 
information about the likely increase in premium hed be required to pay, in order to 
obtain subsidence cover for the property.
ADL then clarified that they are not the insurer whod underwritten Mr M and Ms Rs 
policy. They provided a copy of an agreement to show they act as a coverholder for a 
parent company who Ill refer to as AG. That means they are able to commit their 
parent company (which is based outside of the UK) to provide insurance cover in 
specific circumstances, as set out in the agreement between them.
Mr M confirmed that while repair works on the property remain outstanding, the 
subsidence claim was settled on 16 January 2022, and the certificate of structural 
adequacy was issued on 25 January 2022. However, after approaching a further four 
brokers, he said he was still unable to obtain a quote for insurance that included 
subsidence cover and was informed that the certificate of structural adequacy would 
need to have been issued for at least 12 months before any such quote could be 
provided. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Ms R have suffered damage to their property which has been caused by 
subsidence. As is commonly the case, they have found it difficult to get insurance for 
subsidence, particularly given that their original insurer has withdrawn from the UK 
market. 
The ABI has issued guidance on Continuation of Cover to ensure that consumers 
with previous or current subsidence claims can continue accessing subsidence cover 
on reasonable terms. The guidance was issued to assist consumers in similar 
circumstances to those that Mr M and Ms R currently face.
However, Mr M and Ms Rs insurer was not a member of the ABI and therefore 
wasnt bound to adhere to the ABI guidance. In addition, their insurer said that even it 
if were possible for them to renew Mr M and Ms Rs cover (in the event that theyd 
not decided to exit the UK market) it would have been with subsidence excluded. 
They said that any subsidence cover offered would be at a higher premium and 
would likely affect the policy excess.
While I appreciate the reasons for their insurers position, that position is not 
consistent with the approach this service takes when considering continuation of 
cover where subsidence claims are ongoing. Ill explain why.
Even where an insurer hasnt signed up to the ABI guidance, we think the guidance 
is indicative of good industry practice, so would usually conclude it was fair and 
reasonable for the insurer to follow the guidance on that basis.
We accept that insurers are entitled to withdraw from the market. However, its our 
role to consider whether affected consumers, such as Mr M and Ms R have been 
treated fairly. Their insurers decision to withdraw from the UK market and to not offer subsidence cover has clearly made it difficult for Mr M and Ms R to find cover with 
another insurer given the subsidence claim. Although their insurer was no longer in a 
position to continue to insure Mr M and Ms R, they could have taken steps to try and 
arrange with another insurer to take over the policy and price the policy as a renewal 
rather than a new customer. Or, if that wasnt possible, they could have offered to 
pay for any additional cost between the existing policy and a policy provided 
elsewhere by a specialist insurer which allows Mr M and Ms R to get continued 
subsidence cover on reasonable terms. 
ADL have accepted that their decision to leave the UK market has caused Mr M and 
Ms R prejudice. Theyve offered Mr M and Ms R £250 to compensate them for that. 
However, Mr M feels significantly more compensation is due to them. 
Ive considered ADLs offer of compensation, and the situation that Mr M and Ms R 
find themselves in. As our investigator explained, the fact that ADL no longer operate 
in the UK does limit the actions I can require them to take, to place Mr M and Ms R in 
the position theyd have been in if the ABI guidance had been followed, as our 
investigator has already explained. 
In addition, a further complexity has arisen which makes it more difficult for this 
service to provide Mr M and Ms R with a satisfactory resolution to their complaint. In 
response to our request for additional information about their exit from the UK 
market, it has come to light that ADL are in fact not the insurer of Mr M and Ms Rs 
policy. Their parent company, AG, based outside of the UK, is in fact the insurer. 
The agreement between ADL and AG that Ive seen sets out their respective roles 
and responsibilities. In brief, AG as the insurer, takes on the risk and provides the 
cover for the insurance policies that ADL, as the coverholder and agent of AG, enters 
into on its behalf. This means that ADL is an insurance intermediary, and in this case 
the insurers agent. So, AG will be responsible for any actions ADL have taken on its 
behalf. Unfortunately, though, as AG are based outside of the UK, this service 
doesnt have any power to require it to take any steps in relation to Mr M and Ms Rs 
complaint.
Insurers are free to delegate their authority to intermediaries and permit them to bind 
the insurer to cover certain risks. However, once an intermediary becomes involved 
in the sale and administration of a policy of insurance, they will owe a number of 
duties to the policyholders. The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) details the responsibilities of insurance 
intermediaries, which includes a responsibility to provide the customer with 
information about its identity and whether it is an intermediary or an insurer. Ive only 
been provided with limited documentation from the time of the sale of the buildings 
insurance policy to Mr M and Ms R in 2019. But from the evidence I have seen, I 
think clearer information could have been provided to Mr M and Ms R about ADLs 
role in relation to insuring their property. 
The policy terms and conditions define We/Our/Us as the insurer specified in your 
insurance schedule. The insurance schedule issued by the broker, P, says: If 
youve selected Buildings..cover..The insurance for these covers are 
underwritten by Argo Direct Limited. So, Mr M and Ms R have been under the 
impression that ADL is the insurer whod underwritten their policy, and as a result 
they would be able to obtain a resolution to their complaint about not being able to 
renew their buildings policy and obtain continued cover for subsidence, from this 
service. Mr M and Ms R have suffered a significant level of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of AGs decision to withdraw from the UK Market. But Im unable to hold ADL 
responsible for the actions of AG.
That having been said, I think that if Mr M and Ms R had been given clearer 
information about ADLs role and responsibilities, the level of distress and 
inconvenience theyve suffered, as a result of all of the issues, wouldnt have been as 
substantial. The complexities of this complaint have made it a difficult case to decide, 
particularly as Im restricted to only being able to consider the impact ADLs actions 
have had on Mr M and Ms R. 
I concluded by saying that as ADL is authorised in its own right to carry out acts as an 
insurance intermediary, it is against ADL in that capacity, that I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint and make an award of compensation. Taking everything into account I 
said I was minded to uphold this complaint in part and require ADL to pay Mr M and Ms R 
£500 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience theyve suffered as a result of 
ADLs actions.
Mr M and Ms R made the following two points in response to the provisional decision:
It's very disappointing for them that ADL and AG (the underwriter) have not been 
very clear on their terms and conditions and effectively disempowered their ability to 
seek a meaningful resolution of their complaint from this service. They feel that ADL 
havent been honest with them and were hoping to receive a complete resolution to 
their complaint, by bringing it to our service, which they now realise wont be 
possible.
Mr M clarified that the dates hed provided, regarding the settlement of the claim and 
a certificate of structural adequacy being issued, were hypothetical dates that he 
provided to various brokers to try and obtain quotations for buildings insurance for 
the property, which included subsidence cover. In fact, the works have not yet 
started, and no confirmation has been received from Argo Direct, as to whether a 
certificate of structural adequacy will be provided at the conclusion of the repair 
works. 
After receiving that clarification from Mr M, I contacted ADL to explain the error in the 
provisional decision and ask for confirmation of when the works will start and whether a 
certificate of structural adequacy will be provided on conclusion of the works. 
ADL confirmed their earlier advice that AG had withdrawn from the UK property insurance 
market. They said that, in any case, there is no duty on an insurer to renew a policy, in the 
absence of an undertaking to do so. Also, as AG, the underwriter, is situated in Malta, it is 
the Office of the Arbiter for Financial Services who are able to consider a complaint against 
AG.
With regard to Mr M and Ms Rs open subsidence claim, although this service doesnt have 
jurisdiction over the underwriter, ADL said they will ensure their obligations are fully 
completed under the policy, in relation to getting the damage repaired. ADL, having made 
some independent enquiries of a broker, also remained of the view that once the repairs had 
been completed, Mr M and Ms R would be able to again obtain subsidence cover for their 
property. 
Ive taken account of these further comments in making my final decision on this complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to apologise to Mr M for misunderstanding the information hed provided, 
regarding the hypothetical settlement of his claim. 
Ive considered the additional points Mr M and Ms R have made, and while I have sympathy 
for the situation they find themselves in, the additional points made havent led me to come 
to a different decision on the complaint. In addition, as ADL havent provided any comments 
which challenge the findings included in the provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I therefore uphold this complaint and require ADL to pay the compensation detailed below.
Putting things right
I require Argo Direct Limited to pay Mr M and Ms R £500 to compensate them for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve suffered as a result of Argo Direct Limiteds actions. 
I make no other award against Argo Direct Limited. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Argo Direct Limited to pay 
the award detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman