DRN-4438838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer) didnt fully settle their travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Chaucer includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 21 September 2021. 
The policy started on 10 October 2021 and expired on 9 October 2022. The policy was 
underwritten by Chaucer.
Mr and Mrs R booked to go on a 12-day coach trip starting on 26 September 2022 and 
returning on 7 October 2022. On day 2  27 September 2022 - of their trip, Mrs R was 
unwell. She tested positive for Covid-19. Mr and Mrs R were refused onto the coach and 
were asked to stay in the hotel and to contact their travel insurance company. They 
remained at the hotel for seven days and were repatriated to the UK by Chaucer. 
Upon their return, Mr and Mrs R submitted a claim on their travel insurance policy. Chaucer 
assessed the claim. It settled their claim for medical and other expenses for £359.34. It also 
partly settled their claim for the loss they incurred for the cost of their holiday  Chaucer paid 
£1,509 for this  only up to the period they were in confinement, which was six days. It didnt 
cover the cost for their food and drink, and it didnt cover the remaining part of their trip, 
which they couldnt go on. Mr and Mrs R made a complaint to Chaucer who stood by its 
decision not to fully settle their claim. It said no other sections of Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms 
and conditions apply in the circumstances of what happened. 
Unhappy with Chaucers final response, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said given that Chaucer has 
paid some of Mr and Mrs Rs costs under confinement, she concluded that their holiday had 
effectively been curtailed. She recommended that Chaucer settles Mr and Mrs Rs claim for 
the remaining days of their trip, in line with the Cancellation or Curtailment/Loss of Holiday 
section of their policy and add 8% simple interest per annum, one month from the date of the 
claim to the date of payment.
Chaucer didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
In summary, Chaucer said the definition of curtailment is cutting your planned trip short by 
returning early to your home or admission to hospital as an inpatient where the benefit of the 
accommodation booked is lost. Its not fair to ask Chaucer to pay for the claim which is 
outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
On page 7 of the policy terms and conditions, under section 1 states:
Section 1 
Cancellation or Curtailment/Loss of Holiday
You are covered up to the amount shown in the Benefits Schedule applicable to 
Your chosen Level of cover shown on Your Policy certificate for the pro-rata costs 
of the unused travel and accommodation costs (including unused pre-booked 
excursion up to a value of £100) that have been paid or where there is a contract 
to pay that cannot be recovered from anywhere else if the cancellation or 
Curtailment of Your Trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result of the 
following:
a. You dying or You suffering Accidental Bodily Injury, or You testing positive for 
Coronavirus within 14 days of Your Trip departure date, or You being 
admitted to hospital due to testing positive for Coronavirus since You 
purchased Your policy or You suffering an unexpected Illness.
Further down in this same section, it states:
Under a. above, this cover extends to include the Loss of Holiday, where applicable, 
for a period in excess of 24 hours.
 Loss of Holiday is defined in the policy terms and conditions as:
Loss of holiday means the number of days You are confined to a hospital, hotel 
room or cabin on Your treating doctors orders and are unable to participate in Your 
planned Trip, due to death, serious injury or Illness.
Chaucer hasnt disputed that an insured event occurred. That is, a medically approved 
positive Covid-19 test result and the requirement for Mrs R to isolate. Chaucer paid for 
medical expenses and other expenses and arranged for Mr and Mrs R to return home after 
the isolation period had finished on 4 October 2023. So, its accepted that a claim is payable 
because of an unexpected illness. Chaucer therefore paid for six days which was the period 
Mr and Mrs R were in isolation. And for the remaining days of the trip, which they didnt get 
to go on, Chaucer referred Mr and Mrs R to their travel provider to recover the cost. 
However, their travel provider has confirmed that there is no refund available for this.
Under Mr and Mrs Rs travel policy, curtailments costs mean: travel costs necessary to 
return you home before the booked return date and a pro-rata amount representing the total 
pre-paid or contracted costs of accommodation, car hire and excursions attributable to each 
complete day which is not spent overseas.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Rs trip was curtailed, and holiday lost, by an insured event 
because straight after the isolation period, they were repatriated due to having suffered an 
unexpected illness. I understand that Chaucer objects to paying for the lost holiday because it says curtailment 
means cutting your planned trip short by early return to your home country. I appreciate this 
but Mr and Mrs R were returned to the UK as soon as possible and when they were allowed 
to do so. 
While I appreciate that Chaucer say the cost of the remaining part of the trip, following 
isolation, isnt covered under their travel policy, I need to consider whether thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of what happened here. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Rs coach trip itinerary. The trip was a round trip going through 
three countries and not based in one place. By the time Mr and Mrs R had completed the 
isolation period, the trip had moved on and it wouldnt have been possible for them to re-join 
the trip. My understanding is that the option to re-join wasnt explored and they were 
repatriated to the UK. It also wouldnt have been reasonable for them to have done so at this 
point as it would have meant they had to travel to a different country. And, from the 
information available, Chaucer arranged for their repatriation following the isolation period. 
Additionally, based on evidence available, the travel provider refused Mr and Mrs R to get 
onto the coach when it became aware that Mrs R had Covid-19 and therefore, their trip had 
been curtailed from day 2 onwards. 
While I understand that Chaucer thinks Mr and Mrs R have no cover for the remaining days 
of the trip and asked them to contact their travel provider for a refund, from the information 
available, the travel provider confirmed there was no refund due.
Im satisfied therefore, based on what Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs Rs trip was curtailed from 
27 September 2022.  Although they didnt return home at this point, this was because they 
were confined to their room in isolation and could only return home when the isolation period 
ended. They had paid for the trip and due to testing positive for Covid-19, they were in 
isolation from day 2 to day 8 of their trip. The curtailment claim has stemmed from the 
unexpected illness. So, I think their trip had been curtailed from the second day  
27 September 2022. I accept that they had recovered following the isolation period, but by 
that time, the trip had moved on to another country. And I also accept that had they chosen 
to stay in that same country, then cover wouldnt be available. But Mr and Mrs R returned 
home and lost the rest of their trip because of the unexpected illness. 
It follows that I dont think its fair or reasonable for Chaucer to decline part of Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim on the basis that their trip was curtailed on the date they returned to the UK. So, I 
direct Chaucer to deal with the balance of Mr and Mrs Rs claim under the curtailment/loss of 
holiday provisions of their travel policy, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
Putting things right
Chaucer should do the following to put things right:
Chaucer should reassess Mr and Mrs Rs curtailment claim on the basis that their trip 
was curtailed on 27 September 2022, subject to the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy and taking into account the payment it has already made. 
Chaucer should also add 8% simple interest, per annum, one month from the date of 
the claim to the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about Chaucer Insurance 
Company Designated Activity Company. It should now take the steps as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman