DRN-3079356
The complaint
The estate of Mr L complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) unfairly asked for a 
Grant of Probate to release Mr Ls premium bond funds. Mr Ls estate is represented by his 
wife, Mrs L. She is represented by her son, but to keep things simple Ill refer only to Mrs L.  
What happened
Mr L sadly passed away in August 2020. Mrs L contacted NS&I to inform it and ask it to 
release the premium bond funds it held for Mr L  these totalled £34,000. But NS&I asked for 
a Grant of Probate before it would release them.
Mrs L thought NS&I was insensitive and placing unnecessary obstacles in the way, as she 
said a Grant of Probate would cost £500 and wasnt needed since other financial businesses 
hadnt asked for it. She said NS&I hadnt mentioned a Grant of Probate when she contacted 
it online about Mr Ls account. She wanted NS&I to accept Mr Ls will and death certificate 
as sufficient to release the funds, and to send her flowers as an apology.
In response, NS&I said it was bound by Probate laws and reserved the right to ask for a 
Grant of Probate. 
Mrs L brought this complaint to our service. She thought a Grant of Probate wasnt required 
by law but was something NS&I was choosing to ask for, and suggested NS&I was 
discriminating against her because of her age and vulnerability. And said it had been 
impossible to contact anyone at NS&Is customer services department to send Mr Ls death 
certificate to. 
Our service explained we needed the Grant of Probate in order to consider the merits of this 
complaint. Mrs L obtained the Grant of Probate and provided this to our service and NS&I, 
which released Mr Ls funds. But Mrs L thought NS&I hadnt been clear enough about its 
customers needing a Grant of Probate, and had caused a twelve month delay. 
NS&I said it hadnt caused any delays, because it needed the Grant of Probate, which Mrs L 
didnt have. And that when it received the Grant of Probate, it processed the payment soon 
after. NS&I explained its customer agreement doesnt mention Grant of Probate because its 
not required in every case. But that its website and notification of death of a holder form 
says it may ask for a Grant of Probate.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said NS&I made available information 
about when a Grant of Probate may become relevant, that NS&I was reasonable to ask for a 
Grant of Probate in this case, and that it hadnt caused any delays. 
Mrs L disagreed, saying NS&I was misleading to say it may require a Grant of Probate, as it 
always asked for one where the amount was over £5,000. Mrs L wanted NS&I to change this 
wording, as she thought media articles showed this had caused its customers unnecessary 
upset over many years. 
But our investigator didnt change her view and explained our service could only look at 
individual complaints. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about Mr L passing away and to give my 
condolences to his family. Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Ls health difficulties too. I realise this 
must be an extremely difficult and upsetting time for her and her family. 
I should be clear that the role of our service is to investigate individual complaints. And its 
not our role to tell financial businesses what their processes should be. So in this decision, 
Im not considering the other customers Mrs L is concerned about. Nor can I tell NS&I to 
change its wording as Mrs L would like. Instead, its my role to consider whether NS&I has 
treated Mr Ls estate fairly and reasonably regarding the Grant of Probate. And Im satisfied 
it has. Ill explain why.
A Grant of Probate confirms who is authorised to legally administer Mr Ls estate, in 
accordance with the terms of his will. And NS&I was being asked to release £34,000, a 
significant sum of money and more than the £5,000 over which I can see NS&Is processes 
says it may ask for Grant of Probate. So I think it was reasonable for NS&I to ask for a Grant 
of Probate here, in order to be sure it was releasing Mr Ls funds to the right person. I 
appreciate other businesses may not have asked Mrs L for this, but other businesses may 
operate differently. 
I can see Grant of Probate isnt mentioned in the NS&I agreement form, but I dont think its 
relevant at that point. And I can see it wasnt mentioned in the online chat Mrs L had with 
NS&I in August 2020. But I dont think it was relevant then either as Mrs L wasnt asking 
about how to claim back Mr Ls premium bond funds  instead she said Mr L had passed 
away and she wanted to keep his bonds in for twelve months, but didnt know when prizes 
would be paid. However, NS&Is website and its notification of death of a holder form, 
which Mrs L completed in August 2020, say a Grant of Probate may be needed. And in its 
letters to Mrs L on 9 September 2020 and 3 October 2020, NS&I made clear it was asking 
her for a Grant of Probate before it would continue. Therefore, Im satisfied NS&I made it 
reasonably clear that it needed a Grant of Probate in this case
Im also satisfied NS&I hasnt caused any unnecessary delays here. As I say, it was 
reasonable for NS&I to ask for the Grant of Probate. It says it received this on 
10 October 2020, and a screenshot of its system shows it processed the payment on 
23 October 2020, which I think is within a reasonable time. So I cant agree that NS&I 
caused twelve months of unnecessary delay, as Mrs L suggests.
I know Mrs L has also suggested NS&I discriminated against her because of her age and 
vulnerability. But Ive seen no evidence those were the reasons why it asked for a Grant of 
Probate, or why it wouldnt release Mr Ls funds without it. Instead, NS&I asked for a Grant 
of Probate before releasing Mr Ls funds in order to ensure they were being paid to the 
person with the appropriate legal authority, in line with its processes.
 
Though not the crux of this complaint, I note Mrs L told us it was impossible to contact 
anyone at NS&I customer services to provide Mr Ls death certificate. But Ive seen Mrs L 
was able to contact NS&I to make a claim and have an online chat. And that she was later able to complain about NS&I, following which its customer services department was in direct 
contact with her. So even if I were to accept there was a time Mrs L couldnt contact NS&I 
customer services, I dont think this caused any detriment. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Mrs L, but I havent found NS&I made a mistake or 
acted unfairly when it asked for a Grant of Probate in this case. Therefore, Im not telling it to 
do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman