DRN-1672744
 
The complaint
Mrs Bs complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund any of the 
commission it received from her PPI premiums for the policy that she took out in 2009 to 
cover her mortgage. 
What happened
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt think a refund was due.
Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued 
some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. To put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need 
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would still need to be covered by the Consumer Credit 
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004, the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage  such as a 
further advance or interest rate switch. Different lenders took different approaches to this. 
Mrs B took out her mortgage in 2003. From the information Halifax has provided, Mrs B took 
out a further advance in 2006. Halifax has told us the entire mortgage became regulated at 
that point. Based on what weve seen and what we know about how Halifax arranged this 
further borrowing, Im satisfied that Mrs Bs mortgage did become regulated.
As Mrs Bs mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act. This means the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with their 
mortgage.
I note Mrs Bs argument that she tried to claim on the PPI a few years ago and was unhappy 
with the response she got. And that she believes Halifax probably got a high level of 
commission for selling the PPI. But that doesnt change my mind about her mortgage 
becoming regulated, meaning the FCAs provisions regarding commission dont apply here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman