DRN-3243521
The complaint
Mrs G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled her roadside assistance 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include its roadside assistance provider and others insofar as I hold 
UKI responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs G went online and took out a roadside assistance policy. UKI was 
responsible for dealing with claims. The policy renewed automatically in November 2020 for 
the following twelve months.
In August 2021, believing that the policy included up to 90 days European cover, Mrs G 
travelled to continental Europe in a campervan. Unfortunately it broke down. Mrs G 
contacted UKI for help. UKI said the policy didnt include European cover.
In late September 2021, Mrs G complained to UKI that its policy documents were 
misleading. By a final response dated October 2021, UKI turned down the complaint. Mrs G 
brought her complaint to us in mid-November 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator  
didnt think that UKI had acted unfairly.
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators  opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The document headed "Breakdown Cover is totally misleading. It is unrealistic and 
unreasonable to expect a member of the public to go through each and every line of 
this document. The reader's attention is immediately drawn to the coloured icons 
containing what she reasonably believed to be a summary of "What is insured and 
what is not". The reader cannot be expected to make a forensic examination of the 
document and, indeed, is encouraged not to by the coloured icons supposedly 
setting out clearly what is covered.
The document's only purpose is to clarify what is covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The document headed "Breakdown Cover"  is an Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID). The page with that heading must be the first page. But - unhelpfully- none of the 
pages is numbered.
At the top of one of the other pages, there is a question and answer section including the 
following:
What is insured?
Europlus
includes Recovery Plus
As well as cover in the UK, up to 90 days cover in Europe per policy terms 
includes:
Help at the roadside and local recovery
And compared to the font of Europlus and its bullet point, the font of 90 days cover in 
Europe is a slightly larger font.
So Mrs G has a point. 
However, the next question and answer section on the same page is as follows:
Where am I covered?
Rescue, Rescue Plus, Recovery, Recovery Plus
You are covered in the United Kingdom
Europlus
As above plus 90 days of cover in Europe per policy term
So I find it clear that the question Where am I covered? had different answers depending 
on whether Mrs G had Recovery Plus or Europlus cover.
Im satisfied that the IPID starts on the page with the heading "Breakdown Cover". And that 
page has the start of the What is insured?" section as follows:
What is insured?
Help at the roadside
Recovery to a local repairer
Optional Cover, available at an additional cost
Rescue Plus

Cover within  mile of your home address
Recovery

Taking the vehicle and passengers to any single destination in the UK
Recovery Plus

The cost of a single standard rail fare to collect your vehicle after repair
Thats the end of that page. So Recovery Plus was one of a list of optional levels of cover. 
And I consider that the list of options of What is insured?" continues on the next page with 
the further option of Europlus as quoted above as follows:
Europlusincludes Recovery Plus
As well as cover in the UK, up to 90 days cover in Europe per policy terms 
includes:
Help at the roadside and local recovery
And  subject to my reservation about fonts  I  find that it was clear that the question What 
is insured?" had different answers depending on whether Mrs G had Recovery Plus or 
Europlus.
I wouldnt expect an IPID to say which optional cover Mrs G had chosen. I would expect that 
to be found in a policy schedule, renewal letter or another document with her name on it. 
And, looking at the 2020 renewal documents, I see that the renewal notice and the 
breakdown proposal confirmation each included the following:
Level of cover Recovery Plus
So I find it clear enough that Mrs G had Recovery Plus rather than Europlus. And I find it 
clear enough that she didnt have cover for assistance in continental Europe.
Therefore I dont find that UKI treated Mrs G unfairly. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman