DRN-2182227
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that the advice provided to them by Openwork Limited (Openwork) 
was unsuitable as their investments fell in value during the early months and that charges 
were excessive.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L met with an Openwork advisor in August 2018 to discuss potential 
investments. The advisor went through a fact find exercise to understand Mr and Mrs Ls 
financial circumstances and attitude to risk. During this meeting, it was agreed that their 
attitude to risk be described as balanced. The advisor recommended that they put £100,000 
into the PruFund Growth Fund. The advisor also recommended that they put £100,000 into 
the Graphene C2 Balanced Model Portfolio.
Mr and Mrs L completed the paperwork for these investments and agreed to the charges 
which was for the initial advice (£5,000) and an ongoing service charge of 0.7% per year 
based on the fund values. 
Mr and Mrs L emailed the advisor in October 2018 that the performance of the Graphene 
investment had fallen more than 2.2% and that they wished to put on hold the ongoing 
service charge. 
Mr and Mrs L contacted Openwork in June 2019 to formally complain about the performance 
of their investments and the advice that they received from their advisor. They said that as 
the investment was capable of significant losses in such a short space of time (the Graphene 
C2 Balanced Model Portfolio had fallen 9.11% in less than 4 months to 24 December 2018) 
then it should not have been recommended to them. This was the only investment that had 
experienced this drop in value.
Openwork investigated Mr and Mrs Ls complaint but did not uphold it as they thought that 
the investments were suitable for their objectives. They said that although the recent 
performance had fallen short of their expectations, that was not in itself a reason to find that 
the recommendation was inappropriate.
Unhappy with Openworks response, Mr and Mrs L sent their complaint to the service. One 
of our investigators investigated their complaint but did not uphold it for the following 
reasons:
the investments that were recommended matched their attitude to risk and were suitable 
for them
the charges were clearly disclosed in the fee agreement which was signed by Mr and 
Mrs L
poor performance does not necessarily mean that the business has done anything wrong 
and the value of investments can fluctuate over time even though the short-term 
performance wasnt as they would have expected 
Mr and Mrs L did not accept the investigators view and have asked for an ombudsman to 
investigate their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L but I agree with the investigators view for much of the 
same reasons and I wont be upholding their complaint. I understand that Mr and Mrs L feel 
strongly that the recommendations were unsuitable, and I will explain how I have reached 
this decision.
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial aims.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
Ive looked at the documentation that captures the information provided by Mr and Mrs L and 
it contains much of what I would expect to see and records their personal circumstances and 
their attitude to risk. In the Suitability Letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs L, their attitude to 
risk is recorded as balanced and said, You agreed that Balanced was an appropriate 
description, considering the level of risk you are willing and able to take.
An advisor will use the clients attitude to risk to recommend suitable investments and the 
Openwork advisor recommended two investments that he felt were suitable which were the 
PruFund Growth Fund and the Graphene C2 Balanced Model Portfolio. 
The risk rating for the PruFund Growth Fund is described in the Key Information Document 
as:
We have classified this product as 3 out of 7, which is a medium-low risk class. This rates 
the potential losses from future performance at a medium-low level, and poor market 
conditions are unlikely to impact the capacity to pay you.
The portfolio objective for the Graphene C2 Balanced Model Portfolio says:
The portfolio is designed for a balanced investor. This is someone who is knowledgeable 
about financial matters and shows some interest in keeping up to date with them. They will 
have some experience of investment, including investing in products containing assets like 
shares and government bonds. They understand that the value of investment could rise or 
fall.
From what I have seen in the available documentation, I think that the recommended 
investments matched the attitude to risk that was agreed with Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L complain that as their Graphene investment fell by 9.11% in less than four 
months after they bought it, it falls outside a balanced attitude to risk and the fund should not 
be recommended to investors who want a balanced fund. I understand that Mr and Mrs L 
have seen the value of their investment fall a considerable amount, but the investment is 
intended to be kept for 10 years and future performance may improve.
Poor performance is not, in itself, evidence that something has gone wrong or that 
Openwork has done something wrong. From the information that I have seen, I think the investments recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Ls personal circumstances and 
their attitude to risk, so I am not going to ask Openwork to do anything else.
Mr and Mrs L are also unhappy with the fees they were charged. They say that the initial 
advice fee of £5,000 was excessive given that the advice was flawed. They are also 
unhappy that Openwork were charging them 0.7% for an ongoing service fee.
I have already said that that I think the advice that was provided was suitable, so I need to 
consider if the charges were disclosed to Mr and Mrs L correctly. From the documents that I 
have seen, Mr and Mrs L were aware of the charges and signed the Fee Agreement in 
August 2018. The setting of fees is a commercial decision by the business and the service 
cant say how much a business should charge. I think Openwork disclosed the charges 
correctly and as Mr and Mrs L agreed to them, Im not going to ask Openwork to do anything 
else.
In summary, I think that Openwork recommended investments that were suitable to Mr and 
Mrs Ls personal circumstances, objectives and stated attitude to risk. It is regrettable that 
the value of their investment fell after they invested but the investment is recommended to 
be held for the long term. They were aware that the value may fall and they agreed to the 
charges set by Openwork. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman