DRN-3490553
The complaint
Miss W complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans provided her
with high cost loans that she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Miss W was provided with the following loans by Everyday:
Start date Loan 
amountTerm - 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayable
Loan 1 12/06/2019 £1,500 18 months £166.39 £2,995.02
Loan 2 03/08/2021 £1,500 24 months £156.88 £3,765.12
She says she took out the first loan when she was vulnerable. She had credit card and 
other debts and feels that Everyday didnt take account of this when lending to her. She felt 
pressurised into taking out the second loan and couldnt afford the repayments.
Everyday reviewed the loans and said that in respect of loan 2, its affordability assessment 
failed to take account of childcare costs, and as result the loan was unaffordable. It agreed 
to repay the interest and charges on the loan. In respect of loan 1 it said that its 
assessment found that she had a sufficient monthly disposable income left to pay the loan 
instalments. It said that its checks included:
Obtaining and reviewing one months bank statements from a customers primary 
bank account
Conducting a Credit Search.
Carrying out a job check.
As part of its underwriting, it used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data and figures to 
calculate the living expense element of affordability.
Our adjudicator noted that Miss W had two credit cards, one of which was at its limit, the 
other having exceeded its limit and defaulted in May 2019. She also observed that Miss W 
had only been in her then employment for two months. So she said that Everyday should 
have carried out further checks before deciding to lend. She thought that as a result 
Everyday should have realised that Miss W would have been unable to afford the loan 
instalments.
Everyday disagreed, it said that having been in a job for two months wasnt an indication of 
lack of stability. And that the amounts owing on credit cards were small amounts.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the loan was unaffordable, though for 
different reasons.
Miss W accepted my provisional findings. Everyday received the provisional decision but has 
made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
W would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss W would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ws ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable)
loan 1
I have noted Everydays comments about our adjudicators view. I would agree that being 
in new employment isnt a bar to the affordability of a loan unless there was some other 
information to suggest that the employment was unstable. Which I dont think there was in 
this case. However I do think the fact of Miss Ws credit card having gone into default the 
month before the loan and her other credit card being at the limit were significant. It begs 
the question that, if she couldnt make repayments on small balances (£277 and £300), 
why she might be able to afford the new loan repayments.
Taking Everydays affordability assessment into account, Miss Ws credit commitments 
were said to be £890 a month. The loan didnt provide for any consolidation of other loans 
or credit. With an assessed income from all sources of £1,943, and including the new loan 
instalment this would have meant Miss W spending 53% of her income on her credit 
commitments. Her monthly disposable income was assessed to be £237, but I think with 
that level of credit the loan was unaffordable.
Ive noted that the credit commitments include nursery fees of £422. But even if they were 
not included as credit commitments, this would bring down the liability to 25% of her 
income. Looking at the bank statement supplied with the application, although Miss W 
managed to keep her account out of overdraft for May-June 2019, she had payments in as 
well as her income from work, benefits, and maintenance, of £1,000. So taking that into 
account I would still regard the loan as unaffordable.
loan 2
Everyday has agreed this loan was unaffordable, and has agreed to pay back the interest
and other charges so I wont go into this in any detail. I would observe however that its
updated affordability assessment (including childcare costs) showed Miss W to have a
negative disposable income of -£438 which does seem to indicate that the first loan was
unaffordable.
As neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings, those findings are now 
final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Miss W has had the capital sums for both loans and its fair that she repays those. I 
acknowledge that for loan 2 Everyday has agreed to repay the interest and other charges, 
although I havent been advised whether Miss W has agreed to this. So I will, in respect of 
both loans, require Everyday to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans.
Treat any payments made by Miss W as payments towards the capital amounts totalling 
£3,000.
If Miss W has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 
8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss W.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Miss Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman