DRN-3648468
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vitality Life Limited has acted unfairly when undertaking telephone 
advice regarding a life assurance application in January 2022. He says Vitality tried to sell 
him far more cover than the £300,000 he was seeking. He also says he was asked personal 
and financial information beyond what was necessary to complete his application.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr D wants compensation for being asked inappropriate questions 
and for the unlawful recording of his data, which was unnecessary for the purpose of 
producing a life cover quote.    
What happened
Mr D submitted a life insurance quotation on Vitalitys website. This was followed up by an 
initial referral call from Vitality on 28 January 2022. Mr D then consented to be transferred to 
a Vitality adviser to discuss personal protection needs on an advised-sale basis. 
Mr D became unhappy during the call with the content of the advisers questions, and the 
length of time the call was taking. He therefore terminated the call after 45 minutes. 
However, Vitalitys adviser had been able to prepare two life assurance quotes for Mr D  
one for £300,000 and another for £602,749. These were both issued that same day, with 
offer expiry dates of 27 February 2022. 
Following the call, Mr D sent an email to Vitalitys adviser on 30 January 2022. He said he 
ended the call because he felt the line of questioning was highly inappropriate and largely 
unnecessary. He said he was very concerned that Vitality was seeking financial information 
from him, and it was unethical to do so. He made a subject access request, and asked for a 
copy of all the information Vitality held about him under the General Data Protection 
Regulations (GDPR).  
Mr D also said:
he questioned why Vitality asked about the value of his home;
he questioned why it was appropriate to ask about cover for his buy to let mortgages;
the adviser was fishing for the highest possible value for life cover;
he was quoted for over £600,000 per month  presumably because he had said an 
extra £50 monthly premium had no bearing on his expenses;
the adviser turned a 20 minute quote telephone call into a 45 minute fact finding 
session;
he wasnt given time to reflect at the end of the call;
he asked about specific sporting activities that he undertook, which was intrusive. 
Vitality treated Mr Ds concerns as a complaint and acknowledged receipt via email.  
On 15 February 2022, Vitality supplied Mr D with the outcome of his subject access request. 
On 22 February 2022, Mr D emailed Vitality in relation to his complaint. He asked if, while it 
investigated the complaint, another adviser would complete the quote process for him. 
Vitality then issued a final response letter to the complaint dated 10 March 2022. 
Vitality rejected the complaint. It said it did not offer a non-advised brokerage service where 
it could merely quote for life assurance. It only provided advised services. The information 
the adviser asked was wholly necessary; it was used solely for the purpose of building a 
recommendation for Mr D. The information obtained was not used or sold to third parties.
Vitality also disagreed that the call was overly long. It felt its adviser had acted reasonably; it 
explained how life insurance can be complex and it offered a range of products to suit 
different purposes, lifestyles, incomes and preferences. It took time for the adviser to 
establish Mr Ds particular circumstances to give a tailored, appropriate recommendation.
Vitality said it had been necessary for the adviser to enquire as to what Mr D did to stay 
active  this was relevant to the beneficial add-on that allows customers to manage their 
premiums based on their Vitality status; it was therefore reasonable to put that to Mr D. 
Finally, Vitality offered for Mr D to reapply for cover, but explained that he could only do so 
by undergoing an advised sales process  it could not quote for life insurance without 
undertaking advice, as it did not offer that service. 
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. He said that he took the view that Vitality was 
populating its own records to make future referrals and therefore profiting from unsuspecting 
applicants. It was not acceptable for Vitality to question him under the guise of seeking life 
cover, in order to push unwanted financial services onto him.  
Mr D also said that whilst it may now be the case that there is a difference between advised 
and non-advised sales, Vitality had a duty to make that clear to potential customers.
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it ought to 
succeed. He said the sale of the policy was undertaken on an advised basis. The adviser 
had explained what this meant and asked questions which allowed an understanding of Mr 
Ds financial circumstances. This was necessary to make him appropriate recommendations.  
The investigator also noted that during the call Mr D had agreed to a higher quote being 
shared with him. And though the call did take longer than originally quoted, Mr D felt able to 
raise this at the time. He thereafter chose to end the call of his own volition. In summary, the 
investigator did not believe that Vitality had acted unfairly or inappropriately.  
Mr D said he wanted to have his complaint referred to an ombudsman. he made some 
additional comments:
Vitality wont erase his personal data relating to his properties and other non-vital 
information;
he remains surprised that it was allowed to ask so many questions when arranging 
life cover of that level;
he would also have greater peace of mind if Vitality would simply erase his data;
he also didnt get a reply from Vitality when he asked about moving forward with the 
policy via email (though it has since done so)  the investigator hadnt answered that;
nonetheless, he has now taken out another policy elsewhere;
it did still take a long time to set up, but the broker he used didnt ask as many 
inappropriate questions as Vitality did;
and when he refused to answer certain questions, the cover was still approved;
he felt forced to give answers, otherwise he wouldnt receive a quote;he is now left in a position without appropriate insurance.
The investigator said that the email Mr D referred to was a request for Vitality to redo the 
quote process. But he did not believe Vitality needed to complete another quote for Mr D  
as it had already done so. He therefore remained of the view that Vitality hadnt done 
anything wrong.  
Mr D reiterated that he now held a policy of the same value as the one he sought with Vitality 
 but the sales broker had not unfairly pressured him. The issue wasnt with the cover, its 
with the sales adviser at Vitality, who acted inappropriately.  He had no qualms about 
sharing medical information  but Mr D remained concerned that Vitalitys adviser had been 
fishing for financial information beyond what was required. 
   
Mr D also said that he thought our investigators approach was nave; he had repeatedly 
explained to Vitality that he wanted a quote for life assurance of a specified amount  
nothing more, nothing less. His personal financial information was not relevant to that.  
Vitality told our investigator it was happy for Mr D to have copies of the two telephone calls 
relating to the sale. It said it otherwise had no further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all of the evidence including the two telephone calls, I am of the view that 
this complaint cannot succeed. I know my decision wont be what Mr D has hoped for, but Ill 
summarise my reasons for reaching this conclusion below.  
It is now clear to both parties that Mr D did not want to receive financial advice  what he 
actually wanted was a quote from a sales broker on a non-advised basis.  
To be clear for Mr D, a non-advised sale means that the business merely provides 
information about the relevant insurance or investment being sought by the potential 
customer. The adviser cannot make any personal recommendations and it is left for the 
customer to decide how to proceed.  
An advised sale differs considerably from that. There are regulatory guidelines around 
advised sales that businesses must comply with, provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), specifically in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
To make a recommendation, a business must obtain the necessary information regarding 
the potential customers knowledge and experience, their financial situation and their 
objectives  which in Mr Ds case was to have sufficient life assurance protection. 
To do this, the business must obtain enough information from the customer in order to 
understand essential facts about their circumstances and the business must believe that:
the service or recommended transaction meets the customers recorded objectives; 
that the customer is able to meet the financial obligation of the recommended 
investment or insurance products; and
the customer has the necessary experience or knowledge to understand what they 
are taking out. There is no requirement on how the business carries out its assessment, although it must 
have a process that is 'fit for purpose'. Often this type of information is recorded on a fact 
find or a questionnaire, such as the record retained by Vitality and supplied to Mr D as part 
of his subject access request.  
I note that the adviser did make it explicitly clear to Mr D during the call at the earliest stage 
that he offered an advised service. He then went on to explain exactly what this meant  
that it was a focused protection review where he would ask Mr D questions about his 
personal and financial circumstances, take into account his budgetary requirements, and 
then go on to recommend an appropriate solution to Mr Ds documented needs, if that was 
possible from Vitalitys range of protection policies, rather than a full market analysis. 
The adviser then asked Mr D if he was happy to proceed on the basis of limited telephone 
information, and a follow-up summary recommendation and quotes via email. Mr D 
confirmed he accepted this, and an assessment including questions about Mr Ds 
circumstances followed thereafter.  
I can also see that as a direct follow up to the call, the adviser sent Mr D details of the advice 
process, which set out:
THE SERVICE YOU WILL RECEIVE
When it comes to buying Life, Income Protection, Serious Illness Cover and other 
Protection Products, everyones needs are different.
My role is to guide you through the range of options available through Vitality Life 
Limited in order to help create a plan that will suit your individual requirements and 
budget.
We will discuss your protection needs and I will assess your lifestyle and financial 
situation to ensure my advice is suitable.
Finally, I will assess affordability so that I can produce a Suitability Letter and my 
personal recommendation.
I will advise and make a personal recommendation for you after fairly assessing your 
needs for Protection Insurance.
My advice is not based on a fair analysis of the market but only offers advice and 
information on Vitality Life Limited plans.
I realise that Mr D became progressively frustrated and concerned about the questions he 
was asked during the call  but that was not the fault of Vitality. Mr D had an expectation that 
he would undergo a sales broker call  where no detailed analysis of his financial 
circumstances would be undertaken. Be that as it may, Vitality does not offer a non-advised 
or sales broker service. Mr D was free to decide to end the call, and he eventually did so.  
The adviser correctly stated that he was obliged to ask for information as part of Vitalitys 
advised service, and that he had a duty of care to ensure he made a relevant and affordable 
recommendation, tailored to Mr Ds needs and preferences. If he hadnt done so, Mr D could 
have complained that he was insufficiently advised.  
Mr D then later asked if the quote process could be reinstated  but it could never have been 
offered on a non-advised basis; and Vitality explained that clearly in its final response letter.Even if I believed Vitality had acted unfairly in relation to the advised sales call (which I do 
not), it is not part of my function to direct Vitality on how it undertakes sales and advice 
services to its customers. This service is not a regulator; that is the duty of the FCA.
Finally, I do appreciate that Mr D continues to hold concerns about how Vitality holds his 
personal data. Vitality says it couldnt have answered any request from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and remain compliant with FCA regulations if it did not retain the 
information about the advice  because Mr D has gone on to complain about it.  
Vitality also stated that under Article 17 of the GDPR it was able to refuse a request from a 
customer regarding the right to be forgotten  because it is not an absolute right. Businesses 
are able to retain personal data to the extent necessary for the defence of any legal claim. 
Since complainants that reject decisions of the Financial Ombudsman Service are free to 
lodge the matter in a relevant court, Vitality said it could not delete its records relating to Mr 
D until any court limitation period expired. 
Unfortunately for Mr D, I am not able to make findings on whether Vitalitys actions are a 
GDPR breach or not. Our role is one of informal dispute resolution. That may sometimes 
overlap in relation to the provision of a regulated activity  such as advice about life 
assurance. But the specific concern Mr D holds is one of data retention and the right to be 
forgotten. That falls within the remit of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and Mr 
D can contact that organisation about data protection issues, if he requires.  
My final decision
I am not able to uphold this complaint or make any award.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman