DRN-3878164
The complaint
Mr N complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited and its agents didnt pursue the
signing of a lease hed agreed with the tenants of a commercial property held in his SIPP
(Self Invested Personal Pension). He says this resulted in the tenant leaving the property on
shorter notice than if the lease had been signed, and hes lost out financially in a number of
ways as a result.
What happened
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint  the first dated 23 November 2022, and 
the second dated 14 December 2022. I set out the background and circumstances of the 
complaint as I understood them at the time in my first provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr N held a commercial property in his SIPP. Mr N had agreed new terms with 
his existing tenant. An e-mail from the tenant dated 8 October 2019 said:
Many thanks for the above email. Apologies for the delay, everything was just being
discussed on the board. We are ok with everything detailed above. If the 1 year break clause
could be added into the new agreement that would be great. We look forward to receiving
the new documents.
The new tenancy was due to start on 21 October 2019. The rent was £28,587 per annum for
a three-year period. There was a one-year break clause subject to six months prior written
notice. Standard Life (for ease Ive referred to Standard Life and its agents as Standard Life)
had the new tenancy agreement by 29 October 2019. Standard Life was instructed to
complete the new lease on 30 October 2019. My understanding when making my first 
provisional decision was that the lease wasnt sent to the tenant until 20 January 2020. The 
tenant didnt sign the lease, and Standard Life didnt chase the tenant for its signing.
The tenant subsequently provided notice to end the tenancy on 24 August 2020. The
tenancy was ended on 15 December 2020. The tenant hadnt been paying rent, but it 
subsequently paid all the rent it owed up to 15 December 2020 (at the old rate) in March 
2021.
Mr N complained about the matter to Standard Life. Standard Life accepted that its initial
level of service was not to the standard it should have been. It said it was sorry that it hadnt
chased the new lease agreement. But it said this was due to the unprecedented situation 
(the Covid pandemic) at the time. It said it didnt think its lack of service had caused the 
losses that Mr N had claimed, as it couldnt have forced the tenant to sign the new lease. It
said it was clear the tenants werent wanting to sign the new lease given the situation; the
tenants company was closed for a period during this time, and it had been sent the new
lease to sign in January 2020.
Standard Life offered to refund 50% of the yearly administration fee it charged. And
reduce the cost of the work it had undertaken on the previous lease and new lease to be
put in place for the backdated rent by £200, and capped it at £850 + VAT, in recognition of
the level of service received.
In my first provisional decision I said, in summary, that there appeared to have been a    
three-month period between Standard Life receiving the new lease at the end of October 
2019 and it sending it onto the tenant on 20 January 2020. I said that in my view, unless 
there had been good reason not to, Standard Life should have sent the new lease to the 
tenant in early November 2019. And if nothing had been returned it should have chased it in 
a timely manner.
I accepted that the tenant may have required final approval to agree the lease from its office 
overseas. And that it appeared the impact of Covid on the tenants business was a major 
factor in it not renewing the lease. But I said the situation with Covid was different in late 
2019. And I didnt think its impact and the significant restrictions imposed in March 2020 
would have been reasonably predicted at that point (late 2019).
The evidence that we did have showed the UK arm of the tenant had agreed to the terms of 
the lease in October 2019. So I thought if the lease had been chased and the tenant had 
been pressured to make a decision earlier, it was more likely than not, on the balance of 
probabilities, that it would have accepted the terms sometime before the end of 2019, and 
before the impact of Covid became clear. 
So I thought the complaint should be upheld. And I went on to set out what losses I thought 
reasonably flowed from Standard Lifes error, and how Standard Life should calculate and 
pay Mr N fair compensation. 
I asked Mr N and Standard Life to provide any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr N said, in summary, that Standard Life had failed in two of the most basic aspects of its
role in managing his SIPP responsibly and safely:
1  the contract wasnt signed
2  as a consequence no rent was collected.
Mr N said the previous tenant subsequently moved into a smaller property. And the absence
of the longer notice period they should have served might have materially changed their
mind.
He said the tenant might also have been open to reducing their tenancy from two floors
to just one floor  it originally only had the one floor. Mr N said because of Standard Lifes
failings, the potential opportunity to negotiate wasnt open to him. It would have led to a
continuing tenancy income and reduced the empty building costs.
Mr N also said that hed had a difficult time, and the matter had caused him both distress
and taken up a significant amount of his time and energy.
Standard Life said, in summary, that my understanding of the timing of when the lease had
been sent to the tenant was incorrect. It said it had received the instruction for the new lease
on 30 October 2019. And the renewal lease had been sent to the tenant on 5 November 
2019. On 10 December 2019 the tenant had e-mailed it confirming the renewal lease was 
with its overseas legal department. And the tenant e-mailed it again on 10 January 2020 
confirming the lease was still with its overseas legal department. Standard Life provided 
copies of the e-mails and the investigator sent copies on to Mr N.
Standard Life said this demonstrated the lease was issued to the tenant very quickly. And
that the tenant appeared committed to signing the lease up to January 2020; but ultimatelydidnt. It said it therefore didnt appear reasonable to hold it responsible for the tenant not
signing the lease. It said if the tenant had been intending on signing the lease it would have
paid the full amount of the new rent as it knew what it was. It said it thought it was unlikely
that the tenant was going to sign the new lease.
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint on 14 December 2022. I have 
copied the relevant section outlining my provisional findings below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr N. But having considered the further evidence and arguments
provided by the firm and having a different understanding of the facts of the case, Im now
minded to change the compensation I had intended on ordering Standard Life to pay. I am
still of the view that Standard Life failed to provide a timely and efficient service to Mr N
overall. However I dont think the same losses flow from its failings as I set out in my
provisional decision.
My original understanding was that Standard Life was informed of the lease renewal details
at the end of October 2019, but failed to send them onto the tenant until 20 January 2020.
So it appeared that Standard Life had done nothing with the lease for a near three-month
period; the tenant hadnt received it until late January 2020, and there was no further
chasing of it.
I think the fact that Standard Life sent the tenant the lease on 5 November 2019, and in
particular that the tenant had in fact been considering but not signing it, is material.
It seems that Standard Life did initially send the tenant the lease in a timely manner. And it
had updates from the tenant in December 2019 and January 2020 saying it was still
considering the lease. As I understand it, Standard Life didnt then chase the tenant or make
any follow up enquiries after January 2020. And the tenant didnt provide notice to quit until
August 2020. So in my view Standard Life didnt provide an acceptable level of service from
January 2020.
However a firm making a mistake, or failing to do something, in itself, doesnt necessarily
create an entitlement to compensation. It has to be shown that the mistake or failure caused
the losses that are being claimed.
It now appears that the tenant had been considering the lease from early November 2019
through to January 2020, but hadnt at that point signed it. In my view Standard Life should
have chased it  for example in late January 2020, February and or early March 2020.
However by the middle of March 2020 the potential impact of Covid was becoming more
real, and clearly by the time of the first lockdown - 23 March 2020. So I dont think its likely
the tenant would have signed the new lease from around the middle of March 2020
irrespective of the actions, or lack of, from Standard Life.
So I think the key question is whether, had Standard Life chased the tenant in late January
through to March 2020, it was more likely than not that it would have signed the new lease.
Having given this careful consideration, I dont think, on balance, its reasonable to conclude
that it would.
The position is different here to my provisional decision. It is evident that the tenant had had
the details of the new lease since early November 2019. But it still hadnt signed it despite itobviously being on its radar given its e-mails to Standard Life about it. It had therefore made
a conscious decision not to sign it up until at least 10 January 2020. I accept that its
possible the tenant would have signed the lease if Standard Life had chased it - as it should
have. But in my view, based on the balance of the evidence that we do have, I dont think
that was more likely than not given it had already been considering it for some time and, for
its own reasons, hadnt signed it.
Accordingly, my view remains that Standard Life made an error, in that it failed to provide an
efficient service and didnt chase the lease from late January 2020. Whilst I think that has
caused Mr N material distress and inconvenience, I dont think it caused the loss of the
rental income that Mr N has claimed.
Mr N said the previous tenant subsequently moved into a smaller property and had it been
on a longer notice period it might have materially changed its mind. He also said the tenant
might have been open to reducing its tenancy from two floors to just one floor. However, as I
said in my provisional decision, if the tenant had signed the new lease it could have still
given notice in April 2020. In my view it could still have made the same decisions  moved to
a smaller property or rented only one floor  when it didnt sign the tenancy. I dont think it 
necessarily follows that its likely it would have made different decisions about those matters
because it hadnt signed the tenancy.
I realise that my revised findings will be very disappointing to Mr N, in particular given what I
said in my provisional decision. However I have to make my decision on the balance of the
evidence. And in light of having a different understanding of the circumstances, for the
reasons I have set out, although I dont think Standard Life provided an acceptable level of
service overall, I dont think the loss of rental income was caused by its failures. Accordingly,
I have amended the compensation that I was originally minded to order Standard Life to
calculate and pay.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part.
Standard Life offered to refund 50% of the yearly administration fee they charged. And
reduce the cost of the work they had undertaken on the previous lease and new lease to be
put in place for the backdated rent by £200, and capped it at £850 + VAT, in recognition of
the level of service Mr N received. I think that offer is fair for the lack of service, and
Standard Life should make arrangements for that offer to be implemented if it hasnt done
already.
Mr N has said that hes had to put his retirement plans on hold because of the problems
associated with his pension. Hes said its put him through very significant amounts of
personal stress and taken up a significant amount of his time and energy. I can see the time
and effort Mr N has put in when making his complaint. Standard Life Assurance Limited
should also pay Mr N £500 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
caused him.
I asked Standard Life and Mr N to provide any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider. 
Mr N said, in summary, that it was all very well sending the lease, but Standard Life should 
also have been following it up. He said Standard Life didnt do a fundamental part of its job. 
Mr N referred back to the e-mail hed received from the tenant on 8 October 2019 which 
said, referring to the lease:Apologies for the delay, everything was just being discussed on the board. We are ok with 
everything detailed above. Mr N said the representative also chased him directly on 16 
October 2019.
I was just wondering if you have a timeframe on the new documents? Understand its only 
been 5 days since my last email.. We are just a little concerned on the lease agreement 
running out on the 20th...
Mr C said it was clear that the UK board approved the new lease in the middle of October 
2019 and were very keen to get it in place. Mr N also referred to the tenants comments in its  
response to Standard Life dated 20 January 2020: 
Whilst we finalise the lease with our [overseas] legal department please do let me know if 
any immediate payments are required, as we can turn this around quickly.
He said the tenant was contacting the overseas legal department to finalise the lease, not to  
consider whether to renew it or not. Mr N said the language was clear and the tenant wasnt 
considering the lease, but finalising it. 
Mr N said Standard Lifes mistakes/failures clearly led directly to the losses. Mr N referred to 
part of my provisional decision which said:
So I think the key question is whether, had Standard Life chased the tenant in late January 
through to March 2020, it was more likely than not that it would have signed the new lease. 
Having given this careful consideration, I dont think, on balance, its reasonable to conclude 
that it would.
Mr N said he disagreed with my finding, and for the reasons hed outlined above he thought 
on the balance of probabilities it would have signed it if chased. Mr N said instead the tenant 
remained in the building and wasnt paying rent. Mr N said Standard Life had confirmed to 
him in October 2019 that the lease would be sent for signing. And he only realised that 
something was wrong in August 2020 when he was contacted by the tenant (not Standard 
Life) to say it wasnt renewing the lease  a period of 10 months. Mr N said this was 
negligent behaviour on the part of Standard Life, and to describe it as an error (as I had in 
my provisional decision) didnt reflect the severity of the problem. 
Mr N also said I had understood the break clause incorrectly, and that the tenant couldnt 
implement the break clause until 21 October 2020.
In summary, Mr N didnt agree with my revised provisional findings. He said in his view, the 
loss of rental income was caused directly from Standard Lifes repeated errors and failings. 
Standard Life said it had nothing further to add about the merits of the complaint. However it 
said that the £200 reduction was applied to the bill for the lease, and the 50% reduction in 
fee was paid back into Mr Ns SIPP in June 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings in my second provisional 
decision dated 14 December 2022 as set out above. As I explained in that decision, its evident that Standard Life had e-mailed the tenant details 
of the new lease on 5 November 2019. The tenants e-mail dated 10 December 2019 said 
the tenant had submitted the lease to its overseas legal department for review. And the 
e-mail dated 10 January 2020 from the tenant said Whilst we finalise the lease with its 
overseas legal department. 
Mr N said this e-mail refers to finalising the lease, not to considering whether to renew it or 
not. However whilst I understand the point Mr N makes, I think the two are mutually 
dependent. Whilst the tenant may have been minded to renew the lease, it appears this was 
still subject to agreement of its terms by the overseas legal department. For its own reasons, 
it hadnt completely agreed to the terms at that stage. And clearly the tenant hadnt actually 
signed the new lease at that point, despite having it since early November 2019.
I dont wish to downplay the level of poor service provided by Standard Life; after initially 
sending the tenant the new lease, there was a complete failure to deal with it being left 
unsigned/not agreed. 
However, ultimately, I have to decide the likely consequences of that poor service. And in 
the particular circumstances, for the reasons I set out in my second provisional decision, I 
dont think its more likely than not that the tenant would have signed the lease if Standard 
Life had chased it - either prior to the 10 January 2020 e-mail or in late January
through to March 2020. The overseas legal department had had time to consider the terms 
of the lease and made a conscious decision not to agree to its signing up until at least 10 
January 2020. That was the factual position at that point. And Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that if Standard Life had chased the tenant either prior to or after receipt of this e-
mail, it would more likely than not have agreed to the new tenancy. 
Mr N has said that I misunderstood the terms of the break clause in the lease. I have taken 
the terms from the draft lease itself  section 48.1. However given that Im no longer 
persuaded that the tenant would have signed the lease had Standard Life chased it, I dont 
think its material in any event. 
Putting things right
Standard Life offered to refund 50% of the yearly administration fee they charged. And
reduce the cost of the work they had undertaken on the previous lease and new lease to be
put in place for the backdated rent by £200, and capped it at £850 + VAT, in recognition of
the level of service Mr N received. I think that offer is fair for the lack of service, and
Standard Life should make arrangements for that offer to be implemented if it hasnt done
already.
Mr N has said that hes had to put his retirement plans on hold because of the problems
associated with his pension. Hes said its put him through very significant amounts of
personal stress and taken up a significant amount of his time and energy. I can see the time
and effort Mr N has put in when making his complaint. Standard Life Assurance Limited
should also pay Mr N £500 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. 
I order Standard Life Assurance Limited to pay compensation to Mr N as I have set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman