DRN-3176210
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly closed its bank account 
causing inconvenience and financial loss. 
What happened
T explains that it had told HSBC that one of its directors passed away in 2017. No updates to 
its correspondence had been made and in October 2019 it tried to change the primary user 
of internet banking to a current director. After December 2019 it also tried to comply with the 
requirements of a safeguard review by HSBC. But the director who had registered as a 
primary user couldnt complete this online as required despite visiting a branch on three 
occasions. The account was closed in December 2020 and despite this action being 
cancelled wasnt fully reinstated for over five weeks. And HSBC continued to write to the 
deceased director causing distress to his wife  who was also a director. T said it wanted to 
be compensated for what happened.
HSBC said it was required to meet regulatory requirements and one way in which it did this 
was to confirm and verify information about its customers through safeguard. T hadnt met 
the requirements which was why the account had been closed. But it recognised that 
although it had set the director up as a primary user, its staff hadnt identified that he was still 
trying to log in as a secondary user. And that this was because he said he hadnt received a 
welcome pack. It paid T a total of £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay T a further £300 making a total of £500. T 
had set out a detailed timeline of what happened. And the director hadnt been set up as a 
primary user until September 2020. T had been proactive in trying to complete the safeguard 
review and the directors had visited a branch and made a number of calls. But it hadnt been 
told why it couldnt see the banner to complete the safeguard review when online. And the 
closure of the account could have been avoided. Our investigator set out that we dont make 
punitive awards and that we were looking at the impact on T, a separate legal entity, and not 
the distress of its directors or for costs that hadnt been incurred by T. But there had been 
problems with payments from Ts account and inconvenience that could have been avoided 
and he thought that a higher amount of compensation was required. HSBC agreed to pay 
this amount.
T didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The directors 
said that they shouldnt be out of pocket due to no fault of their own. And a spreadsheet 
detailing a claim for costs of £1,254.75 was provided. T said it didnt understand why £500 
was sufficient and how that covered the impact.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 October 2021. I set out below what I 
said.
I said that the facts in this complaint were largely agreed. Here T applied to change the 
primary user in October 2019. There was a problem with the first form which was 
resubmitted. That didnt seem to be actioned by HSBC. In December 2019 HSBC wrote to T 
about the safeguard review. And the director of T couldnt access online banking to complete 
this. A planned meeting with the directors with HSBC in March 2020 was cancelled due to 
the pandemic. HSBC extended the deadline for the safeguard review to September 2020.  A 
further application to change the primary user was made in late August 2020 and processed. 
HSBC says it sent the welcome pack needed for this to be activated but T says this wasnt 
received. In any event the director had further contact with HSBC and for reasons which 
arent totally clear wasnt instead allowed to complete the review over the telephone until 
January 2021.
While the account was closed on 12 December 2020 this was reversed by HSBC and T was 
allowed further time to complete the review. But that didnt conclude based on what HSBC 
says until 21 January 2021. There was disruption to some regular payments from the 
account and the directors said that they couldnt be paid.
I agreed with our investigator that taking into account the pandemic T was pro-active in 
trying to complete the review. And that the closure of the account ought to have been 
avoided. I also agreed with his comments about us only being able to consider the direct 
impact on T, a separate legal entity, although I didnt doubt that these events were 
distressing, especially for the wife of the deceased director.
putting things right
I said that T hadnt evidenced any financial loss from a disruption to trading. There was 
inconvenience in needing to deal with returned payments. And its directors were involved in 
dealing with these issues and made three branch visits about this. One director says that if 
they had invoiced T with actual costs it would have suffered financially but hasnt shown he 
did that. And a significant part of those claimed costs are for wages. We dont tend to make 
awards for units of time, and I said Id need to see actual financial loss for T of the directors 
being diverted from other things to consider compensation for this.
The directors do specify fuel and parking costs of £193.20 relating to travel to a branch on 
three occasions. I accepted this at face value and thought that these were necessary as 
clearly the phone calls werent productive. And I thought these are legitimate expenses for T. 
So, I said I would be including these in my award.
But I knew I was going to disappoint the directors when I said that the compensation for 
inconvenience and disruption of £500 is reasonable taking everything into account and I 
wouldnt be increasing that. I said that if T didnt accept my conclusions it still remains free to 
pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
HSBC has already paid T £200. I intended to require it to pay further compensation of 
£493.20 (£300 plus £193.20 for expenses).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it accepted my provisional decision.
T didnt agree. A director asked whether if hed invoiced T that would have made a 
difference. He said that the compensation doesnt reflect the mental turmoil caused. And the 
pain of letters being sent addressed to a director that had passed away. Hours of work had 
been involved and time wasted. And HSBC hadnt taken into account that T had many accounts run well over a number of years. T expected HSBC to look after its interests and it 
ought to have wanted to provide better service. T asked that we go back to HSBC to ask it to 
look at things again. The director said how strongly he felt about this complaint. And he also 
realised how costly it would be to take legal action.
I do understand the strength of feeling here. The complaint has been referred to this service. 
And Im making a decision about what is fair and reasonable. Ive already asked HSBC to 
increase the payment and it is down to me to decide whether it would need to do more.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont doubt the distress caused. But I can only look at 
the impact on T the complainant here. And I cant look at what might have happened with 
invoices to T. But as I explained above we dont tend to look at units of time in any case and 
Id need to see how T was disadvantaged and couldnt do other things as a result. I have 
already accepted that the out of pocket expenses for the directors on behalf of T ought to be 
recompensed.
I have reconsidered whats happened and the further comments. But I have decided that the 
compensation set out in my provisional decision remains the fair resolution to the complaint. 
So, Im afraid I wont be increasing this as T wants.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay T a 
further £493.20 making a total of £693.20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman