DRN-3734467
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the performance of his personal pension plan with Scottish 
Widows Limited (Scottish Widows). He is also unhappy with the lack of management of his 
pension and updates regarding his funds performance. 
What happened
The history leading up to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I have only 
summarised key events below. 
Mr A has a stakeholder pension with Scottish Widows. In January 2021, at Mr As request, 
his retirement date was changed to February 2022. At this time, a letter was issued 
explaining that his policy included lifestyle switching as part of his investment strategy. The 
letter explained this meant that as Mr A approaches his retirement date (referred to by 
Scottish Widows as the Lifestyle Target Date) his investments were gradually being moved 
into lower risk investments (Pension Protector Fund and Cash Fund) on a monthly basis. 
The letter informed Mr A that he could cancel the remaining switches at any time. 
On 6 August 2021, Scottish Widows sent Mr A a letter explaining that he was nearing his 
retirement date and should start thinking about what hed like to do with his pension. At this 
time the value of his plan was £147,561.76, not guaranteed.
And in December 2021 Mr A received a retirement options letter from Scottish Widows which 
stated his plan value was £150,992.25, not guaranteed.
Mr A didnt take benefits at his selected retirement date in February 2022, so the retirement 
date was automatically extended to his 75th birthday. 
On 14 April 2022, Mr A received his annual statement which showed that value of his plan 
had decreased to £135,057.54. Mr A complained to Scottish Widows as he was unhappy 
that his pension value had decreased by nearly 10% since December 2021. He also 
complained that his pension had not been managed. 
In its final response to the complaint, Scottish Widows explained, in summary, that pensions 
are investments which can fluctuate. So it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into things but didnt consider that Scottish 
Widows had done anything wrong and so the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Dissatisfied, Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I agree with our investigators conclusions, 
so Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
In this case, Mr A is understandably concerned about the reduction in the value of his 
pension plan. However, having reviewed everything that has been provided by the parties I 
am unable to say this is the result of some failing by Scottish Widows. 
As the investigator explained, Mr As pension plan is an investment. This means that the 
value of the pension fund depends on the performance of various investments and is not 
guaranteed. 
Ive looked at the information Ive been provided and I unable to agree that Scottish Widows 
failed to properly inform Mr A about the investments and value of the funds held within his 
pension plan. He was also told he could switch to different investments and/or halt the 
lifestyle switches that occurred prior to February 2022 (when this process was completed). 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr A sought to make any changes to his investments or that 
Scottish Widows improperly managed his investments in line with the lifestyle approach that 
applied to his plan. 
Although the lifestyle approach is used to manage investment risk as a customers chosen 
retirement age approaches, it does not eliminate investment risk. In certain situations, fixed 
interest investments can fall in value sharply. Unforeseeable global events in late 2021 and 
early 2022 meant that the value of gilts fell, and by that point a significant proportion of 
Mr As pension was invested in the Pension Protector Fund (in accordance with his chosen 
lifestyle approach) and this was impacted by the decrease in the value of gilts.   
Mr A has said he is unhappy he pays a fee for Scottish Widows to manage his investments, 
and this was not done. But pension providers do not manage investments in the same way 
an adviser or discretionary fund manager might. As the pension provider, Scottish Widows 
role was limited to providing Mr A with information about his investments and administering it 
in accordance with his instructions. 
Pension providers like Scottish Widows take annual management charges for carrying out 
administrative tasks, providing safe custody of investments, buying and selling investments 
(as instructed), and providing regular updates. With this in mind, Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence that Scottish Widows has failed in the management of Mr As pension plan. 
In summary, I cant agree that Scottish Widows treated Mr A unfairly when it followed the 
lifestyle approach. Im satisfied it did enough to make him aware that his pension fund would 
be treated in this way and that he was responsible for monitoring his investments and 
instructing Scottish Widows to make any changes. And Im satisfied Scottish Widows 
followed the fund switches called for by Mr As chosen lifestyle approach. So, Im not able to 
say that Scottish Widows has made not managed his pension correctly or has otherwise 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in these circumstances. So while I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A, Im not asking Scottish Widows to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons provided, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman