DRN-1571873
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank plc (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs F in 1996, in connection with a joint 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs F if they couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs needs?
-    Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs F the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs F are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs F say they don't remember PPI being discussed when they arranged their 
mortgage, and they didn't know it had been added to their account. They say they didn't 
claim on the policy when Mr F was made redundant and subsequently off work sick. They 
consider this shows they didn't know anything about the policy.
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs F have said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed between Mr and Mrs F and Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that precise recollections of what 
happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats not 
surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
But it has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs F's mortgage application, which included a 
separate section about PPI. There were a number of questions Mr and Mrs F had to answer 
to complete that section. It seems Mr and Mrs F decided they wanted 60% of the 
PPI cover to be allocated to Mr F, and 40% to be allocated to Mrs F. 
So from what I've seen, I don't think I can safely say that Lloyds didn't make Mr and Mrs F 
aware of the PPI, or give them a choice about buying it - although I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs F may no longer remember this. 
Lloyds accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs F to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs F say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt 
work because of sickness or accident, and that they had life insurance. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Fs employer sick pay, and wouldve 
meant they could use those benefits to pay for other expenses if they couldnt work. 
In addition, their life insurance would've only paid out in the event of death, whereas 
the PPI provided cover if they were off work sick or made redundant. So overall I 
think Mr and Mrs F would have had some use for the policy, despite their existing 
arrangements.
Mr and Mrs F werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs F needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the policys cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs F before they 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs F would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs F werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs F would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
As the adjudicator has already said, Mr and Mrs F may want to consider contacting Lloyds to 
see whether it's possible to make a retrospective claim on the policy in connection with Mr 
F's redundancy and ill health. 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman