DRN-2818750
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the service that she has received from Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading 
as Virgin Money, with regard to issues that she incurs when attempting to log into their 
online banking platform.
What happened
Mrs D has struggled for some time to log onto Clydesdales online banking platform to 
access her accounts and has continually encountered issues, including being thrown out of 
the log-in process, such that it was taking Mrs D several attempts to log in before she could 
access her accounts. Mrs D wasnt happy about this, or about the attitude of Clydesdale staff 
when she had contacted them about this, so she made a complaint.
Clydesdale looked at Mrs Ds complaint, but when they checked their records it appeared to 
indicate that Mrs D had been following the wrong process. Furthermore, Clydesdale werent 
aware of any wider ongoing system issues that could have caused the issues that Mrs D 
was describing. However, Clydesdale did acknowledge that on some occasions their staff 
didnt provide the level of service to Mrs D that they would have liked. So, they apologised to 
Mrs D and made a payment of £25 to her for any inconvenience she might have incurred.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response, especially as she continued to encounter 
accessibility issues every time she tried to log into her accounts, so she referred her 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy investigation, while they 
acknowledged that Mrs D was having the issues that she described, our investigator didnt 
feel that it could be fairly said that the issues that Mrs D was experiencing could be 
confirmed as being the result of some action or omission that Clydesdale should be 
considered as being responsible for. And because of this, our investigator didnt feel that 
they were able to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its easy to understand Mrs Ds frustration with the ongoing difficulties that 
she continues to experience when attempting to log on to Clydesdales online banking 
platform. And Mrs D has been able to demonstrate to this service the nature of these issues 
such that there can be no doubt that they are occurring.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that Clydesdale should fairly be considered 
as being responsible for these ongoing problems. And in order for me to consider upholding 
this complaint in Mrs Ds favour, Id need to be satisfied that Clydesdale could reasonably be 
considered as being responsible, by some act or omission, for the ongoing difficulties that 
Mrs D is experiencing and the upset and inconvenience she continues to incur as a result.
Ultimately, I think its more likely than not that it isnt the case that Clydesdale should 
reasonably be considered responsible for Mrs Ds online accessibility issues, and one 
reason I say this is because it appears that this problem is localised to Mrs D and doesnt 
appear to be a wider ongoing problem affecting other Clydesdale customers.
Additionally, Clydesdale were struggling to match Mrs Ds description of events with their 
own logs and records. And, while Mrs D has been able to demonstrate the issues she 
experiences and confirm her version of events, I feel that the fact that the initial portion of the 
events that Mrs D experiences isnt logged in Clydesdales records suggests that the issue 
might be occurring outside of Clydesdales systems, as could be the case if the issues were 
to do with connectivity or compatibility.
Its also important to acknowledge here that the nature and cause of the issue that Mrs D is 
experiencing remains unknown, despite Mrs Ds and Clydesdales own efforts to diagnose 
the problem. 
So, while I can certainly sympathise with Mrs D given the frustrating nature of her ongoing 
experience, I dont feel that I can fairly say that Clydesdale can be considered as having 
caused her frustrations or be considered as being solely responsible for what continues to 
take place. And, until this can be confirmed, it remains a possibility that Clydesdale might not 
be in any way responsible for the continuing issues that Mrs D is experiencing here.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs D was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Clydesdale to take any further action at this time. 
I do hope that Mrs D is able to find a solution to the accessibility problems she is 
encountering, and I note that Clydesdale have offered to continue to assist Mrs D moving 
forwards in this regard. 
Finally, I hope that Mrs D can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman