DRN-2582898
The complaint
Ms J and Mr J are complaining Acromas Insurance Company Limited cancelled Ms Js car 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 February 2018 Ms J took out a car insurance policy provided by Acromas. Ms J was 
the policyholder and Mr J  her son  was the named driver. She applied for the policy 
online. On 19 February 2018 Acromas wrote to her asking for her proof of No Claims 
discount (NCD). The next day it sent her a recorded delivery letter saying it had noticed 
three undisclosed claims and it asked for an explanation of why she hadnt disclosed them. 
And it said it would cancel the policy in seven days. Ms J didnt respond so Acromas 
cancelled the insurance policy on 28 February 2018.
On 16 March 2018 Mr J was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. Ms J 
complained to Acromas who explained it had cancelled the policy back to the beginning 
because she hadnt disclosed the claims. Mr J attended court and was cleared of driving 
without insurance. 
Ms J later complained that her new insurer had cancelled her insurance policy because of 
the cancellation details Acromas had recorded. She said it was unfair Acromas cancelled the 
policy because of her NCD as she said she had a valid NCD. 
Acromas didnt uphold Ms Js complaint as it maintained it had acted fairly in cancelling the 
insurance policy. It said Ms J had initially got a quote for insurance with declaring the three 
claims, but then took the claims off he application and took out the policy. So it thought the 
misrepresentation was deliberate.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I think there are two issues for me to decide here:
1. Was it fair for Acromas to cancel the insurance policy; and
2. Did Acromas give sufficient notice to Ms J it had cancelled the policy.
I shall deal with each point separately.
Misrepresentation 
As the investigator has pointed out, Acromas didnt cancel the insurance policy due to an 
issue with Ms Js proof of NCD. But it cancelled the policy because Ms J didnt disclose her 
previous claims history. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation 
is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms 
or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
Ms J didnt disclose three claims when she took out the policy. Im satisfied she knew she 
needed to disclose them because she disclosed them on an initial application she 
completed, but then later removed them. Im satisfied Acromas would have, at least, charged 
an increased premium. So I think there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA allows a business to cancel a policy in the event of a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The terms of the insurance policy also entitled it to do so. I can see Acromas did write to 
Ms J to ask her to explain why she didnt disclose these claims. I understand Ms J didnt 
receive this letter, but I cant hold Acromas responsible for this. However, irrespective of this, 
I dont think it would have made a difference as I think Acromas would have cancelled this 
policy even if Ms J had received the letter and responded to it. 
Ms J thinks Acromas should remove the cancellation record because Mr J was cleared for 
driving without insurance by the courts. But the court ruling has no bearing on Acromass 
actions. Ultimately, as I said, Acromas was entitled to cancel the insurance policy and I dont 
think it acted unfairly in doing so. It follows, therefore, that I dont think its responsible for the 
fact that her subsequent insurance policy was cancelled as well. 
Did Acromas give sufficient notice of the policys cancellation?
Im satisfied Acromas gave fair notice it was going to cancel the policy  it sent a seven-day 
cancellation letter by recorded delivery. So I think it acted fairly in notifying Ms J it was going 
to cancel the policy. But, due to the significant implication of driving without insurance, Id 
also expect an insurer to inform its policyholder that it has cancelled the policy. But I havent 
seen anything to show it did do so until around a month later. Therefore Im not persuaded 
Acromas gave Ms J sufficient notice of the policys cancellation. And Im satisfied she wasnt 
aware Acromas had cancelled the policy.
Ive thought about to what extent Ms J and Mr J have lost out as a result of this. I dont think 
Ms J materially lost out because Acromas didnt initially tell her it had cancelled the policy. It 
seems to me that her primary unhappiness is because Acromas cancelled the insurance 
policy and, as Ive said, it was entitled to do so. 
However, as I said, its clear they werent aware the policy was cancelled. And, as I said 
above, I dont think Acromas did enough to advise Ms J it had cancelled the insurance 
policy. As a result Mr J continued to use the car and was ultimately arrested and taken to 
court for driving without insurance. I think Acromas is responsible for this. I acknowledge 
Mr J was ultimately cleared for driving without insurance, but this has still caused him some 
distress and inconvenience. So I think Acromas should pay him £300 in compensation.
Ms J responded to say she wanted her name removed from any fraud database. She said 
Acromas told her it had cancelled the policy because she had deliberately not provided the 
proof of NCD, but she highlighted she was on holiday. 
Acromas didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms J thinks its unfair Acromas recorded a fraudulent marker against her name 
and she says this was because she didnt provide a copy of her NCD. But as I set out in my 
provisional decision and, as the investigator and Acromas previously set out, the policy 
wasnt avoided because she didnt provide her proof of NCD, but because she didnt 
disclose three claims shed previously had.
Acromas has said Ms J included these in her initial online application, but then subsequently 
removed them from the online application before taking out the policy. A qualifying 
misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless if the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it 
was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, 
or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
As Ms J initially included the claims as part of her online application, its clear she knew this 
was information she needed to disclose to Acromas. I can see that both the investigator and 
Acromas have asked Ms J to explain why these claims were removed. But, other than 
saying the application was done by her daughter, Ms J hasnt given an explanation for why 
she didnt disclose these claims. 
As Ms J knew she needed to disclose the claims but didnt do so and she hasnt given a fair 
explanation for why she didnt do so, I dont think it was unfair for Acromas to treat this as a 
deliberate misrepresentation. Its follows that I also dont think it was unfair for Acromas to 
record the marker it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I require Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr J £300 in compensation. I dont award anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman