DRN-4268574
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement (agreement) 
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) isnt returning 188 miles per gallon and the 
battery isnt charging to 39 miles as advertised by the manufacturer on its website.
Mr H is represented in his complaint by a third party. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to any 
submissions and comments made by the third party as if they had been made by Mr H 
himself. 
What happened
On 24 November 2022 Mr H acquired a new car costing £48,920.00 under an agreement 
with Santander. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H 
undertook to make an advance payment of £6,000.00 followed by 48 monthly payments of 
£614.13 and 1 monthly payment of £21,748.50  making a total repayable of £57,226.74 at 
an APR of 6.4%.
On 5 December 2022 Mr H emailed the supplying dealership to say, amongst other things, 
that We understand we are still within the 14 days cancelation period and as the car is 
performing today we are not happy with [it].
On 6 December 2022 Mr H emailed the supplying dealership to complain about the car not 
returning 188 miles per gallon, the battery not charging to 39 miles and a number of other 
issues. He also said that he would like to cancel the purchase of the car. Mr H says that as 
well as advising the supplying dealership of his concerns and his desire to cancel he also 
advised Santander of the same.
On 5 January 2023 Mr H complained to the supplying dealership that the car was still not 
returning 188 miles per gallon, the battery was still not charging to 39 miles and one of his 
other issues remained unresolved.
On 19 January 2023 Mr H contacted the supplying dealership to say that he accepted there 
wasnt now any issues with the car other than it not returning 188 miles per gallon and the 
battery not charging to 39 miles, issues he would now be taking further.
On 16 March 2023, and after Mr H had complained to it, Santander issued a final response 
letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL Santander said that having had regard to a report 
produced by an independent company that it had instructed to inspect the car, a company 
that I will call A, it wasnt upholding Mr Hs complaint about the car not returning 188 miles 
per gallon and the battery not charging to 39 miles.
In April 2023, and unhappy with Santanders FRL, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision whether 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its treatment of Mr H, having regards to its various 
obligations towards him as the provider of the agreement (and the owner of the car) and in 
light of what it is Mr H is complaining about. Im not considering in this decision the treatment 
of Mr H by the supplying dealership because given what it is he is complaining about I dont 
have the power to do so.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says, amongst other 
things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as 
the supplier of goods, Santander are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by 
things such as what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, 
description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
Durability means that the components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that the car should match its description. 
issues with the car raised by Mr H other than the car not returning 188 miles per gallon and 
the battery not charging to 39 miles
Ive considered these issues very carefully. But having done so Im not persuaded that they 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. And because of my finding in this 
respect, it follows that Mr H (in respect of these issues) had no short term right to reject the 
car. But even if I was to accept that these issues made the car of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, these issues were either deemed to not be faults, or repairs were undertaken to 
remedy them, repairs that proved to be successful. And despite what Mr H says to the 
contrary, Im satisfied that he freely agreed to all the repairs that were undertaken.
issue with the car not returning 188 miles per gallon and the battery not charging to 39 miles
An advertised miles per gallon and battery charging figure are given to allow consumers to 
compare cars. They are undertaken in the same laboratory conditions so that consumers 
can be confident that they are comparing like with like. These figures are always explained in 
this way as they rarely represent real world driving conditions. So, its unlikely that Mr H 
would ever achieve either.
But in any event, in the particular circumstances of this case Santander commissioned an 
inspection of the car by A. And it says that the report produced by A following its inspection 
doesnt support Mr Hs submission that the car doesnt return 188 miles per gallon or that the 
battery doesnt charge to 39 miles.Ive considered the report very carefully. And although I accept that Mr H disagrees with 
many (if not all) aspects of it Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to conclude from this 
report, and it did so fairly and reasonably, that the car was capable of achieving what the 
manufacturer advertised was achievable and that the car wasnt of unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied. And because of my finding in this respect, it follows that I cant say the car 
was faulty when supplied or that it was misrepresented.
Finally, because I cant say the car was faulty when supplied or that it wasnt 
misrepresented, it also follows that Mr H (in respect of these issues) had no short term right 
to reject the car.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. But having taken everything into 
account  Im simply not persuaded that Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
treatment of him and its under no obligation to accept rejection of the car or under any 
obligation to compensate him in any other way. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman