DRN-3051712
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs S-M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under their building 
insurance policy to repair their basement floor, which was damaged during a flood.
Mr M is representing Mrs S-M in this complaint. I will refer to Mr M for ease of reading in my 
decision. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M noticed flooding in his basement. He says this is the first time this 
has happened since moving in 11 years ago. Although there was some wear to the 
basement floor, he says no significant cracking was noticed until after the flooding. He also 
says there was no evidence of water ingress before his claim.
Mr M says his basement has suffered three further instances of water ingress since the 
flooding in February. He says the cracking caused by the flooding needs to be repaired or 
the concrete slab replacing, to stop water entering his basement. Mr M also complains about 
the handling of his claim, specifically involving delays. 
AXA says the water in the basement tested positive for nitrates, which indicates rising 
moisture. It says the only way to prevent further water ingress is for the basement to be 
tanked. It doesnt accept repairing the cracked concrete is the solution. It accepts its 
handling of the claim should have been better and offered £400 in compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset caused. 
Mr M disagrees. He says the flooding that took place around February 2020 was a one-off 
event due to unprecedented levels of rainfall. He didnt think AXAs expert is correct to say 
that a gradually rising water level is the cause of the cracking or the water ingress. So, he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator decided that AXAs expert opinion was persuasive, that the cause was due 
to a rising water table. He thought the company was fair to rely on the policy exclusion terms 
when declining the claim and decided not to uphold the complaint.       
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think this is fair.
Its the responsibility of the policy holder to show they have a valid claim under one of the 
insured events covered by the policy terms. If they can do this, the insurer must pay the 
claim unless it can show a valid policy exclusion applies. I have thought about this when 
considering Mr Ms complaint. 
AXA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage in February 2020. The report says:
The survey revealed the presence of standing water which at the time measured 12 inches 
in depth throughout the entire basement floor.
The water appeared to be the result of a natural underground water course path likely 
originating from the main road adjacent to the property & potentially penetrating through the 
brickwork or finding its way under & rising through cracks in the concrete floor of the 
basement (which was observed to be in poor condition in places).
As the basement is 2m underground such issues are common in properties of this age & 
construction, Meaning the naturally occurring water course will cut a path of its choosing, 
finding weaknesses in the fabric of the building wherever possible to gain access.
The support timbers which line the walls & appear to form part of the structural supports for 
the internal floors are completely saturated (they will require replacement) further 
investigations would be required to assess more thoroughly all mentioned above once all 
standing water is removed.
AXAs loss adjustor visited the property in March 2020. The report says:
The insured has discovered that here [sic] basement has flooded with around twelve inches 
of water at its peak. The Insured has initially found the water coming in and they used a 
pump to remove the water, when they did this they saw that it kept filling from cracks which 
had appeared in the concrete floor slab. Once the water had receded the insured checked 
through the contents and found that there were timber supports that had been compromised 
with one now missing a base plate and a section of the concrete floor, where a crack had 
appeared, there was a bulge as it appears to have lifted making the floor unlevelled.
AXA arranged for a salts test to be carried out. This took place in January 2021. The report 
says:
Attended site today to carry out a salts test to the basement floor, all the floor is cracked
due to the pressure of water pushing up on the concrete.
Salts test result shows its positive for nitrates which suggests its rising moisture, more than
likely from the water table rising when it rains. The basement is not tanked so this will
always have high moisture levels. The only way to solve this issue is to tank the whole
basement professionally.
Policy holder not happy with the cracks but unsure of any alternative option apart from
tanking the area, this problem will more than likely keep happening whenever the water
table rises.
PH advised that he has been in the property of 12 years and has never had any issues prior 
to this. The water pressure has cracked the floor and it has pushed up. Yesterday there was 
only minimal rain and yet water has entered the property.
The expert reports are consistent in providing the view that the damage is caused by a rising 
water table creating upward pressure on the concrete floor.
The policy terms say, Your policy wont cover losses caused by poor maintenance or 
damage which happens gradually. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Ms view that the cracking was caused by a one-off flood event. And that the resultant cracks are allowing water into his basement when it rains. He 
has supplied links to local news websites and a government webpage. These links provide 
information about flooding in the area around the time of his claim. I have spent some time 
reading through this information.  
Heavy rain was experienced in February 2020. Flooding was reported in the local area and 
nationally. This is not in dispute. However, the expert opinion provided by AXA indicates the 
cracking to Mr Ms floor has been caused by water pressure resulting from a rising water 
table. When it rains the water pressure increases, and this forces water up through the 
cracks in the concrete floor. 
The expert opinion indicates that repairing the cracks will not prevent water from forcing its 
way through the concrete again. Its thought that the gradually rising water table is the cause 
of the cracking and the presence of water in the basement, as opposed to a one-off flooding 
event. 
Having considered Mr Ms arguments and the reports provided by the surveyor and other 
professionals, I find the explanation of a rising water table the most persuasive. The reports 
indicate signs of advanced rot in support timbers in the basement, and a floor that was in a 
poor condition in places. Nitrates were found in the test samples, supporting the view that 
water was rising from beneath the concrete floor. 
I note Mr Ms comments that the floor wasnt showing any significant cracks until after the 
flooding occurred. I dont dispute his comments. But the evidence suggests there has been 
an ongoing issue with moisture in the basement, and for some period. Mr M also confirms 
that on several occasions since he first claimed, water has seeped up through the cracks in 
the concrete when it rains. 
A rising water table applying upward pressure to the concrete is considered an ongoing 
gradual cause. This is not a one-off flood event and isnt something covered by Mr Ms 
Policy. Because of this, I think AXA acted fairly in relying on the policy terms and declining 
Mr Ms claim.
Claim handling delays       
Mr M isnt happy with the delays he experienced in his claim being progressed, and the 
contact required to move things along. 
I understand that after the initial inspections in early 2020, Mr M couldnt engage with the 
claims process, for personal reasons, until August. From there it took until January 2021 
before further testing was complete. And AXA confirmed the claim for repairs to the 
basement floor was declined. 
The records show Mr M was in contact with AXA during this period to chase progress. I note 
the company accepted the lack of progress caused inconvenience and upset for Mr M and 
compensation of £400 was provided. In all the circumstances described I think this was fair. 
In summary, having considered all of this, I think AXA acted fairly when relying on the policy 
terms to decline Mr Ms claim. It acknowledged its delays in progressing matters and 
provided appropriate compensation. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman