DRN-3611312
The complaint
Ms B complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) avoided 
(treated it as if it never existed) her motor insurance policy and refused to pay her claim 
following the theft of her car.
What happened
Ms B renewed her motor insurance policy with AAUICL. When her car was stolen from her 
driveway she tried to claim on her policy. AAUICL declined her claim, avoided her policy and 
kept the premiums shed already paid. When Ms B complained, it said shed answered the 
question shed been asked about previous motoring offences incorrectly. And that it 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her 
policy and refuse her claim. It said it retained the premium for six months due to an open 
claim. 
Ms B brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she believed it was 
careless. So she thought AAUICL was entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. But 
she thought it should have refunded the premiums. To put things right, she thought it should 
now do this, with interest, and pay Ms B £100 compensation for her trouble and upset.  
AAUICL doesnt agree with the Investigator. It said it was its policy to retain premiums for six 
months if there was an open claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the impact AAUICLs decision to avoid the policy has had on Ms B. 
I can see that this has caused her a significant financial loss. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
AAUICL thinks Ms B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she confirmed in her renewal that she hadnt had any motoring convictions within the 
previous five years. AAUICL sent Ms B her renewal documents and she was asked to 
ensure they were accurate. 
Under the section About The Declarations of The Driver(s) a question asks:
Have you or any person who will be drive ever been convicted (or have any pending 
prosecutions) for motoring offences or received any endorsable fixed penalty notices  in the
last 5 years? 
I think this was a clear question asked by AAUICL. Ms B answered No. But she later 
explained she had forgotten about a SP30 speeding conviction. So I agree she failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
AAUICL has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Ms B had not 
made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am satisfied 
Ms Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Ms Bs misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because I 
think Ms B forgot about the conviction and I havent seen evidence that she didnt disclose it 
deliberately.  
Therefore, Im satisfied AAUICL was entitled to avoid Ms Bs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, AAUICL does not have 
to deal with her claim following the theft of her car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing AAUICL to rely on it to 
avoid Ms Bs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
But, as the misrepresentation was careless, AAUICL is required by CIDRA to refund Ms Bs 
premiums. But it declined to do so for six months because it said there was an open claim. 
Weve asked for information about this claim, but it hasnt provided anything further. So I 
conclude that the open claim refers to Ms Bs theft claim. But as the policy was avoided, not 
cancelled, then the policy terms that allow AAUICL to retain the premium for six months 
dont apply. And so I think it was wrong for AAUICL to retain them.
AAUICL has now refunded the premiums. But, as Ms B was without her money for some 
time, I think it should add interest to this amount for the time it wrongly retained them. And I 
think it should also pay Ms B compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Our 
Investigator recommended £100 compensation. And I think thats in keeping with our 
published guidance for the impact of this error.
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to the refund of Ms Bs premiums from 
the date the policy was cancelled to the date they were refunded. 
2. Pay Ms B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it wrongly 
retaining her premiums. 
If AAUICL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman