DRN-3487853
The complaint
Mr S complains that Insurance Company Euroins AD hasnt refunded the premiums he paid 
for a single trip travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Euroins also includes its agents.
What happened
On 7 March 2021, Mr S took travel insurance policy to cover a trip for 8 days departing on 9 
June 2021. The policy was provided by Euroins. He paid £50 for his insurance cover, 
including Insurance Premium Tax.
Because of the global pandemic, Mr Ss trip was cancelled on 9 April 2021. The tour 
operator he booked with provided a full refund of the travel and accommodation. In May 
2021, Mr S contacted Euroins to request that the policy was cancelled, and the premium 
refunded. Euroins said as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, Mr S 
was not entitled to a refund of the premium, but it did agree, as a gesture of goodwill, to 
provide a 50% refund.
Mr S was not happy with this response as he said he should be entitled to a full refund. So, 
he complained to Euroins and then brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but found that the 50% refund offer made was fair and reasonable.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
We hope you are happy with the cover this policy provides. However, you have the 
right to cancel this policy, should it not meet your needs, within 14 days from either 
the date of purchase or receipt of your certificate of insurance, whichever is later, 
and provided that you have not already travelled.
[]
If you do decide to cancel the policy during the 14 day cooling off period then your 
premium will be refunded in full, provided no claims have been made or no incidents 
have occurred that may give rise to a claim. Should you decide to cancel after the 14 
day cooling off period no refund will be given.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Euroins doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr Ss cooling-off 
period ended on 21 March 2021. But the first contact about this issue wasnt until 1 May 
2021. Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr S purchased, Im 
satisfied he isnt entitled to a refund of his policy premiums.
Having said that, I do understand that Mr Ss need for this policy changed due to 
circumstances out of his control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Euroins to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of the 
policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding Covid-
19. 
Mr S has said he should receive a full refund of the premiums as he hasnt used the 
insurance. As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of 
the control of both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for Mr Ss contract with Euroins to be performed  cover under the policy started 
on 7 March 2021  so the policy was already in use. This is because Mr S wasnt just 
insured for the dates of travel. The premium charged by Euroins also covered the risk of him 
having to cancel the holiday for any one of the listed reasons that the policy covered, such 
as illness or redundancy. And this was from the date he took out the cover. This is explained 
in the policy wording under the definition of period of insurance within the section titled 
meaning of words. It states the following:
The period of insurance for all sections except cancellation commences when you 
leave your home in your home country to start your trip and ends when you have 
returned to your home in your home country. Cancellation cover for a Single Trip 
policy starts when you purchase this insurance or when you book your trip, 
whichever is the later.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr Ss cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Euroins to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Euroins didnt bear any 
risk under Mr Ss insurance policy. And it hasnt paid a claim in relation to the cancelled trip 
as this has been refunded in full by his tour operator. Euroins was therefore no longer 
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the 
holiday was no longer going ahead, Euroins was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim 
being made while Mr S was travelling abroad. So, I do think it is fair for Euroins to be offering 
a refund.
Euroins has told us that it doesnt break down the premium for the policy based on each 
individual section of cover. But Euroins has said that, based on its claims experience, it does 
receive a higher proportion of claims relating to cancellation  which is the cover provided 
from the date the policy was issued  than it does for claims relating to incidents that occur 
during travel. An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. And based 
on the explanations that Euroins has provided about its reasons for calculating the refund in 
the way it has, Im satisfied it has demonstrated theres a material unevenness in the way 
the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that Euroins hasnt treated Mr S unfairly or 
any differently to other customers in similar circumstances.  
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer which Euroins has made to refund 50% of the premium 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Euroins to do anything 
further.
Im aware that Mr S has complained that he wasnt provided with all of the insurance 
documentation, in particular the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), when the 
policy was sold. As our investigator has advised, complaints about such matters would be 
considered against the company that administered the policy, not the insurer. So, this issue 
isnt something I can look into within this decision and therefore doesnt form part of my 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman