DRN-3690804
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited gave him incorrect information 
relating to his agreement.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £1,000 and the agreement was for £62,250.27 over 
48 months, with 47 monthly repayments of £891.53, and a final payment of £27,250.54.
Mr Ss income had been affected by Covid-19 and BMW agreed to a six-month payment 
deferral (otherwise known as a payment holiday) that ran between May and October 2020. 
They also extended the term of the agreement by six months. In June 2021, Mr S contacted 
BMW about ending the agreement early. And BMW told him that he was around six 
payments short of being able to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement at no further cost.
However, in December 2021, BMW explained that theyd given him incorrect information, 
and that hed need to clear the deferred payments as part of any VT. Mr S complained to 
BMW about the incorrect information hed been given in June 2021. BMW admitted their 
error and explained Mr Ss options. But these didnt include allowing Mr S to refinance the 
remainder of the agreement and the arrears  the option Mr S wanted. BMW also offered 
£50 compensation for any impact of the incorrect information given.
Mr S wasnt happy with BMWs response. And he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation. In doing so hes said that, had he been given the correct information in June 
2021, he mayve acted differently when managing his overall debts. And he wanted BMW to 
either allow him to refinance the remaining agreement and the arrears or allow him to VT the 
agreement with nothing more to pay.
Our investigator said the agreement Mr S signed was clear that any overdue payments 
would need to be repaid as part of a VT. And this would include the deferred payments. 
However, he also thought that Mr S acted reasonably by relying on the information BMW 
had provided to him in June 2021, which BMW accept was wrong. But he didnt think this 
meant that BMW had to abide by the incorrect information they provided and allow Mr S to 
VT without paying the deferred payments.
The investigator said that, had Mr S been given the correct information in June 2021, its not 
possible to say what he wouldve done. And its not possible to rewind whats happened to 
put Mr S back in that position. But they also said that we cant tell BMW to refinance the 
agreement and arrears. So, the investigator said BMW should increase the compensation to 
£250 and come to a reasonable payment arrangement with Mr S to clear the outstanding 
balance.
BMW agreed with the investigator, but Mr S didnt. He accepted that he couldnt definitely 
say what he wouldve done in June 2021, had he been given the correct information. But he 
said that the value of the car had decreased since June 2021, that hed paid six payments of 
£925 he neednt have done, and paid additional tax, insurance and maintenance on the car 
 costs he think he couldve legitimately avoided. And he believes this is a loss of around 
£11,500 that could otherwise have been avoided. So, he thinks that BMW shouldve allowed 
him to VT the agreement in December 2021 and allowed him reasonable time in which to 
repay the deferred payments.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. And BMW have acknowledged that they gave 
Mr S incorrect information in June 2021. As such, my decision will concentrate on what I 
think BMW should do to put things right. However, its not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to tell financial businesses what policies and procedures they must 
have in place  this is something they will agree with their regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Because of this, I wont be considering asking BMW to refinance the agreement, 
over different terms, and to include the outstanding deferred payments. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr S signed on 23 February 2018. Under the heading 
Termination: Your Rights the agreement says You have a right to end this agreement. 
To do so, you should write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be 
entitled to the return of the goods and to half of the total amount payable under this 
agreement, that is £35,076.28. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
any more.
This makes it clear that, when looking to VT the agreement, any outstanding payments 
(which would include the deferred payments) need to be repaid in addition to 50% of the 
total amount payable under the agreement.
When Mr S spoke to BMW in June 2021, they told him he was around six payments short of 
reaching the 50% mark, which would allow him to hand back the car with nothing further to 
pay. While this wasnt the case, Mr S took this to be correct, and continued to make his 
payments. He also continued to use the car.However, when Mr S spoke to BMW in December 2021, they explained that he still needed 
to repay the deferred payments before he could hand back the car with nothing more to pay. 
While I appreciate this wouldve come as a shock to Mr S, he was being told the correct 
position of the agreement. The incorrect information given in June 2021 didnt change how 
much Mr S owed, and he wouldve still owed this amount had he been given the correct 
information in June 2021. As such, I dont think its reasonable for me to say that BMW 
shouldve honoured the incorrect information given in June 2021 and allowed Mr S to be 
able to hand the car back with nothing further to pay.
However, this doesnt mean Mr S wasnt able to VT the agreement. He could still have done 
so and come to an arrangement to repay the shortfall. And Ive seen that BMW offered him 
this option. They explained that he still needed to pay £6,594.89, so could hand the car back 
and arrange to pay this. However, because this amount was more than £5,000, then, under 
their collections process, this matter would be handled through a solicitor. Ive also seen that 
BMWs final complaint response letter, sent on 14 January 2021, reiterated this offer.
Mr S chose not to VT the car at this point, as he didnt want the solicitor involvement. Had he 
been given the correct information in June 2021; the shortfall would still have been more 
than £5,000. And, any repayment of this shortfall wouldve been arranged by a solicitor. As 
such, Im satisfied that, had Mr S been given the same VT option in June 2021, he wouldve 
declined this for the same reason he declined it in December 2021. And he wouldve kept 
the car and continued to make payments. Which wouldve required him to continue to tax, 
insure, and maintain the car while it was in his possession.
BMW also gave Mr S the option of voluntarily surrendering (VS) the agreement, selling the 
car privately, and arranging a repayment plan for the shortfall. Given the sale price Mr S had 
been quoted, this wouldve left a shortfall of £4,306.19. Which meant that BMW couldve 
arranged this without solicitor involvement. Again, Mr S chose to reject this option, which 
leads me to believe he wouldve done the same if given the same option in June 2021.
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think that Mr S is in a different position to 
that which he wouldve been had the correct information been given in June 2021. And, as 
hes continued to pay towards the agreement, its likely that hes now in a position where he 
can VT with a shortfall of less than £5,000, and so avoid the solicitor involvement.
However, this doesnt mean that Mr S wasnt shocked by finding out that he wasnt able to 
hand back the car with nothing further to pay in December 2021. And being given incorrect 
information in June 2021 meant that he wasnt in full possession of the facts to consider 
options such as an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (which hes said was something he 
mayve done). The investigator has recommended that BMW pay Mr S a total of £250 
compensation for the impact of the incorrect advice, and I wouldve asked BMW to pay 
something in the region of this had it not already been suggested. As such, I see no 
compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Putting things right
BMW should pay Mr S a total of £250 compensation for the impact of the incorrect 
information provided in June 2021. They should also treat him with forbearance and due 
consideration when arranging for him to repay the outstanding deferred payments and/or 
any shortfall if he decides to take the option to either VT or VS the agreement.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman