DRN-3813523
The complaint
Mr O complains eBay Commerce UK Ltd (eBay) charged him for a transaction.
What happened
Mr O took a part time job, working from home, advertising items on eBay for an established
business. Mr O advertised a piece of camera equipment for over £3,000.
A buyer sent Mr O over £4,000, but Mr O didnt have the item to send out, this was the
responsibility of the company he was working for.
eBay blocked the payment, stopping Mr O accessing it. eBay contacted Mr O and told him it
would release the payment once hed sent the item. Mr O contacted the business he was
working for, but it wouldnt send the item until it had received the money.
The buyer then requested a refund, but Mr O couldnt do this as the payment had been
blocked. eBay refunded the buyer, but applied a final value fee and a listing fee, almost £400
of charges in total.
Mr O complained to eBay, but it said the charges were in line with its agreement, and it
wouldnt refund them.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr O brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked
into things but thought Mr Os complaint wasnt one this service could look at. The
investigator thought the charges applied werent part of a regulated agreement.
Mr O disagreed, and said he didnt expect to pay anything for a payment that never
happened. Mr O thought it was unfair he was paying something the business he was
working for should pay. And Mr O was unhappy with the service, and lack of empathy, hed
received from eBay.
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to decide things, and I issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Im satisfied the charges applied by eBay are part of the regulated agreement Mr O signed
up to with eBay. So, Im satisfied this complaint is one I can consider. eBay also agrees. Ive
gone on to consider the merits of Mr Os complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete, I can decide things on the balance of probabilities,
whats more likely to have happened.
Having looked at what Mr O and eBay have sent this service, I think its likely Mr O has fallen
victim to a scam. I dont believe there was any camera equipment to sell, and I think its likely
eBay protected Mr O from a further loss, and Ill explain why.
Mr O has sent this service an employment contract with the business he was working for.
This contract has some inconsistencies, but it also appears to be a US contract. The
business Mr O thought he was employed by seems to be a UK only company.
The contract includes references to state and federal taxes as well as labor law. I dont
believe these references would be included in a UK employment contract. Because of this, I
dont believe Mr O was employed by the business he thought he was.
The item Mr O was advertising sold for over £4,000. Looking at what this item costs
direct from the manufacturer, its priced at over £13,000. I dont believe an established
business would sell an item for less than a third of its retail price. And if it did, I dont think
the business would need help to advertise the item.
I believe the low price was to attract potential buyers quickly, people who would send Mr O
the money, thinking they were getting a great deal, but never receive the item in return.
Mr O didnt have the item to send out, he was only expected to advertise the item and
receive payment. I could understand the advertising part, but Mr O was apparently working
for an established company, with its own website and payment facilities.
It seems odd Mr O would receive the payment direct. It appears Mr O was going to forward
the payment on to his contact at the business. But I dont believe that person was who they
said they were.
I think its more likely Mr O would have forwarded the payment to an unrelated third party,
not the business he thought he worked for. And Mr O didnt personally have the item, his
contact at the business apparently did.
Mr O asked his contact to send the item, but they refused to until the money had been
received. Mr O also provided the buyer with his contacts details, so they could correspond
direct. The buyer told Mr O they didnt believe the contact was who they said they were.
Im inclined to agree with the buyer  I dont think the contact was who they said they were.
If Mr O was able to access the payment, its very likely hed have forwarded it to his contact.
Its likely there was no camera equipment to send out, so the buyer would likely have
complained to eBay. And eBay may well have recovered the payment sent to Mr O.
Had eBay done this, Mr O might well have been left owing eBay over £4,000. And, on
balance, Im satisfied this would have happened. The buyer asked eBay for a refund when
they didnt receive the item. I think the buyer would have done the same had Mr O been able
to access the payment he received.
eBay blocked the payment. Im satisfied the terms of Mr Os agreement with eBay allow it to
block payments. And eBays terms also allow it to return the payment to the buyer.
And eBays terms also allow it to charge a final value fee and a listing fee. eBay charged this
amount because the sale of the item had been completed, regardless of whether Mr O
received the payment or not.
When Mr O brought his complaint to this service, eBay agreed to refund the final value fee
as a gesture of goodwill. eBay has since agreed to refund the listing fee as well.This means Mr Os account has been brought back to zero, he no longer owes eBay any
money in relation to the sale of the camera equipment.
I understand Mr Os frustration with owing eBay money for a payment he never received. But
I think by blocking the payment, eBay protected Mr O from a significant future loss. I think
eBay was right to block the payment, and right to return the payment to the buyer.
Mr O has said he wasnt happy with the service hes received from eBay. Ive looked at the
chats between Mr O and eBay. There was clearly a difference of opinion, but I dont think
eBay provided poor service.
Mr O was also unhappy with the lack of empathy, common sense, and the time it took to
resolve things. But I think this was a complex scam Mr O had been drawn into, and I
wouldnt necessarily expect either Mr O or eBay to realise this.
Because of this, I dont think eBay did anything wrong in the way it handled Mr Os request
for a refund or how it handled Mr Os complaint.
Mr Os now received a full refund of the charges eBay applied. Because eBays made this
refund, Im not going to decide if was fair, in the individual circumstances of Mr Os
complaint, to charge him.
Responses to my provisional decision
eBay didnt have anything further to add following my provisional decision.
Mr O sent in further submissions, and in response to my provisional decision said he acted 
professionally as an employee. Mr O also said he tried his best to resolve things with the 
buyer and reported his suspicions.
Mr O felt Id made eBay look like it hadnt done anything wrong, but it hadnt responded to 
Mr Os letters about his complaint. Mr O said if he hadnt brought his complaint to this 
service, it was unlikely eBay would have done anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very carefully at what Mr O sent in. Mr Os sent in an email he sent the buyer. In 
this email, Mr O said thank goodness eBay held the funds.
This is also my thinking, eBay did the right thing when it held the payment over and didnt 
release it to Mr O. There could have been a significant loss to Mr O had eBay released the 
payment to him.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think this was a complex scam. I dont think Mr O acted 
in a dishonest way. I think Mr O was just being used to accept the payment and forward it 
on, I dont believe Mr O was scamming the buyer.
And I can see Mr O contacted the buyer and tried to help as best he could. I can also see 
Mr O reported the matter to the police and tried to take things further when it became clear the police wouldnt be investigating what happened.
Mr O says eBay didnt respond to his complaint letters. I can see from the chats eBays 
supplied, Mr O asked how to contact eBay to raise a complaint. I can also see eBay didnt 
send a final response until this service got involved.
But Mr O already knew he could bring his complaint to this service, hed told eBay that in 
one of the chats. Whilst I accept eBay didnt send a response to Mr Os complaint before he 
came to this service, I dont think this stopped him from bringing his complaint here.
And I have to be mindful eBay refunded the final value fee and listing fee, meaning Mr O no 
longer had an outstanding balance on his account. Im not entirely persuaded eBay had to 
make this refund.
If I was to say Mr O should be paid something towards the inconvenience he experienced 
when eBay didnt respond to his complaint, Id have to balance any payment against the 
large refund its already made. In the circumstances, I wouldnt ask eBay to pay more than 
its already refunded to Mr O.
So, I dont think eBay did everything right here  but I think it did do a lot of things right. I 
think eBay protected Mr O from a significant further loss and refunded the fees hed been 
charged. Overall, I think this action outweighs the poor service eBay provided to Mr O.
Putting things right
eBay has already brought Mr Os account to a zero balance, by refunding all the fees it 
charged. In the circumstances, this seems a very fair resolution to Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Os complaint, but eBay has already fairly resolved things, so 
I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman