DRN-3363364
The complaint
Company O complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) didnt do enough 
to prevent its loss when it fell victim to an impersonation scam. 
Company O is represented by Mr C, to whom Ill refer throughout this decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 9 December 2020 Mr C made a payment of £2,190 from his Clydesdale account for the 
purchase of a shipping container. Unfortunately, this turned out to be a scam.
Mr C contacted Clydesdale about the scam on 23 December 2020. It said it wasnt liable for 
his loss. Clydesdale contacted the beneficiary bank to try and recover the funds but received 
confirmation that no funds remained.
Mr C complained to Clydesdale. It said the £2,190 payment had flagged on its fraud 
detection system as suspicious. It says it took appropriate steps by speaking to Mr C to 
confirm he was making the payment and was happy with the payment details before the 
transaction was processed. Clydesdale added that even if more questions had been asked 
of Mr C, it thought it was unlikely that the fraud wouldve been detected given the amount of 
research Mr C had carried out into the company he was purchasing the shipping container 
from.
Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman. He said he hadnt authorised the payment 
as he didnt know he was dealing with a fraudster. He said hed not acted with gross 
negligence and had been the innocent victim of a scam. Mr C wanted Clydesdale to return 
the money.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She found Clydesdale had 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he had no idea that 
the £2,190 payment had flagged as suspicious  rather he thought it had been stopped 
because of problems hed had with his internet banking password or because the payment 
was unusual account activity.  
Mr C said he was under the impression the checks carried out by Clydesdale were to make 
sure the payment was being made by him. And at no time did Clydesdale say the payment 
was suspicious or that it was being transferred to a high risk account. If it had done so, 
Mr C says he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for similar reasons to that of our 
Investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr C was hoping for and so this will come as a 
disappointment. Im really sorry to hear he has been the victim of a scam and has lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can understand why hed want to do all he can to 
recover the money he has lost. But I need to decide whether Clydesdale can fairly and 
reasonably be held responsible for Mr Cs loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with Clydesdales account terms and 
conditions, authorised payment instructions should be actioned without undue delay. And the 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even if theyre 
duped into making that payment, for example by an impersonation scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, Clydesdale 
also has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, it fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert it to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mr C when he made the payment, and whether it shouldve done more 
before processing the payment. I also need to decide if Clydesdale ought to have done more 
than it has already done to recover the funds after Mr C reported the scam. 
Ive looked first at whether Mr C authorised the payment  that is did he consent to the 
payment by completing the necessary steps to make the payment himself, or did he give 
authority for someone to do so on his behalf. Mr C says he didnt authorise the payment as 
he didnt know at the time that he was dealing with a fraudster.  
I understand Mr Cs point. But the criteria under the regulations consider a payment to be 
authorised if it has been correctly authenticated (so genuine details used to make the 
payment) and if the payer has consented to a payment being taken/made from their account. 
The amount and to whom the payment is made does not determine whether a payment is 
considered authorised for the purposes of the relevant regulations. Here, Im satisfied Mr C 
followed the necessary process via his telephone banking and agreed to the money leaving 
his account. And because Im satisfied Mr C authorised the payment, Ive not needed to 
consider if he failed with gross negligence in divulging information that enabled the fraudster 
to authorise the payment on his behalf, as that isnt relevant here. 
As Ive explained above, Clydesdale arent liable for authorised transactions. However, I can 
see that its systems did identify and block the payment. So, Ive gone on to consider if it 
reasonably couldve done more than it did before processing the payment. Clydesdale spoke 
to Mr C on 9 December 2020 after the £2,190 payment was placed on hold. Ive listened to 
that call. Mr C was asked if this was a genuine payment by him, and whether he was happy 
with the payment details. Mr C confirmed this to be correct and the payment was processed. 
Mr Cs main point is that Clydesdale at no point said the payment had been stopped 
because it was suspicious. He says had it told him that, he would not have gone ahead with 
the payment. He also believes Clydesdale wouldve known the money was going to a high 
risk account and shouldve warned him about this. Firstly, I think it might help if I explain that a bank will often trigger its fraud alerts when a 
payment is identified as unusual and out of character for the account  as it seems was the 
case here. The payment being unusual makes it appear suspicious  and so the terms are, 
to some extent, interchangeable. And so, I dont think Clydesdale not using the term 
suspicious when it spoke to Mr C was unreasonable or misleading. And on balance I think 
its intent behind saying the payment was suspicious was limited to its relativity to the 
activity of Mr Cs account  not for other reasons, as Mr C suggests.
In reaching that conclusion Ive also considered the point Mr C makes about Clydesdale not 
advising him that the money was going to a high risk account. I can see from the sort code 
of the beneficiary bank that the money was sent to an account held with another regulated 
business. But Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest that Clydesdale had internal 
information about the merchant or the account the funds were paid to.   
Clydesdale couldve asked some more probing questions about the purpose of the payment 
when it spoke to Mr C  and that wouldve included alerting him to the possibility of a scam.
However, its hard to see how Mr C would be in a different position had Clydesdale asked 
more questions and given general scam warnings (which is what Id expect it to do in such 
circumstances). Ive no reason to doubt that Mr C wouldve truthfully explained the reasons 
for his payment as he saw it at the time. That being that he was buying a shipping container. 
Id then have expected Clydesdale to have provided a suitable scam warning and to have 
recommended that Mr C satisfied himself that this was a genuine purchase.
But Mr C has said himself that he carried out several checks on the company selling the 
shipping container  which understandably raised no concerns given the fact the fraudster 
was impersonating a legitimate company. And Mr C has said himself that warnings he has 
since found on social media about the scam werent present at the point he was being 
scammed. So, on balance, I think its unlikely Mr C wouldve discovered anything more 
which wouldve alerted him to the scam, and so wouldve still gone ahead with the payment.  
Mr C notified Clydesdale hed been the victim of a scam on 23 December 2020 and it 
contacted the beneficiary bank to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, confirmation was 
received from the beneficiary bank that all the funds had been removed on 9 December 
2020. Clydesdale did attempt to recover the money as Id expect it to do, and so, I dont 
think it needed to do anything else.
So, overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Clydesdale responsible for 
Mr Cs loss in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman