DRN-2961326
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Theyve said that until then their mortgage interest rate moved in step with the base 
rate, and whilst Coventry reduced their savings interest rates by 0.65 percentage points, it 
didnt do the same for their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C applied for the first mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A 
mortgage offer was issued in April 2015 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. 
That said Mr and Mrs C were borrowing £384,000 over 25 years on a repayment basis. The 
product was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, 
currently 1.89%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set independently of 
its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. The mortgage completed in May 2015.
In September 2016 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs C to tell them the interest rate, and 
therefore the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going down. The letter said In line 
with the terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our 
variable mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base 
Rate and the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result we are pleased to 
confirm we are reducing your mortgage rate to 1.64%.
In November 2017 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs C to tell them the interest rate, and 
therefore the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with 
the terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our 
variable mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base 
Rate and the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your 
mortgage is increasing to 1.89%.
In May 2018 a product transfer offer was issued which set out the new product Mr and Mrs C 
had applied for. It was again a Flexx for Term product, which was described as A variable 
rate, currently 1.64%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set 
independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end 
of the mortgage term. The mortgage was transferred to that new rate from June 2018.
In August 2018 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs C to tell them the interest rate, and therefore 
the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with the terms 
and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage 
is increasing to 1.89%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Coventry after the base rate reduction as they were unhappy 
that Coventry hadnt reduced their interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for 
Term product the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 24 April 2020 that it 
needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole, and its priority had been to 
reduce interest rates for those borrowers who were on higher rates. It reminded 
Mr and Mrs C that there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so they could move to a 
different product  or lender  if they wanted to.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree they referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. She said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr and Mrs C aware of the type of interest rate they were taking 
out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
she thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr and Mrs C either taking a new product with 
Coventry or moving their mortgage to a new lender if they felt the interest rate was no 
longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. She felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The interest rate of 1.89% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage market, 
particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
The assessment seems to suggest that they are better off with their new 1.59% 
five-year fixed rate. If Coventry had followed the base rate reductions then their Flexx 
for Term product would have reduced to 1.24%, lower than their new fixed rate that 
they had to pay a £999 product fee for.
Their savings rate with Coventry was reduced by 0.65 percentage points, which is 
unfair and hypocritical. They say it is a simple case of heads we win, tails you lose.
Their complaint isnt about whether or not Coventry followed the mortgage contract, 
theyve always accepted it was entitled to move the mortgage rate as it saw fit. Their 
complaint is that it is unfair.
Coventry hasnt demonstrated how it was fair to reduce the interest rates for those 
customers on a higher interest rate, but not those on the Flexx for Term products. 
They say the only fair thing would have been for everyone to get the same reduction 
irrespective of the rate they were on. They say Coventry shifted the cost of the 
pandemic from higher rate mortgage holders to lower rate mortgage holders without 
any justification.Mr and Mrs C asked that their complaint be passed to an ombudsman to review if the 
investigators assessment remained unchanged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
each of Mr and Mrs Cs points in turn if they dont alter the overall outcome of this complaint.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr and Mrs C but its the 
nature of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our 
findings are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both 
parties. We look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, 
regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs C entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time. I 
cant consider the original advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party 
acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs C.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The 2015 mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFM32 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.89%, which is managed by 
Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.89%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
The 2018 product transfer mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFN10 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.64%, which is managed by Coventry 
Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of 
England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Transfer, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.64%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From those we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.Mr and Mrs C have said that the rate had increased and reduced in line with base rate 
changes. But that hasnt always been the case. Whilst Coventry had changed the products 
rate by the same differential the five previous times the base rate had changed (prior to 
March 2020), the three base rate changes before that hadnt been reflected with a matching 
differential change across the board.
I understand Mr and Mrs C believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr and Mrs C that their interest 
rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offer clearly explains 
the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, 
I still need to decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue J booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer states otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any 
of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or 
those which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) to respond to any increased cost or risk incurred by us as a result of any 
change of use of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or 
without our permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate can change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage 
points. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as the 
costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage in 
isolation. The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its 
mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning 
mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way 
of working, and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. 
Coventry didnt have the same level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced 
previously so theyre not comparable. Im satisfied Coventry has shown that the events of 
2020 were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that Coventry has shown 
that its costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr and Mrs C (customers were paying 4.99% on the 
standard variable rate, compared to the 1.89% Mr and Mrs C were paying). That seems a 
fair decision for Coventry to have made, and it doesnt constitute unfair treatment by 
Coventry to Mr and Mrs C.
The product Mr and Mrs C had allowed them the flexibility to switch to another interest rate 
product with Coventry at any time if they no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for 
money  which they chose to do. There was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or 
other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr and Mrs C 
have said their new rate is higher than the Flexx for Term would have been if the full base 
rate reduction had been passed on, and they had to pay a £999 fee to take it out. But as Im 
satisfied Coventry did nothing wrong when it chose not to reduce Mr and Mrs Cs interest 
rate from 1.89% then it follows I cant hold Coventry liable for Mr and Mrs Cs decision to 
take a new rate and the fee applicable for that.
If they hadnt applied for another product then Mr and Mrs C would have remained on the 
1.89% Flexx interest rate  which Coventry may or may not had varied, in line with the terms 
and conditions, in the future. They could never have been on a 1.24% Flexx for Term 
interest rate instead.
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 1.89% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. 
However, as Mr and Mrs C didnt agree they had the option to remortgage to another lender 
and the only cost of ending their Flexx for Term Coventry mortgage would have been a £125 
mortgage exit fee (as set out in their mortgage offer). Alternatively that mortgage exit fee 
wouldnt have been charged if they chose to simply change to a new product with Coventry 
instead, which is what Mr and Mrs C opted to do. They simply had to pay any product fee 
applicable for the new product they chose, which in this case was £999.I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs frustration that customers paying a mortgage interest rate of 
4.99% had their rate decreased to 4.49%, whereas Mr and Mrs C had to continue paying 
interest at 1.89% without a reduction. But having considered everything, Im satisfied 
Coventry didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but then 
didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020. Coventry has 
sent us information in confidence which shows why the Flexx interest rate wasnt reduced in 
2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr and Mrs C as it is commercially 
sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im satisfied that Coventrys 
decision wasnt unfair.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs C may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman