DRN-3756876
The complaint
Ms H, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms Hs representative carried out some research before making the complaint on Ms Hs
behalf and has told us it is satisfied she had six loans.
Using information from Morses, and from Ms Hs representative, here is a table of the 
approved loans and it combines all the information together. Morses referred to them as 
loans 20 to 24 for the period 2012 to 2016. Then the loan in 2019 it has referred to as loan 1. 
I have renumbered them and I have placed the Morses numbering in brackets.
loan Term Approved Repaid Amount Repayment 
weekly
1 (20) SFS 78 Week 
Loan 
Shopacheck11 Dec 2012 16 Jun 2014 £500 £12.50
2 (21) SFS 78 Week 
Loan 
Shopacheck16 Apr 2013 27 Oct 2014 £600 £15 (plus loan 1 
= £27.50)
3 (22) SFS 50 Week 
Loan28 Oct 2014 02 Oct 2015 £450 £15.75
4 (23) 50 Week Loan 
MCL02 Oct 2015 08 Sep 2016 £450 £15.75
5 (24) 52 Week Loan 08 Sep 2016 14 Sep 2017 £450 £15.75
Gap of around 20 months
6 (1 ) 33 Week Loan 09 May 2019 02 Jan 2020 £200 £10
Morses final response letter did not uphold Ms Hs complaint and after it had been referred 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service it was reviewed. One of our adjudicators wrote a 
formal opinion in which he said that loans 23 and 24 ought not to have been approved due
to harm done by the repeat lending.
So, using my numbering that means that our adjudicator upheld loans 4 and 5. Morses 
objected to the outcome for loans 4 and 5 and has given us additional information not 
available to our adjudicator. 
Ms Hs representative did not respond to the adjudicators view and had sent us no 
supporting documentation for her complaint. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and on 24 October 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision giving reasons why I did thought that part of Ms Hs complaint ought to 
be upheld  that part relating to loan 5.
I gave time for both parties to respond  7 November 2022 and I appreciate that date has 
not arrived yet. But both parties have responded already and so it makes sense to resolve 
the complaint by issuing my final decision now. 
For ease of reference I have set out the provisional findings in the next section of this 
decision and they are deliberately in smaller type to differentiate them from this decision. It 
forms part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms H could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Hs 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Ms H. These factors include:
Ms H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms H. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Ms H for loans4 and 5.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms H was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
My provisional decision findings dated 24 October 2022Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and thought 
about what this means for Ms Hs complaint.
Loans 1 to 5
Ms Hs representative has not responded and so from that it seems likely that Ms H has no issue with 
the outcome for loans 1 and 2 and 3 and so I have not re-addressed them here.
According to repayment records Morses has sent to us, nearly all the loans (for the loan 1 to 5 period) 
were paid on time or a week over the term, and so that suggests there was nothing to prompt 
concern.
And the only loan where the repayment records suggest that there may have been the capital from 
the new loan being used to repay some of the previous loan was when Ms H took loan 5. About £20 
was left to repay on loan 4.
However, Morses has referred to there being three arrears letters sent to Ms H during the period of 
lending for loans 1 to 5. But we have no detail on the dates.
Morses responded to say that for loan 4 Ms Hs weekly income was £240 and for loan 5 it was £178 
and it said those income figures were confirmed. Although the front sheet (the Morses income and 
expenditure record) we had received from Morses did not include these figures I have accepted them 
as correct, but as this is a provisional decision Morses may wish to send us the documents to 
substantiate this. Our adjudicator did not have these figures when he came to his view.
Morses also said that it knew Ms Hs expenditure figures but we have not received those for 
loans 4 or 5.
But, proceeding on what Morses says, it has calculated that Ms H had a disposable income of £140 
for loan 4 and a disposable income of £103 for loan 5. So, it says it used 11.2% of her uncommitted 
and available income for the Morses loan 4 and it was 15.2% for loan 5. Morses did not consider 
these excessive.
I have proceeded on the assumption that the figures for loan 5 were much the same as those given to 
us for loan 4.
Using the fresh information we have from Morses about loan 4, and proceeding on the assumption it 
is correct, then I do not consider that the figures we have for loan 4 suggest that Ms Hs situation with 
taking that loan was harmful in some way. I think that it seems she was able to afford that loan on the 
income and expenditure figures I have been given and so provisionally  on current evidence  I plan 
not to uphold loan 4.
However, for loan 5, there are two elements which arise with the fresh information from Morses. One 
is that this was a significant drop in income from £240 a week to £178 a week for loan 4 and that 
ought to have alerted Morses to a problem. And secondly, I consider that £178 a week income is 
particularly low and so additional care and further checks ought to have been undertaken.
But in addition to this I do consider that the percentage of income used to repay loan 4 was high at 
15.2% and in my view provides me with evidence of Ms H likely to have found that hard especially on 
such a low income.
And by this stage, loan 5, Ms H had been borrowing from Morses for almost four years and for loan 5 
there had been a significant drop in income.
Borrowing consecutively for many months and without any breaks highlights the fact that Mrs H was 
likely to be having trouble making ends meet. I think that by loan 5 Morses ought to have realised that 
she was filling a hole left by the repayments for the earlier loans. And the repetitive nature of the 
lending was otherwise unsustainable. I say this because she had been indebted to Morses for almost 
four years. This was an unreasonably long time to be using high cost credit in itself. But at loan 5 
Ms H was making a commitment to make repayments for a further 50 weeks.I think that Ms H lost out because Morses provided loan 5:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 on the basis that the relationship had been long and 
repetitive and was unsustainable for Ms H. Morses should put things right.
Loan 6
Loan 6 was applied for after a 20 month break and I do consider it reasonable for Morses to have 
treated Ms H as if she was a new customer. In fact, it seems that it did as she was allocated a fresh 
customer number in May 2019.
We have more details about Ms H for the loan 6 application, Her income was recorded as being 
£185.85 a week and her outgoings as £75 a week. This is a low income again at £185 a week and so 
additional care ought to have been given to this loan application. However, it was for a relatively 
modest sum of £200 over a relatively modest term of 33 weeks, and as I have already explained I do 
consider it reasonable for Morses to have treated her as a new customer.
Morses had carried out a credit search in May 2019 and the results have been sent to us. It was 
aware she had been a previous customer of theirs. And it had information which showed that her 
defaults from accounts around 45 months before applying for loan 6 related to home shopping 
accounts (£3,069) and seemed to be historic debt.
The records also told it that Ms Hs total balances on active accounts excluding mortgages and home 
shopping was £3,805. While that is not comfortable it would not be considered particularly high and so 
on balance I doubt that Morses would have been too concerned.
On balance, Morses are used to lending to customers with adverse information on their credit files 
and without any additional evidence from Ms H, and using the information Morses had at the time it 
chose to lend in May 2019, I think the checks were proportionate. The lending decision was 
reasonable. And it appears Ms H ceased borrowing after loan 6.
I plan not to uphold loan 6.
How did both parties respond to these provisional findings? 
Ms Hs representative has said that it will accept the loan 5 uphold if, when reviewing it for 
the final decision, my mind is not altered by any additional information I receive. But Ms H 
has not sent me anything new or made any further submissions. 
Morses has confirmed the details I have relied on in my earlier provisional decision in 
relation to loans 4 and 5 by sending to me copies of the handwritten applications from 
October 2015 and September 2016 (loans 4 and 5). Morses made no additional points.
So, I am satisfied that the figures provided by Morses and on which I based my provisional 
findings were those known by Morses at the time.
As no additional submissions or new evidence has been sent to me then I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusion I came to in my provisional decision and for the same reasons 
I uphold loan 5. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms H at loan 5 in lending chain 1, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms H loan 5.
Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made 
to a third party where applicable, but not including anything it has already 
refunded.
Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Ms H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Morses should pay Ms H the total of A plus B.
The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loan 5 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove them entirely from Ms Hs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above in the putting things right section of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 Rachael Williams
Ombudsman