DRN-4179299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did 
after they made a claim on their legal expenses insurance. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr H contacted DAS and said he was in dispute with a roofing firm. He 
initially discussed matters with the legal helpline offered by his policy and subsequently 
sought assistance with a claim against him for unpaid invoices.  DAS referred the matter to 
one of its panel solicitors. It appears they advised Mr H in March 2020 the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). 
Mr H instructed his own solicitors and was successful in having the claim against him struck 
out. That was because the claim had been brought personally by an employee of the roofing 
firm (Mr D) rather than the firm itself (the contracting party). He contacted DAS in November 
2021 as he thought this showed the advice given by the panel firm on prospects was wrong. 
He felt it should cover the legal costs hed incurred and which he hadnt been able to recover 
from the roofing firm. 
DAS said it wasnt responsible for the advice provided by a panel firm. And having reviewed 
matters it didnt think the claim Mr H had made was covered at all. That was because the 
claim against him was from Mr D who wasnt party to the disputed contract. 
Our investigator thought DAS was right to say the policy didnt cover this claim. Mr H didnt 
agree. In summary he said:
Mr D alleged he had a verbal contract with Mr H and the policy covered agreements or 
alleged agreements. And it didnt say the contract had to be a written one. So he thought 
the claim was covered by the policy. 
He queried why it had taken until June 2022 for DAS to say the claim wasnt covered by 
the policy. If it had told them earlier they would have had more time to find a less costly 
solicitor. 
And he thought DAS were responsible for what the panel solicitors got wrong when 
carrying out their assessment of the claims prospects of success. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I appreciate Mr and Mrs H believe DAS are responsible for what the panel firm got 
wrong. But that firm are a separate firm of professionals to DAS with their own set of rules 
and a different regulator. So, any complaints about the advice or actions of the panel firm 
would need to be directed to them in the first instance and then to the Legal Ombudsman. I 
know in this case Mr and Mrs H have made a complaint to the panel firm and so if theyre 
unhappy with what its agreed, or hasnt agreed, to do their escalation point is to the Legal 
Ombudsman.  
In this decision Im considering whether DAS has got anything wrong and, if so, whether Mr 
and Mrs H have lost out as a result. And in doing so Ive taken into account that the relevant 
rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy. I think its agreed the 
relevant section of cover relates to contract disputes and says we will cover the costs and 
expenses for the followingyour legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an 
agreement or an alleged agreement which you have entered into for: the buying or hiring in 
of any goods or services; or the selling of any goods.
It doesnt say the agreement has to be in writing. So I dont think the fact Mr and Mrs H had 
a verbal agreement with the roofing firm means they wouldnt be covered by this term. The 
issue is the claim that was brought against them wasnt from the roofing firm with whom 
theyd entered into that agreement but from Mr D with whom (as subsequently confirmed by 
the courts) they didnt have a contract. 
I recognise Mr D was alleging he had a contract with Mr H. And I appreciate the term does 
refer to an agreement or an alleged agreement. But it goes on to say that agreement is one 
which you have entered into. You is defined in the policy as the person(s) named in the 
policy schedule as the policyholder which in this case is Mr and Mrs H. And although Mr D 
was alleging hed entered into an agreement, Mr Hs defence of the claim was that he hadnt 
done so and his agreement was with the roofing firm. 
If the policy had referred (as it could have) to an agreement which you have entered or 
allegedly entered into then I think the claim Mr and Mrs H made could have been covered. 
But it doesnt say that and so I dont think DAS acted unreasonably in concluding that, in the 
circumstances of this case, the claim wasnt covered. 
Mr and Mrs H queried why it took DAS until June 2022 to tell them that. From the information 
Ive seen I dont think DAS was provided with full details of the claim that had been made 
against them at the outset. The claim is recorded in its notes as being against the roofing 
firm and thats also reflected in the summary it sent to Mr and Mrs H. 
I appreciate more detail was then provided to the panel firm. It accepted in response to the 
complaint Mr and Mrs H made to it that the paralegal who looked at the case didnt pick up 
on the issue of who the claim was being made by. It also doesnt appear their assessment 
was sent to DAS at the time. As its ultimately for DAS to make a decision on whether cover 
should be provided for a claim, I think DAS should have ensured that happened. 
If it had done, DAS would have been entitled to rely on a properly written and reasoned 
prospects assessment from someone suitably qualified. But in this case the assessment was 
from a paralegal and its not clear whether they were appropriately supervised. In any event 
the opinion failed to identify an obvious issue (who the claim was being brought by) that I 
think it would have been reasonable for DAS to have picked up on when reviewing it. If it had 
done it would have realised the claim wasnt covered by Mr and Mrs Hs policy and theyd 
have known that in or around March 2020. But I dont think theyve lost out because DAS didnt do that. They were told by the panel firm 
cover wouldnt be provided for their claim. So even if DAS had picked up on the issue of 
policy coverage it wouldnt have changed the underlying position; the claim wouldnt have 
been funded by the policy and Mr and Mrs H would have needed to instruct their own 
solicitors at the same point they did. As a result I dont think theres anything DAS needs to 
do to put things right here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 
2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman