The complaint
Mrs T complains that Ford Retail Ltd mis-sold her a payment protection insurance ("PPI") 
policy when she bought a car on finance.
What happened
Mrs T bought a car using a loan through Ford Retail in 2006. At the same time she bought a 
PPI policy which would have paid off the outstanding loan if she was diagnosed with a 
critical illness, or if she died. It didn't include more traditional elements of PPI, such as 
accident, sickness or unemployment cover.
Mrs T says that she doesn't recall taking the PPI. She says she didn't need it. She says the 
only reason she would have taken it was if she'd been told it would increase her chances of 
being approved for the loan.
The adjudicator who reviewed Mrs T's complaint didn't think her complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs T disagrees, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and I've taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, I'm not upholding Mrs T's 
complaint. I'll explain why I've reached this decision. 
Mrs T didn't remember taking out the PPI, which is understandable given more than 14 
years have passed since then. Ford Retail has supplied a copy of Mrs T's credit agreement. 
It has a separate section for PPI  below where Mrs T signed to agree the finance. This 
section makes it clear the PPI is optional. Mrs T signed to say she wanted it. Ford Retail has 
also supplied copies of the demands and needs assessment it completed with Mrs T. Mrs T 
also signed this to say she wanted the PPI, although she ended up taking a lower level of 
cover than was initially recommended. 
I haven't seen anything to suggest Mrs T was persuaded to take the PPI by being wrongly 
informed that buying it would increase her chances of being approved for the credit.
So, although Mrs T doesn't remember it now, I think she bought the PPI knowing she had a 
choice about it at the time. 
DRN-1811407Ford Retail recommended the cover to Mrs T, so it had to take reasonable steps to make 
sure it was right for her. Looking at Mrs T's circumstances I think it was right for her. Mrs T 
was eligible for the cover and doesn't seem to have been affected by any restrictions or 
exclusions.
Mrs T says she had adequate life cover already. But from what she's told us some of that 
was to cover her mortgage borrowing, and the rest may not have covered the full cost of the 
outstanding finance. And I can see that Ford Retail asked Mrs T some questions about her 
circumstances. It seems that Mrs T answered that her existing life cover would not protect 
her estate against liability for the loan and that she wanted the cover. So it was reasonable 
for Ford Retail to make such a recommendation based on the information they had. The car 
was to be used by her husband as a taxi. If Mrs T had died, or was seriously ill,  I think it 
would have been important to Mr T that he was still able to work. 
Mrs T says that she didn't need the critical illness cover either, because she had good sick 
pay from her employer. But the critical illness cover would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay Mrs T got, leaving any sick pay to cover other uninsured expenses. 
Ford Retail also had to make sure Mrs T had enough information about the policy so she 
could make her decision about buying it. I don't know whether Mrs T got all the detail, but I 
think she would at least have understood the policy would pay out if she was very ill or if she 
died. The cost of the policy was clearly set out in the paperwork, and it could have been 
cancelled at any time without a financial penalty. The cost seems to have been comparable 
to other similar policies on the market around the same time. And I haven't seen anything to 
suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs T. 
So, on balance, I don't think Mrs T lost out as a result of anything Ford Retail might have 
done wrong.
Mrs T told us she was very ill while she had the cover. From what she's said it seems like 
she may have been able to make a successful claim under the critical illness cover. Mrs T 
may like to consider contacting her insurer to see if she can make that claim now.  
My final decision
I'm not upholding Mrs T's complaint so it follows that Ford Retail Ltd doesn't have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman