DRN-2432739
The complaint
Mrs H complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) unfairly rejected a claim 
she made for a damaged roof under her landlord insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs H have provided information to us about the complaint. But for simplicity, 
and because Mrs H is the named policyholder, Ill refer mainly to Mrs H from here onward.
What happened
Mrs H has a landlord insurance policy with Direct Line. In February 2020, the flat roof on her 
let property suffered storm damage and she made a claim under the policy. Direct Line 
appointed a third party surveyor (referred to in my decision as S) to inspect the damage. 
During the inspection, Mrs H told S that the roof hadnt been inspected since it was renewed 
in 2011.
Direct Line told Mrs H that a condition of her insurance was that the flat roof had to be 
professionally inspected every two years. As this hadnt been done since 2011, Direct Line 
said Mrs H had breached her policy terms and rejected her claim. 
Mrs H complained to Direct Line, but it wouldnt reverse its decision. It acknowledged that it 
initially sent its final response to Mrs Hs old email, apologised for this, and offered her £45 
compensation. Mrs H was unhappy with this so brought her complaint to us.
Mrs H accepts that Direct Line asked her about the flat roof when she renewed her policy 
each year. However, she says:
In the ten years shes been with Direct Line, shes never been asked if shed had the 
roof professionally inspected. 
She must carry out an annual landlord inspection. Mr H is a builder so checks the 
tiled and flat roofs himself and makes any repairs as necessary. 
If shed been made aware of the requirement, shed have had a regular inspection 
done by a roofing contractor.
She hadnt read the policy booklet and thought Direct Line should have asked a more 
explicit question at renewal. For example, Has your roof been checked by a roofer in 
the last two years?.
Mrs H says her roof repairs cost £2,650. She wants Direct Line to refund this. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
requirement for a biennial inspection was unusual and Direct Line should have pointed this 
out to Mrs H. She didnt think it was fair for Direct Line to rely on the exclusion to reject Mrs 
Hs claim and recommended that it reconsider Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms.
Direct Line disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold the complaint for the same reasons as our investigator.
Mrs Hs landlord insurance covers her for storm damage to her property. Direct Line referred 
to Section 7 on page 17 of Mrs Hs policy booklet. This says, It is a condition precedent to 
Our liability that any flat or felt on timber portion of the roof is to be inspected once every 2 
years by a competent roofing contractor and any recommendations are implemented 
immediately.
The facts here arent disputed by the parties. So the key issues for me to decide are: did 
Direct Line need to draw Mrs Hs attention to this requirement? And was it fair for Direct Line 
to rely on this exclusion when it considered her claim?
First, did Direct Line need to draw Mrs Hs attention to the requirement? I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs H has certain responsibilities as landlord. For example, Direct Line says its a landlords 
legal responsibility to keep tenants homes in good condition. It offers specific advice about 
How to maintain a flat roof on its website. It also points out building regulations require flat 
roofs to be tough, stable and durable. I agree with all of this. I think its entirely reasonable 
for Direct Line to require Mrs H to keep the flat roof well maintained.
However, the policy term goes beyond this. It requires Mrs H to have a formal inspection of 
the roof every two years.
Some commercial insurance policies contain conditions that arent found in other insurance 
policies. As our investigator explained, the above condition is a condition precedent to 
liability. In other words, Mrs H must show shes complied with the condition before Direct 
Line will accept her claim. Given the implications of this, I think Direct Line should have 
highlighted the requirement to Mrs H when the policy was incepted and at each renewal. 
I accept that the requirement is set out twice in the policy booklet: at pages 17 and 20. But 
its not highlighted anywhere else in Mrs Hs policy documents. Direct Line referred us to the 
Product Summary it sends Mrs H each year. This document lists seven conditions. One of 
these is Felt/Flat Roof Condition. But no other details are given so I dont think this is 
explicit enough to meet Direct Lines responsibility to highlight terms that affect the validity of 
a claim.
Ive reviewed the questions in the Statement of Fact that forms part of the renewal each 
year. This doesnt mention the need for a biennial inspection. This supports what Mrs H says 
about the questions shes asked at renewal each year.
Finally, Direct Line says, the condition of the roof is crucial as if its not regularly 
maintained and in a good state of repair, the customer has not reached their legal 
obligations as a landlord. I agree that the condition of the roof is a key aspect of Mrs Hs 
claim. But Direct Line can decide whether it was kept in a good state of repair when it 
assesses the claim. 
The requirement for an inspection of the flat roof every two years was a condition precedent 
to liability in Mrs Hs policy. For the reasons set out above, I think Direct Line should have 
highlighted this to Mrs H at renewal each year. I dont think it did this, so I dont think its fair 
for Direct Line to rely on the policy exclusion to reject Mrs Hs claim.For the avoidance of doubt, Im not ordering Direct Line to settle the claim. Thats an entirely 
separate matter. I just dont think it can rely on the policy exclusion to not consider it at all.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Direct Line should reinstate the claim and 
consider it in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman