DRN-4495406
The complaint
Miss T complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a travel delay 
and missed departure claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T was abroad on a multi-centre holiday. She was due to fly from a country Ill call P to a 
country Ill call A on 19 November 2022. And then she was due to fly back to the UK on 21 
November 2022.
However, unfortunately, on 18 November 2022, there was a crash at the airport in P. So all 
flights from and to the airport were delayed and Miss T was delayed in P, missing both her 
flight to A and her pre-booked flight to the UK. Miss T was able to fly to A on 22 November 
2022 and then flew back to the UK on 24 November 2022. She made a claim on her policy 
for her additional hotel costs and for travel delay benefit.
Admiral turned down Miss Ts claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered 
by either the travel delay or missed departure sections of the policy. It did acknowledge that 
it had provided some poor customer service while dealing with Miss Ts claim, so it offered 
her £25 compensation for inconvenience.
Miss T was unhappy with Admirals decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for Admiral to rely on its policy terms to turn down 
Miss Ts claim. And she thought it had already made a fair offer of compensation. So she 
didnt think Admiral needed to do anything more.
Miss T disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss T, I dont think it was unfair for 
Admiral to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the policy terms and the circumstances of Miss Ts claim, to decide whether I think Admiral 
has treated Miss T fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Ts 
contract with Admiral. As the investigator explained, no travel insurance policy covers every 
eventuality. Its for an insurer to decide what risks it does and doesnt want to cover and 
what price it thinks it needs to charge to cover that risk. An insurer must set out the policy 
terms in a clear, fair and not misleading way. 
As Miss Ts return journey from A to the UK was delayed by around three days, I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for Admiral to consider the claim in line with Section 5  Travel 
Delay and Missed Departure. Ive set out what I consider to be the key terms below:
What is covered 
Missed international departure (outbound or return journey) 
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule to cover reasonable 
expenses for additional accommodation and travel if you fail to arrive at your point of 
international departure in time to board your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train as a result of:
failure or delays to scheduled public transport in which you are travelling. (This 
includes domestic connecting flights that take you to the international departure point 
but excludes taxis)
an accident or breakdown of the vehicle in which you were travelling 
an accident or breakdown happening ahead of you on a motorway or dual 
carriageway which causes an unexpected delay 
strike, industrial action or adverse weather conditions.
Delayed international departure (outbound or return journey) 
We will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for every complete 12 
hours that your trip is delayed if your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more 
than 12 hours beyond the departure time shown on your travel itinerary because of strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather conditions or a mechanical breakdown. We will only pay 
if you have travelled to the airport and checked in and as long as you eventually go on 
the trip.  (Emphasis added).
In my view, Admiral has clearly set out the specific list of insured events its chosen to cover 
under this section in a fair and not misleading way. Having considered the circumstances of 
Miss Ts claim, Admiral didnt think it was covered by the policy terms. So Ive thought 
carefully about whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Admiral to draw.
It's common ground that Miss Ts return flight from A to the UK was delayed as a 
consequence of the crash which had unfortunately taken place in P on 18 November 2022. 
As a result of the crash, all operations at the airport were suspended. This caused Miss Ts 
departure from P to A to be delayed, with a knock-on impact on her planned return to the 
UK. Its clear that the delay to Miss Ts return was entirely outside of her control and I 
appreciate that this must have been a very worrying time for her.
However, I dont think I could fairly find that Miss Ts claim falls within the scope of missed 
international departure cover. I accept that she arrived at the point of international departure 
in A too late to board her pre-booked flight to the UK. However, I think Admiral has set out 
the insured reasons which would lead it to cover a missed departure claim. 
The missed departure terms require a policyholder to have been travelling in a form of public 
transport at the point they were delayed. In my view, this would mean for example, a late-
running bus causing a delay in arriving at an international airport, or the delayed landing of a 
domestic flight causing a policyholder to miss their international flight. This wasnt the case in 
Miss Ts circumstances. This incident causing the delay occurred the day before she was 
due to depart from P and three days before she was due to leave the point of international departure at A. It seems to me then that not only do Miss Ts circumstances not meet the 
contract terms and conditions, but nor were the terms and conditions intended to cover her 
situation.
So in the circumstances, while I appreciate Miss T incurred additional accommodation costs 
as a result of the delay she experienced in returning to the UK, I dont think it was unfair for 
Admiral to conclude that these costs werent covered.
Next, Ive thought about whether Admiral fairly turned down Miss Ts claim for travel delay 
benefit. Travel delay cover only applies to the outbound or return journey. In this case, that 
means the policy only covers Miss Ts pre-booked return flight to the UK, as shed originally 
planned to spend a few days in A. The relevant Insurance Product Information Document - 
which provides an at-a-glance summary of the main policy features and benefits -  also 
clearly states that travel delay cover only applies to the first outbound international journey 
from the UK and final return flight to the UK. So I think the policy documentation makes it 
sufficiently clear that Miss T wouldnt be covered for any delay to her outbound flight from P 
to A.
As Ive set out above, I think Admiral has clearly explained the specific insured events it 
covers under travel delay. I dont think I could fairly class the suspension of airport 
operations as falling within any of those listed events. But even if I were to treat the crash in 
P as a mechanical breakdown which then delayed Miss Ts return from A to UK, its clear 
that Miss T didnt travel to the airport in P. And it doesnt appear that she was able to check-
in for her original flight in A. I understand why Miss T didnt travel to the airport in P, given 
operations were suspended. But in the round, I simply dont think it was unfair for Admiral to 
conclude that her claim wasnt due to an insured event and therefore, wasnt covered by the 
policy terms. 
This means that whilst I sympathise with Miss Ts position, I dont think Admiral acted 
unfairly when it turned down her claim. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could direct Admiral to accept and pay it.
Admiral accepts that it didnt provide the level of service it could have done. And it offered to 
pay Miss T £25 compensation to reflect this. Based on all Ive seen, I dont think theres 
evidence to show that there were unreasonable delays in handling this claim or that it 
caused Miss T avoidable, material distress and inconvenience. So I think Admirals offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable and Im not telling it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman