DRN-3308099
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Tor Currency Exchange Limited (Tor) acted unfairly when exchanging 
sterling currency into Australian dollars (AUD).
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs F  was looking to send money to her son in Australia. Mrs F had used Tor 
before and was given an exchange rate of 1.7565 AUD. Mrs F said she exchanged £15,125 
to 26567.06 AUD. But she said the exchange rate was poor in comparison to others she 
could see. She immediately raised this with Tor and they increased the amount by 370.57 
AUD, they said as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs F felt the speed of their response was unusual 
and has made her doubt this and previous transactions shed with Tor. And whether shed 
been unfairly dealt with by them. She complained to Tor.
Tor said Mrs F had agreed to the transaction after being provided with all the details and 
being asked whether she wanted to proceed. They said the exchange rate was made clear 
and what the amounts would be before and after the trade was done. Tor also said it was 
made clear to Mrs F that her agreement to the transaction was legally binding. When Mrs F 
got back in touch to express her concern the account manager not wishing to upset a 
customer agreed to add a further 307.57 AUD as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with Tors response and views the gesture of goodwill as a 
demonstration theyd done something wrong. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Tor had been clear as to the rates they offered. And didnt consider the 
gesture of goodwill as anything other than that.
Mrs F didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs F has complained that Tors exchange rate was less than the exchange rates she could 
have got from other banks. Shes provided some evidence of this, with exchange rates 
ranging from 1.7680 AUD to 1.813 AUD, all higher than the 1.7565 AUD she agreed with 
Tor. I can see why discovering this was so disappointing, especially as the money was to 
help her son during a difficult time. But this doesnt mean that Tor has done anything wrong. 
Theres no single exchange rate for a currency that all banks must track or replicate  each 
bank will essentially set its own fluctuating exchange rate for each currency, considering the 
various market considerations. And these transfer providers are entitled to make commercial 
decisions about what rates they want to offer at any given time. There could be a different 
rate offered for very large (or very small) transactions  and sometimes it may be possible 
for a consumer sending a large transfer to negotiate a rate with their bank. Its also the case 
that while an exchange rate may appear to be higher than others there could be other 
factors that could affect the overall amount received should fees be considered.
When such a transaction is being considered Id expect the consumer to have the choice 
about whether the payment should be converted to the necessary foreign currency before 
the transfer is made. And If the consumer chooses to have the conversion done they should 
be given clear information about exactly what the rate will be, and how much currency will be 
received.
Ive listened to the transaction call and I think its made clear by Tor what the amount in 
sterling is, the exchange rate offered and the amount this would equate to in AUD. I didnt 
hear any hesitation from Mrs F in agreeing to Tors offer. Or any negotiation to get a higher 
rate of exchange. And the transaction goes ahead as its confirmed - thats locked in and 
the expected delivery date is given. 
Tors terms and conditions say:
If TorFX accepts the FX Order, TorFX shall subsequently provide a Deal Confirmation to the 
Client confirming the details of the FX Order (the Deal Confirmation) either by fax or emai
The Deal Confirmation should include the exchange rate thats been applied, the date for 
delivery, and any charges that could be applied.
The terms and conditions go on to say:
.notwithstanding any omission and/or error in the Deal Confirmation, the FX Contract 
relating to the FX Order detailed in the Deal Confirmation will be binding on the Client and 
TorFX . 
Tor has confirmed a follow up email was sent after the call. So, Im satisfied that Tor made 
clear the transaction details and followed their terms and conditions.
I know Mrs F has concerns about the speed in which the additional funds were offered but I 
havent seen anything suspicious in its nature. Mrs F had used Tor for previous transactions 
and the additional funds I think reflected the recognition that she was a good customer. By 
increasing the AUD by 370.57 to 26937.63 meant the amount Mrs F got in AUDs equated to 
an exchange rate of 1.781 AUD which reflected favourably to the other exchange rates shed 
seen. And Tor didnt add any additional fees or charges to the transaction.
I know Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think Tor acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in their actions with her.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman