DRN-4025250
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (Chase) will not refund 
the money she lost as the result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
On 30 September 2022 Miss T received a call she understood to be from her main bank. In 
summary, the caller said the accounts she held at three different banks had been hacked. 
He advised Miss T to combine all her funds and move them to a safe account. He said she 
should use an alias to ensure the hacker was not aware of this new account.  As Miss T 
hesitated the caller transferred her to his manager for reassurance. Miss T went on to 
transfer £480, £180 and £240 by faster payments from Chase to the new account. Miss T 
later contacted all three of her banks that same day concerned she had been the victim of a 
scam. 
Miss T says Chase were not responsive when she reported the scam, she had to constantly 
chase for updates, and this did not change when she made a formal complaint. It also did 
not send her a security text message warning her to decline unusual transactions as her 
primary bank did. She asks for compensation for the stress Chases poor service has 
caused her, as well as for the £900 to be refunded.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ts complaint. She said she would not expect Chases 
systems to have identified the transactions as unusual so it wasnt wrong not to intervene. 
She felt its recovery attempt was timely. And that Chase had responded within a reasonable 
timescale to Miss Ts initial report about the scam, and then in line with regulatory 
requirements to her complaint.
Unhappy with this assessment Miss T asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss T made and authorised the payments. Miss T understood why 
she was making the payments and where she was sending the money to. At the stage she 
was making these payments, she believed she was moving money to a safe account in 
order to protect it. I dont dispute Miss T was scammed and she wasnt making the transfers 
for the reasons she thought she was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Chase has an obligation to follow Miss Ts instructions. So in the first 
instance Miss T is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors to take into 
account.
I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. To note, unlike Miss Ts 
primary bank, Chase has not subscribed to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) so 
the principles of that code do not apply in this case.
So, overall, I think that Chase should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think Chase ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
I dont find these three payments ought to have triggered Chase to contact Miss T prior to 
processing them. Whilst they were to a new payee, the transfers were not of significantly 
high value. And I can see Miss T had moved amounts of not dissimilar values in and out of 
her account earlier that same month. In addition Miss Ts account was only opened in May 
2022 so Chase did not have a long historical view that might have allowed it to consider 
these payments as out of character. So, in the round, I dont find that it was a failing on 
Chases part not to intervene and stop the payments.  And as this is my finding it follows I 
dont think it made a mistake by not sending Miss T a warning message.
Miss T is unhappy with how Chase responded after she reported the scam. I have read the 
related webchat and can see that it very hard for Miss T not to receive immediate answers at 
this stressful time. But I think Chase tried to manage Miss Ts expectations and did not set 
deadlines that it failed to meet, rather when she got in touch it confirmed her case was under 
investigation and that she would hear back once there was an update. This update was 
given on 9 October 2022, so after five working days had elapsed. I think this was reasonable 
in the circumstances. Similarly I find that Chase met the timescales it must when Miss T 
complained. 
I cannot however look into how it responded to her complaint  I note she finds it was vague. 
But there is a difference between a complaint about a financial service and a complaint 
about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former. Miss Ts concerns 
about Chases response to her complaint is not a complaint about its provision of or failure to 
provide a financial service  its distinctly about complaint handling. And under our rules I 
cannot consider complaint handling.
I have also thought about if Chase did enough to try to recover Miss Ts money once she 
reported the scam. Chase has shown Miss T contacted it first at 21.25 on 30 September 
2022 using its app and that it contacted the receiving bank at on 3 October 2022 to attempt 
recovery. The receiving bank has confirmed that the money was withdrawn from the 
scammers account ten to 20 minutes after the payments arrived and this was on 30 
September 2022 at 17.42, 17.59 and 18.32 respectively. So whilst I think Chase should have 
acted faster, given how quickly the receiving account was emptied it would have made no 
difference as the money had gone prior even to Miss T first contacting Chase.It follows I am not instructing Chase to refund any money to Miss T. This is a difficult 
decision to make, Im sorry Miss T has lost a considerable amount of money and I can 
understand why she would like to be compensated for her losses. I do accept she has fallen 
victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether Chase, which had no 
involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For the 
reasons set out above I do not find Chase can be held liable in the circumstances of this 
case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman