DRN-3437468
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax declined his payment break request
during the pandemic and went on to close his loan and record a default on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr F took out a loan with Halifax in January 2019. After January 2020s payment was 
returned, Mr F spoke with Halifax. The payment was made up at the beginning of February 
2020. Mr F has told us he spoke with Halifax in February 2020 as he was aware he would 
have difficulties maintaining loan payments due to his income being impacted by the 
pandemic.
Mr F made the payment due in February 2020 but the March 2020 payment was returned to 
his bank. On 20 April 2020 Mr F spoke with Halifax and applied for a payment break. Mr Fs 
application was declined. Halifax says Mr F wasnt eligible for the support as his loan was 
already in arrears when he applied.
Mr F has explained that throughout this period he tried to speak with Halifax to discuss 
options for help but experienced very long call waiting times and delays when responding to 
call back requests.
As payments werent made, the loan fell intro arrears and was ultimately closed by NatWest 
which went on to record a default on Mr Fs credit file.
Mr F complained that Halifax had failed to help him during the pandemic. Halifax didnt 
uphold Mr Fs complaint and said the loan was correctly closed as he wasnt eligible for a 
payment break. Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They initially recommended that Halifax rewinds the loan account and remove 
the default from Mr Fs credit file. But after Halifax provided some new information, the 
investigator changed their view. The investigator asked Halifax to pay Mr F £75 but didnt 
recommend his loan be reinstated.
Mr F asked to appeal and said he was impacted by the pandemic which caused financial 
difficulties. Mr F explained hed repeatedly tried to speak with Halifax without success. The 
debt has now been sold to a third party business and Mr F says its harassing him for 
payments. Mr F also said he has finance with another business which was able to offer a 
temporary payment break when he needed it. As Mr F asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Mr Fs 
complaint. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I dont agree Halifax acted fairly when 
it declined the payment break application in April 2020. So I intend to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority issued guidance to lenders. The Payment 
Deferral Guidance (the guidance) explained lenders could offer support to customers 
whos ability to make payments was impacted by the pandemic. The guidance allowed 
lenders to give payment breaks of three months with a later option to extend the break for 
a further three months. The guidance said the payment break wouldnt be right for all 
customers including those who were already experiencing financial difficulties that werent 
connected with the pandemic. The guidance came into effect around two weeks before Mr 
F called Halifax.
Halifaxs response to the investigators original view of Mr Fs complaint said it couldnt 
offer support because his loan was already in arrears. Halifax quoted the FCA guidance. 
But the section quoted by Halifax appears to come from the Tailored Support Guidance. 
The Payment Deferral Guidance for loans says a firm should not give a payment deferral 
under this guidance in relation to a regulated credit agreement where the customer was 
in pre-existing financial difficulty unrelated to the coronavirus.
I dont agree the guidance means Halifax couldnt approve a payment break for Mr F solely 
on the basis he had missed a payment.
Ive considered the guidance and what it means for Mr F. I understand Mr F is a taxi driver 
and accept his income was impacted by the pandemic. I think its fair to say that whilst Mr F 
was experiencing financial difficulties, they appear to have come about due to the 
pandemic. So I think Mr F should reasonably have expected Halifax to have helped him 
with a payment break. I see no reason why Mr F wouldnt have qualified for help under the 
guidance  even accepting the arrears on his loan. And I havent seen anything to suggest 
Mr F wouldnt have qualified for a full six month payment break, in line with the guidance. I 
note Mr F has told us Halifax was able to offer payment breaks for other products he has 
with it, for example.
I need to consider how to fairly resolve this complaint. The loan was closed and sold to a 
third party. Mr F has told us he wants the adverse information to be removed from his 
credit file and to start making payments again. In my view, thats fair.
I can see this issue has gone on for a long time and impacted Mr Fs credit file. And Im 
satisfied Halifaxs actions have caused a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience 
for Mr F since April 2020. So I also intend to award £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Halifaxs actions caused Mr F.
Based on the inform l intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Halifax to settle as 
follows: 
-Purchase the debt back from its new owners, reducing the balance by any payments 
Mr F has made since the loan was closed
-Reinstate the loan account on its systems under the original terms
-Arrange for all fees and charges applied from April 2020 to date to be refunded
-Apply the payment break, backdated to April 2020
-Contact Mr F to make arrangements for either clearing the arrears caused by the 
payment break, extending the term or increasing the contractual monthly payments 
to ensure its repaid by the end of the agreed term-Arrange to remove all arrears and adverse information recorded in relation to Mr Fs 
loan from April 2020 to date
-Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. We didnt hear back from Mr F. 
Halifax responded and explained systems limitations meant putting the proposed settlement 
in place difficult and said a new loan agreement, subject to affordability checks, was 
required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Halifax has systems issues that make reinstating the loan challenging. But I 
have to balance that against the need to ensure Mr Fs complaint is resolved fairly. And, for 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the decision to close the loan was 
unfair to Mr F. 
Mr F has told us he wants to start making repayments and for the loan to be put back in 
place. That would essentially put Mr F back into the position he wouldve been in had no 
errors been made. In addition, removing any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file from 
April 2020 onwards in relation to the loan will mean he isnt impacted by an unfair decision to 
close the loan. 
As no new information has been provided and I havent been persuaded to change my view, 
I still think the fairest approach is to uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Halifax to settle in 
line with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to settle as follows: 
- Purchase the debt back from its new owners, reducing the balance by any payments 
Mr F has made since the loan was closed
- Reinstate the loan account on its systems under the original terms
- Arrange for all fees and charges applied from April 2020 to date to be refunded
- Apply the payment break, backdated to April 2020
- Contact Mr F to make arrangements for either clearing the arrears caused by the 
payment break, extending the term or increasing the contractual monthly payments 
to ensure its repaid by the end of the agreed term
- Arrange to remove all arrears and adverse information recorded in relation to Mr Fs 
loan from April 2020 to date
- Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman