DRN-3183845
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr S had had a bank account with Barclays for very many years. 
Ive looked at his transaction history. Its hard to know for certain from the information Ive 
been given but, based on the account fees Mr S has paid, it appears that hes had a PBA for 
very many years  possibly since before 1999. 
Mr S complained about a Tech Pack being added to his account by Barclays. This 
happened in January 2017. He said the Tech Pack was of no use to him, as he already had 
insurance cover from another source; and he felt he had no option but to accept the Tech 
Pack, as it was linked to his overdraft facility. 
Before January 2017, Mr S had had an Additions Account. This was a PBA which, in return 
for a monthly fee (£13.50 in December 2016), gave certain benefits such as free mobile 
phone cover and free car breakdown cover.
Around 2016, Barclays decided to stop some of its existing packaged bank accounts, and 
instead migrate its customers over to normal fee-free accounts, whilst offering a variety of 
add-on benefits which it called packs. To try to give existing customers a similar level of 
benefits, it changed each customers package bank account to a similar pack. In Mr Ss 
case, it changed his Additions Account to a Tech Pack. This gave similar mobile phone 
cover to what was offered by the Additions Account, but it didnt give car breakdown cover. 
The cost for the Tech Pack was £9.50 per month.
Barclays has shown us copies of letters it sent about the change to Mr Ss address (the 
same address that we have for him). It wrote on 29 September 2016 to explain the change 
and when it would happen, and what choices Mr S had. The letter said that, if Mr S chose to 
cancel the Tech Pack, it wouldnt affect the amount of his overdraft, although it would mean 
none of the overdraft would be fee free.
Barclays also wrote on 20 January 2017 to explain the changes that had by then happened, 
warning that the new fee would be taken out on 1 February 2017.  
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr S didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I want to make clear that Ive only looked at what happened in 2017 when the Tech 
pack was started. Ive not looked into the original sale of the Additions Account PBA which 
seems to have been many years ago. 
I dont regard the setting up of the Tech pack as an actual sale. It was a change in the 
account, which Barclays is entitled to decide to do. I dont see that it can fairly be said that 
it introduced anything substantially new to Mr Ss account. It was instead a reframing of 
some of what was already being provided, as far as that was continuing. 
I think the way Barclays went about that was fair. It gave Mr S a reasonable warning of 
the changes, and explained the details and the choices open to Mr S, including what he 
should do if he didnt want the Tech Pack.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman