DRN-3131948
The complaint
Mr N complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Mr N was given a single loan by TFS. He borrowed £10,000 in October 2017, and 
agreed to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. I understand that a balance 
remains outstanding on the loan.
TFS gathered some information from Mr N before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed 
credit in the past.
Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ns financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient for TFS to achieve that aim  I think the checks TFS performed 
were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of TFSs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
The information Mr N gave to TFS about his income and expenditure suggested that 
he had a large amount of disposable income each month. TFS queried with Mr N 
why, given he had so much disposable income, he needed to borrow further. Mr N 
provided what I consider to be a plausible explanation, saying that the loan would in 
part be used for improvements to his current home before it was put up for sale. 
I think it would be reasonable for TFS to accept that expenditure was needed 
immediately rather than over a period of time that could be funded from monthly 
disposable income.
 
The credit checks that TFS performed showed that Mr N had faced problems 
managing his money in the past  he had a number of defaulted accounts that still 
remained unpaid. But the majority of those defaults had arisen a number of years 
earlier  generally, with the exception of his mortgage accounts that I will discuss 
next, Mr Ns finances appeared to have been more stable in recent times.
The credit check showed that Mr N held two mortgages  he explained to TFS that 
the second mortgage was on a self-build property that had faced some delays and 
escalating costs, and was at the root of many of his historic financial problems. Both 
of his mortgages had been in arrears in the past year  one of the accounts had been 
recently brought up to date, but the other showed as being five months behind on the 
repayments.
TFS appears to have discussed these problems at length with Mr N as part of its 
checks. He explained that his wife was responsible for making some of the mortgage 
repayments. And that, although his account was showing as in arrears, he was 
actually making increased repayments each month as part of an arrangement with 
the lender to bring the account back up to date. So, although these were priority 
accounts that were showing arrears, I dont think that it was unreasonable for TFS to 
accept Mr Ns explanations and be unconcerned about the problems that its checks 
showed.
As well as using the loan for some home improvements, Mr N said that he intended 
to use the borrowing to repay a large guarantor loan, and two other payday loans. By 
doing so it seems to me that Mr N would have reduced his short-term expenditure on 
servicing his debts. So at a time when he was potentially facing some additional 
costs in preparing his house for sale, that might have been a sensible course of 
action. I again think it was reasonable for TFS to accept Mr Ns explanation about 
how he would use the loan, and so it could see that his overall credit expenditure 
would actually reduce as a result of its lending.
So on balance, whilst the credit check results did show some concerning information, 
I think that TFS adequately explored those problems with Mr N. And I think that the 
explanations Mr N provided were sufficient for TFS to conclude that it was likely he 
would be able to repay this new borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, whilst 
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr N, I dont currently think 
TFS was wrong to give this loan to him.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. TFS hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr N has provided some 
further comments. Although I am only summarising here what Mr N has said I want to assure 
him that I have carefully read and considered his entire response.
Mr N agrees that TFS conducted a credit check and spoke to him before it offered the loan. 
But he says it was also clear that he was facing serious financial problems at that time with 
failed credit agreements, CCJs and mortgage account defaults, in addition to two guarantor 
loans that were starting to show repayment difficulties. Those loans had the same guarantor 
that TFS used for its loan.
Whilst TFS discussed Mr Ns finances with him, he says that the lender should have sought 
additional evidence to corroborate what he said. Mr N believes he was wrong to apply for 
this loan in the first place as it would have increased his financial pressures almost 
immediately. The affordability assessment undertaken by TFS showed that previous 
attempts to resolve Mr Ns financial troubles had failed leaving him in further financial 
difficulty. He says there was no evidence that the new loan from TFS would fare any better.
Mr N says that he has struggled to make the required repayments on this loan. He has now 
repaid more than the capital that he borrowed. He says he is not looking for a refund of what 
he has paid, but for TFS to accept that he shouldnt be expected to make any additional 
repayments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont consider that the information Mr N has provided should lead me to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. However I would like to comment further 
on the matters that he has raised.
There is no doubt that the results of the checks TFS performed showed that Mr N had faced 
problems in the past managing his money. And some of those problems were of the most 
serious nature  he faced problems repaying lending that was secured on his home. 
Problems such as those could likely result in Mr N losing his home. So I cannot 
underestimate the seriousness of how those problems should have been viewed by TFS.
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr N told TFS that his previous problems 
repaying his mortgage had been brought back under control. And I am also mindful that one 
of the mortgages that Mr N was repaying wasnt on his main home  it was on a second 
property that he was renovating. So whilst any default on a secured loan could have critical 
consequences, a default on that loan would have been unlikely to see Mr N losing his main 
home.
I have thought carefully about whether it was sufficient for TFS to rely on the supporting 
explanations that Mr N provided. Or whether it should, as Mr N suggests, have sought 
independent verification of his explanations. On balance I think the plausibility of what Mr N 
said was sufficient to make it reasonable for TFS to rely on Mr Ns explanations without 
further independent evidence. His finances did appear to be returning to a more stable 
footing  and Mr Ns explanation of what had caused the problems seemed unlikely to 
reoccur. I dont think there was anything in the results of the checks, or the explanations 
Mr N provided, that might have led TFS to consider Mr Ns finances were continuing to 
deteriorate.
Mr N had told TFS that he intended to use part of the proceeds of the loan to repay some of 
his other borrowing. So the impact of this loan would most likely have reduced Mr Ns 
monthly outgoings and so improved his short-term financial position. I dont think I can 
reasonably consider, given what I have said above, that TFSs actions constituted 
irresponsible lending.
So whilst I understand that my decision will continue to disappoint Mr N, I do not think that 
TFS was wrong to give this loan to him. 
Mr N has said that he continues to face problems repaying his debt. I would encourage him 
to discuss his circumstances with TFS to find a mutually agreeable and affordable 
repayment arrangement. And I would remind TFS of its responsibility to treat Mr N positively 
and sympathetically in those discussions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against TFS Loans Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman