DRN-1689974
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator initially recommended the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H had a medical 
condition which meant she wouldn't have been covered by the policy if she'd had to take 
time off work in connection with that condition. But having considered additional information 
about Mrs H's condition, the adjudicator then decided the complaint shouldn't be upheld. Mrs 
H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint because:
Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where 
PPI wouldve been offered to Mrs H. This shows that she wouldve had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could continue with her application. Eggs 
record of the application data shows that Mrs H selected the PPI. So I think Egg 
made her aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it.
Mrs H may consider she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to sick pay 
from her employer. But Egg didnt recommend the policy to Mrs H so it didnt have to 
check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. As Mrs H chose to take the 
PPI, I think she wanted to protect her repayments against illness and unemployment.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Mrs H has told us she had a medical condition when she bought the 
policy. So she wouldn't have been covered by the PPI if she'd had to take time off 
work in connection with that condition. I think it's unlikely Egg made that clear to Mrs 
H when the policy was sold. But Mrs H has also told us that she'd never had to take 
time off work because of her condition, and that it was managed with medication. So 
even if Egg had made Mrs H aware of the policy exclusion that affected her, on 
balance I don't think this would've changed her decision to buy the PPI. That's 
because I think she would've considered the likelihood of her having to take time off 
work in connection with her condition to be relatively low. The policy was also 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI wouldve stopped her buying it.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman