DRN-1967986
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs E took out the policy in a shop in December 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs E says she didnt know she had PPI, meaning that it was added without her knowledge 
or consent. Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs E completed at the time. There 
is a separate section for PPI. This gives a brief description of the policy and explains that it 
covers the card repayments in the event of sickness, accident, involuntary unemployment 
and loss of life. Within the section there is a box that could be ticked to request the policy  
and the box has been ticked on Mrs Es form. She could have left the box blank if she hadnt 
wanted PPI. Mrs E has queried whether or not it is her that ticked the form. But she has also 
signed the form at the bottom to confirm that the details completed on the form are correct.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Es recollection of 
events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mrs E would have known 
from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. Overall, it seems to me 
that she probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
AXA didnt advise Mrs E to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. But 
it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
I think Mrs E would have known something about the policy  that it would cover her store 
card payments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about 
it. 
Mrs Es employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Mrs E would have received full pay for. Mrs E says her parents would have 
helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change. 
And presumably asking your parents to pay your debts for you would be a last resort. So I 
think that Mrs E had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would 
have been a difficult time. 
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs E wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong. So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman