DRN-1754395
 
The complaint
Mr S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold his a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr S took out in March 2001. 
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA have said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been able to provide a 
recording of the phone call or any notes taken at the time  this isnt surprising considering 
the sale took place many years ago. So I dont know for sure how PPI was presented to     
Mr S or what was said.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has told us including that he wouldnt have taken 
PPI out. But I also have to consider that because the sale took place so long ago, memories 
can fade over time. Ive also taken into account what we know about how AXA sold these 
policies around this time and everything weve seen in the past. 
I think, on balance, its likely through its call script, AXA would have made it clear that the PPI 
was optional and Mr S would have been asked for his consent to the cover during the call. 
Ive not seen enough to conclude otherwise.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mr S. So it didnt have to take steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for him. But it had to give Mr S enough information about the policy to 
decide if he wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  
including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I have in front of me it looks 
like it could still have been useful to him. And I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it. Mr S says he would have held 12 months worth of sick pay at the time of sale. As this is 
quite a high amount, our service asked him for further information about this but Mr S has 
been unable to do this. So, with this in mind, I think on balance Mr S couldve found this 
policy useful should he have become unable to work or unemployed. The PPI policy would 
have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months for unemployment, 
accident or sickness. Theres nothing to show me Mr S couldnt afford the policy. And if he 
no longer wanted it he couldve cancelled it at any time.
I also dont think Mr S would have been affected by any of the main things that mightve 
made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which he was already aware.
So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mr S from buying the PPI. Ive taken into 
account all Mr Ss comments but these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman