DRN-4250715
The complaint
Ms H complains about delays and difficulties amending her address and telephone number 
with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
What happened
In August 2019 Ms H opened a bank account with Halifax online. Halifax has explained that 
its systems were able to verify Ms Hs details and identity electronically so it didnt need to 
request documents from her. Halifax has also explained it didnt obtain a copy of Ms Hs 
signature during the application process. The last transaction on Ms Hs account was a 
deposit of £20,000 which left the balance at £39,000. Halifax says Ms H wasnt registered for 
online or telephone banking so access to her account was limited.
Ms H has explained she moved abroad during the pandemic. In July 2020 Ms H contacted 
Halifax to update her address and phone number with a view to transferring her funds to 
another account with a different bank. But Halifax says it was unable to verify Ms Hs 
information over the phone. Halifaxs contact notes say that Ms H gave a foreign phone 
number during the call but its systems held a UK number for her. 
Halifax says it wrote to Ms H at the address she provided during her call on 7 July 2020 to 
confirm she would need to send it certified identification by way of a drivers licence or 
passport and a utility bill dated within the last three months. Halifax has explained that as Ms 
H wasnt registered for online or telephone banking her options for accessing the account 
were limited. And because Ms Hs signature wasnt on file, it couldnt amend her address 
following a written instruction to do so either. 
Ms H has told us she tried to address the issue again with Halifax in the months that 
followed. Halifax says it has no record of Ms H contacting it again until 2023. 
In February 2023 Ms H contacted Halifax and went on to raise a complaint about difficulties 
updating her details to gain access to her account. Halifax issued its final response on 14 
April 2023 but didnt agree it had made any mistakes. Halifax said Ms Hs account had 
insufficient transactions to allow it to verify her, on a risk basis, by asking questions about its 
history. Halifax explained that as Ms H isnt registered for telephone banking she was unable 
to access her online banking by receiving a One Time Passcode by text message. But 
Halifax added that as Ms Hs phone number had changed since opening the account, it 
couldnt forward a text message to one that wasnt recorded on its systems. 
Halifaxs final response went on to say that it couldnt post a One Time Passcode to Ms H as 
shed moved from the previous address recorded. And Halifax added it didnt have Ms Hs 
signature on file and accepted she couldnt visit a branch to amend her details, as customers 
in the UK would. An email address was given to provide instructions on how to amend Ms 
Hs address along with the documents required. Halifax explained that once the information 
was on file it could update Ms Hs telephone number and she could be registered for 
telephone banking meaning she could then access online banking to access and close her 
account. Halifax didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
An investigator at this service reviewed Ms Hs complaint. They didnt find any evidence of 
mistakes by Halifax and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms H asked to appeal and said that 
in 2020 her UK address had a redirect in place. Ms H added her UK phone number was still 
active until July 2021 and that she had no calls in July or October 2020 from Halifax. Ms H 
said that in July 2020 shed called Halifax from the number registered on her account. Ms H 
said shed given Halifax information about her account and details it couldve used to verify 
her identity and details. Ms H explained that as a result of delays in releasing the funds from 
her Halifax account shed suffered a foreign exchange loss due to movements in the 
currency markets. As Ms H asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can understand why Ms H is frustrated at what feel like unwarranted delays in accessing 
her account with Halifax and the funds it holds. Ms H contacted Halifax as far back as July 
2020 to amend her details, but at the time of submitting her complaint to us, they hadnt 
been changed and access to the account hadnt been restored. But I have to be fair to both 
sides and I think Halifax has made reasonable points in its final response to Ms H and 
submissions to this service. 
Halifax has explained that Ms Hs account only has a very limited transaction history when 
she moved abroad and stopped using it. Normally, Halifax would be able to ask questions 
based on the account history to help verify a customer but that wasnt an option in Ms Hs 
case. Im satisfied thats reasonable. Further, Ms H wasnt registered for telephone banking 
which meant she couldnt access online banking either. Given Ms Hs location, this wouldve 
been the most straightforward option. So Ive looked at whether an error was made. 
In response to the investigator, Ms H explained shed contacted Halifax in July 2020 from the 
registered number on the account. But Halifaxs contact notes specifically show it asked Ms 
H to confirm her phone number and recorded her response which wasnt the UK number it 
had recorded. So Im satisfied Ms H didnt give her UK number when she contacted Halifax 
in July 2020. 
Whilst Halifax didnt update Ms Hs address in July 2020 during her call, it did write to her at 
the address she gave that day with confirmation of how to move forward and what 
documents to supply. Its not clear whether this letter was received by Ms H, but Im satisfied 
it was sent by Halifax as claimed. Whilst it didnt offer to immediately amend Ms Hs details 
so she could gain access, Halifax did provide clear guidance. 
I also note Ms H has told us she contacted Halifax again in October 2020 but theres nothing 
on its contact logs to reflect that. Halifax has also provided an audit trail to show who 
accessed Ms Hs account during this period. Id have expected to see a notation showing someone at Halifax had looked into Ms Hs account around that time, but theres nothing to 
show Ms H contacted it at that time or that her account was reviewed by its staff. 
The information Ive seen shows that Halifax responded to Ms H in July 2020 with 
confirmation of what she needed to provide to register her new number and gain access to 
her account. Ms H complained and Halifaxs final response dated 14 April 2023 gave a 
further explanation of the documents required, how to submit them and why theyre being 
requested. I appreciate complying will put Ms H to some inconvenience, but Im satisfied 
thats offset by Halifaxs obligation to protect customer accounts and ensure its fully verified 
her details. I can see the street name on the final response is slightly wrong, but Ms H has 
provided a copy of the letter so Im satisfied she received it. Im sorry to disappoint Ms H but 
I havent been persuaded that Halifaxs requests are unclear or misleading. And I havent 
seen evidence that supports Halifax made a mistake in this case. 
Ms H has asked for exchange rate differences to reflect movements in the markets. But as I 
havent found evidence of delays or mistakes by Halifax, Im not able to award compensation 
for the losses Ms H has told us about. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms H but as Im satisfied Halifax has followed the correct 
process and dealt with her complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. If Ms H 
hasnt already supplied the relevant information to Halifax to gain access to her account, 
details of whats required and how to forward it are set out in Halifaxs final response. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
29 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman