DRN-2918558
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him after he lost money to an 
investment scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 June 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set out in 
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
Mr K says he found someone on Instagram posing as a foreign exchange (Forex) trader, 
after the account was recommended on another popular Instagram profile. Unbeknownst to 
Mr K at the time, the trader was in fact a fraudster.
Mr K began following the account and over the next few months, says he saw videos of the 
fraudster in professional settings claiming to be on her way to meetings. He said there were 
also a number of positive reviews and success stories on the Instagram profile that 
appeared to be genuine. Interested in making an investment, Mr K contacted the fraudster.
Mr K says the fraudster provided him with her phone number, as well as a copy of her 
driving licence. The fraudster said that if anything went wrong, Mr K knew her address. The 
photo on the driving licence matched the individual Mr K had seen on the Instagram videos, 
which reassured him that this was a genuine trader.
Mr K admits he didnt know much about Forex trading  and he doesnt recall being told 
about expected returns, or the risks associated with investments. He explained hed heard 
about Forex in the past but hadnt paid it much attention, believing most opportunities to 
actually be scams. However he said this account looked legitimate, so thought he would 
give it a go.
Mr K proceeded to make payments from two separate banking service providers. As this 
complaint is against Barclays, Ill only be considering the transfers made from his Barclays 
current account, which were as follows:
payee date and time amount method
payee 1 25 March 2020   
17:34£500 mobile banking
payee 2 25 March 2020   
21:53£1,500 mobile banking
payee 2 25 March 2020   
21:54£600 mobile banking
payee 1 25 March 2020   
22:51£500 mobile banking
payee 3 26 March 2020   
00:03£1,000 mobile banking
payee 3 26 March 2020   
19:28£1,200 mobile banking
Mr K has explained that the first payment of £500 was his initial investment. He said the 
fraudster would send him screenshots of what appeared to be a trading platform, where he 
could see his investment and his returns. 
Mr K said the fraudster led him to believe his investment had roughly doubled in value to 
around £1,000, but to receive this return hed need to pay release fees and admin charges. 
Mr K was also told if he made further investments, hed look to make more profit. Mr K cant 
recall exactly which of the above payments were investments, and which were associated 
fees and charges, but recalls that each time he invested more money, he was led to believe 
that investment had roughly doubled. Despite paying the requested release fees, no funds 
were returned to Mr K at any point in the scam.
After making all payments to the scammer, Mr K saw he had been blocked on the 
scammers social media. Its then he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr K reported the incident to Barclays and it investigated his fraud claim. Barclays was 
initially able to recover £1,166.11 from one of the beneficiary banks. Since the complaint has 
been at our service, a further £702.38 has also been recovered.
Barclays went on to consider its obligations to provide Mr K with a refund. It is a signatory of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Barclays has said Mr K ignored an effective warning it provided when he made the payments 
to the fraudster. Its said that during the payment process, Mr K wouldve been asked what 
the payment was for. While Barclays cant confirm the selection made for one of the six 
payments, for the remaining five, its confirmed Mr K chose the payment reason as friends 
and family. Mr K was then provided with the following warning:
Could this be a scam?
If somebody else has asked or pressured you to make this payment online, such as through 
a social media or dating site, then you should take time to think about it before sending the 
payment.
We recommend that you speak to someone impartial as well.Barclays also said Mr K didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was 
legitimate and ought to have carried out more checks before making the payments.
Mr K disagreed with Barclays so brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the case and thought it ought to be upheld, with Barclays providing 
a full refund. She didnt consider the warning Barclays provided was effective as she didnt 
consider it was relevant in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. She said Mr K wasnt 
pressured to make the payments and spoke to his friends before making the payments, who 
reassured him that there was money to be made in Forex.
She also thought Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief because:
The scammer had thousands of followers and a number of positive reviews, 
indicating a good success rate in trading. Mr K had followed the account for several 
months before making any payments himself to get a better idea if they were 
legitimate.
Mr K had no previous investment experience to rely on, so was more likely to trust 
what the scammer told him
Mr K had been provided with identification for the scammer, which reassured Mr K 
they were traceable should anything go wrong
Mr K didnt question the release fees as he was told they were refundable 
Mr K was told the trading platform was managed by a team of brokers, which 
satisfied any concerns he had about transferring funds to multiple payees.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators recommendations. In relation to the warning Mr 
K saw, Barclays said:
Mr K chose the incorrect reason for payment and should have selected investment, 
rather than family and friends.
In any event, it considers the family and friends warning to be effective as it covers 
social media scams.
Concerning Mr Ks basis for belief, Barclays said that:
It thinks the returns Mr K was presented with (doubling his money within a day) were 
too good to be true and therefore implausible.
Anything can be posted on Instagram and Mr K should have done more than speak 
to friends in order to verify the legitimacy of the trader
Mr K had avoided Forex trading in the past, believing many investments to be a 
scam. With this knowledge of the risks he shouldve done more research first.
The case has been referred to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Mr K under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect Mr K from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr K was tricked into making the payment. He thought he was 
making a genuine investment on a trading platform and that didnt happen. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Mr K to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places 
a level of care on Mr K too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet 
their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, I think Barclays has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Mr K under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Barclays has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr K was making are enough to support its position that he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I 
dont think he had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or 
services and the person he transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr K has said hed had concerns over the legitimacy of Forex trading opportunities in the 
past. He said he hadnt paid it much attention and thought it might just be a scam. However, he decided to give it a try when he found this trader, believing her account to look 
more genuine. I think this demonstrates Mr K had an awareness of the genuine scam risks 
associated with these types of investments - but chose to take a risk by sending money 
anyway. Despite having concerns about Forex trading, Mr K didnt complete any further 
checks on the individual before sending money.
Mr K has said he considered the scammers Instagram page to look more legitimate than 
others hed seen, but Mr K also confirmed that when speaking to the fraudster, there was no 
mention of the risks associated with trading or the potential to lose your initial investment, as 
youd expect a legitimate broker to explain. There was also no paperwork provided with 
additional information on the investment, as would be expected as part of a genuine 
investment. Therefore, while the scammers page may have appeared more convincing than 
others, with testimonials from customers that may have seemed genuine, I dont think this 
outweighs other elements of the scam that ought to have caused Mr K concern.
Mr K has also said he recalls the second payment he made to the scammer was a release 
fee for the returns hed already made. He says at this point he was told his investment had 
roughly doubled, less than five hours after making the initial investment. I think the speed 
and level of return ought reasonably to have made Mr K sceptical about what he was being 
told. Based on Mr Ks recollections of the profits hed made, this also means Mr K was asked 
to pay more in release fees and admin charges than hed actually made in profit  which 
again ought to have raised questions with Mr K.
With all of the above in mind, I consider that Mr K ought to have had concerns about the 
legitimacy of the opportunity he was presented with and that, in turn, ought to have led to a 
greater degree of checking on Mr Ks part. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find he 
had a reasonable basis for believing the opportunity was legitimate and so fell below the 
level of care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Should Barclays have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr K?
Ive thought about whether Barclays did enough to protect Mr K from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr K made this payment, Barclays should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Barclays has said it provided an effective warning to Mr K. Ive considered the warning Mr K 
saw but I dont consider it to be effective  it doesnt specifically cover the circumstances Mr 
K found himself in  nor does it set out the potential consequences of falling victim to a 
scam.
Having said that, Ive considered the payments Mr K made, the overall pattern of spending, 
as well as the reason Mr K gave for the payments. 
When asked what the payments were for on his mobile banking app, Mr K selected family 
and friends. He then made what I consider to be six unremarkable payments - I dont think 
they stood out enough for Barclays to have been concerned that he might have been at risk 
of financial harm from fraud at the time he made them. In reaching this conclusion Im mindful that around two months prior to the scam, Mr K made 
three separate online payments to the same payee, on the same day  so I dont think this 
pattern of spending was particularly out of character for Mr K.
Ive also thought about the number of new payees Mr K was paying, as well as the speed of 
payments. Had Mr K selected the investment reason for making the payment, I think 
Barclays wouldve had legitimate reasons for questioning why he was making multiple low 
value payments to different payees. But in this case, as Mr K selected family and friends, I 
dont think the payments wouldve appeared as suspicious to Barclays, as there are genuine 
reasons why you may pay a number of friends or family payments of this type over a short 
period of time. Ive asked Mr K why he chose the friends and family option  and hes 
explained this is the option he always selects. However, by doing so, I think Mr K made it 
harder for Barclays to detect that he was at risk of financial harm and for Barclays to protect 
him.
Overall, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think Barclays ought to have 
identified the payments Mr K made as having a higher chance of being associated with 
financial harm from fraud, and so it follows that I dont think Barclays shouldve done more 
than it did before processing the payments. 
Once it was made aware of the scam, Barclays acted quickly to try to recover the funds for 
Mr K and returned what it successfully recovered. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think Barclays could reasonably have done anything further to recover Mr Ks payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays position on Mr Ks fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Barclays shouldnt 
be held liable for Mr Ks losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Mr K. 
I do sympathise with Mr K as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt 
Mr K had legitimate intentions to invest and see favourable returns. But the circumstances of 
the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 6 July 2021.
Mr K confirmed he had nothing further to add - but asked if Barclays would be willing to 
provide any form of compensation. Barclays has not provided a response to my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or arguments, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings, and I remain of the view that this complaint should not 
be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
I understand entirely Mr Ks strength of feeling in this case  but as I havent found that 
Barclays has made an error when assessing his fraud claim, Im unable to recommend 
Barclays makes any offer of compensation to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman