DRN-3564280
The complaint
Mr A complains Wakam unfairly declined a claim he made on his contents insurance policy 
following damage to a television and laptop.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr A has a contents insurance policy underwritten by Wakam. 
Mr A says his television fell off the wall of his house when the mounting bracket 
failed. He says this caused damage to the television and a laptop that was close by 
so he made a claim on his policy.
Wakam declined the claim as it didnt think the photos of the wall damage supported 
Mr As story. It also thought he had knowingly provided inaccurate information 
relating to the laptop and so it applied a fraud condition and declined the whole claim.
Our Investigator considered the evidence, which in this case was limited as Wakam 
failed to provide its version of events. In the absence of supporting comments or 
evidence from Wakam, he upheld the complaint and told Wakam to pay the claim 
relating to the television damage and pay £100 compensation. But he wasnt 
persuaded there was sufficient evidence to pay the laptop claim.  
Mr A accepted this recommendation; again, Wakam failed to respond so the 
complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator told Wakam about the complaint on 3 March 2022 and 28 April 
2022, asked it to provide its file on 12 May 2022 and then issued a final reminder on 
9 June 2022. None of these communications prompted a response or the provision of 
evidence from Wakam.
He explained he would go ahead and issue his findings if it didnt provide its file and 
ultimately, the case would be put in front of an Ombudsman to reach a decision. 
Im satisfied Wakam has had ample opportunity to respond to this Service. And in the 
absence of its input, Ive had to base my decision on the limited available evidence.
Television damage
In its claim decline letter, Wakam said Mr As version of events around the damage to 
the television wasnt supported by the evidence. But it hasnt provided any of this 
evidence or expert opinion to this Service for us to consider. So I only have Mr As 
version of events to take account of.
Mr A says the television fell from the wall after his neighbour had been undertaking 
some work on the other side of the shared wall between their properties. This 
explanation seems reasonable to me given Mr As description of the work.
Im therefore satisfied its more likely than not, the damage caused to the television 
happened suddenly and unexpectedly when the mounting bracket failed and the 
television fell to the floor. Having looked at the terms of the policy, Im satisfied this 
kind of accidental damage is an insured risk. So, I will be directing Wakam to pay this 
part of the claim.
Laptop damage
Mr A appears to accept our investigators findings on the laptop. I see no reason to 
repeat their reasoning again, suffice to say Im satisfied theres insufficient evidence 
to safely conclude the damage to the laptop happened as a result of this incident so I 
wont be upholding this part of the claim.
The fraud condition
The fraud bar is a high one to meet and Ive not been provided with any of the 
photographic or expert evidence which Wakam relied on to support its position on the 
way the television damage occurred. As I explained above, I think Mr As explanation 
is a reasonable one.
I also havent seen any evidence about the dates when the laptop was  and wasnt 
 working. In the absence of this, Ive considered the other evidence and Mr As 
testimony. Hes explained English isnt his first language and it seems a reasonable 
position that his explanations around events may have been impacted by this.  
Overall, Im not persuaded Wakam has done enough to show it fairly applied the 
fraud condition. So, Ill be directing Wakam to remove any fraud markers or 
cancellations on any relevant databases.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive thought about this carefully and have decided Wakam should also pay Mr A £100 
for the distress and inconvenience its caused him for its poor claim handling and the 
unfair decline of his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Wakam to:
Pay the claim for the damaged television.
Return any of Mr As items still in its possession, apart from the television.
Remove any reference to fraud or policy cancellation from any relevant databases.
Pay Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman