DRN-2819413
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about a mortgage he holds with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). 
He isnt happy with the loan-to-value (LTV) it attributed to his mortgage in November 2020 
when he wanted to take a new fixed interest rate product. He believes TMW has the LTV 
wrong and hes being financially disadvantaged because of that.
What happened
In early 2016 Mr J re-mortgaged what had been his residential property with a buy-to-let 
(BTL) mortgage with TMW. TMW had the property valued at the end of 2015 and its value 
was established as £675,000. He took an interest only mortgage of just over £400,000 on 
the property. A five-year interest rate product was added to the mortgage at 3.29% fixed.
When the end date of Mr Js interest rate product was approaching, he looked into taking 
another one. The rate he was able to apply for was determined by what the LTV was 
considered to be at the time. TMW used an automated system, provided by an independent 
source, to update values for properties it has mortgages on to determine the then current 
LTV. The system took account of changes to the house price index (HPI). If a mortgagor 
disagrees with the valuation the automated system provided, TMW gives them the option of 
paying for a physical valuation to be done.
The value attributed to the property by the automated system was lower than the amount the 
property was valued at before the re-mortgage in 2016. This increased the LTV to over 85% 
and so Mr J didnt have access to what he considered to be more beneficial interest rate 
products. He complained to TMW.
TMW responded to Mr Js complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained the LTV for a 
property was based on the house price index (HPI) which changes quarterly. The change in 
October 2020 resulted in the value of the property reducing. It said it would arrange for the 
property to be physically valued, but Mr J would need to pay for the valuation to be done.
Mr J remained unhappy and asked this service to consider his complaint. He said he thought 
that TMW mistakenly recorded in its records the amount of his mortgage in 2016 as the 
house value. This had meant the indexed value of the property was much lower than it 
should have been. 
Following the referral to this service, TMW said that it would arrange for an alternative form 
of statistical revaluation to be done. Although TMW commented that Mr Js property was in a 
rural location with a lack of comparable sale, so there might be difficulties in doing so. As 
such, it might still be necessary for physical valuation to be done.
Our investigator explained to Mr J that TMW hadnt done anything wrong, but had decided 
as a gesture of goodwill to complete another revaluation. She thought TMW had acted 
reasonably in the circumstances.
Unfortunately, TMW was unable to complete the alternative revaluation for the property 
because of the lack of sales of comparable properties. TMW confirmed it could still arrange a 
physical valuation, but Mr J would have to pay for it.
Mr J wasnt happy with this response, but he instructed TMW to complete a physical 
valuation. As agreement on the outcome of the complaint couldnt be reached, it was 
decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
Subsequently Mr J provided screen shots of a house price index calculator based on 
different values in 2015 and different dates in 2020 and 2021. He considered this evidenced 
that TMW had recorded his house price in 2015 incorrectly as the amount of the mortgage 
rather than the amount recorded on the valuation. 
Mr J subsequently confirmed that the new valuation had been completed. Although the 
valuation concluded the property was worth less than it had been in 2015, the value was 
high enough to allow Mr J to take out a new interest product he was happy with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most lenders offer different interest rate products depending on the LTV of a property. Its 
standard practice for the LTV to be reassessed before a new rate is issued. Due to the cost 
of a physical valuation, lenders will use statistical data to update the value of a property to 
calculate the LTV. There is nothing wrong with a lender doing this as in most cases it saves 
the customer the cost of a new valuation.
In this case TMW used an external provider to determine the then current value of the 
property. I dont think TMW did anything wrong in doing this. Nor was it wrong to rely on the 
valuation produced. 
When Mr J was unhappy about the value the automated system attributed to his home, he 
was given the option of paying for a physical valuation. This is again entirely reasonable.
I know that this will disappoint Mr J, but I am not persuaded that TMW did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Iam required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
20 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman