DRN-1505623
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) have charged 
interest on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) order that she thought she'd paid off in full.
Background
In early 2018, Mrs C purchased three items from Shop Direct on a BNPL basis. In order to 
avoid paying interest, she needed to pay the full balance off before the BNPL period ended 
12 months later.
About a month before the BNPL period ended, Mrs C paid off two of the items in full. She 
also made two payments towards the third item. She then thought that she'd made a final 
payment to pay this item off in full. But Shop Direct didn't receive this payment, so they 
charged her interest on the third item.
Mrs C is unhappy that they charged her interest. She thought that she'd received a text 
message saying the item had been paid off in full. She also says that Shop Direct could've 
contacted her and let her know the full balance hadn't been paid, so she could make the final 
payment. 
She says she's been a good customer and made her payments in good faith, but they have 
simply quoted the terms and conditions at her and not thought about the individual 
circumstances of her complaint.
Mrs C also complains that Shop Direct have charged her interest on the full amount, when 
she had already paid off most of the balance. And she says they haven't told her how much 
she still owes on this order. 
Mrs C complained to Shop Direct, but they said that they still believed the interest had been 
applied correctly.
Mrs C remained unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator thought it was 
likely that Mrs C still owed the full balance for the third item when the BNPL period ended. 
So it was fair for Shop Direct to apply the interest to this item. 
Mrs C didn't accept our investigator's opinion. She said that she'd definitely made some 
payments towards the third item. And she felt that Shop Direct should've used their 
discretion and tried to sort out the mistake, rather than charging her interest.
The case has now come to me for a decision
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've reviewed the statements for Mrs C's account. These show that she purchased three 
items in early 2018, priced at £15, £49 and £161. Around six weeks before the end of the period, Mrs C made a payment of £15, which she 
allocated to the £15 item, paying it off in full.
Two weeks later, she made a payment of £49. This was allocated to the £49 item, also 
paying it off in full. This left the £161 item to be paid off. 
And I can see from the statements that Mrs C also made two payments towards the £161 
item, around a week after her £49 payment. 
These payments were for £61 and £39. So they reduced the balance owed on the item, but 
didn't pay it off in full. There was still an outstanding balance on this item at the end of the 
BNPL period. So it was reasonable for Shop Direct to apply interest on this item.
Mrs C argues that, as she'd paid off part of the balance of the item, Shop Direct shouldn't 
have charged interest on the full amount. But the terms and conditions of the account show 
interest is calculated from the date of the order, compounded every 28 days. Interest is then 
applied as a lump sum immediately after the BNPL period ends.
For Mrs C, this means that interest was calculated on the full balance of the item, 
compounded every 28 days, for the 12 months after she purchased it. So although she paid 
off part of the outstanding balance towards the end of this period, the interest had been 
accruing throughout the year. 
And as she didn't completely pay off the balance before the end of the BNPL period it was 
reasonable for Shop Direct to apply the full interest she'd accrued on this item. No interest 
was charged on the items paid for in full, before the end of the BNPL period.
Mrs C says that she received a text message saying the entire balance had been paid off. 
She no longer has this message and Shop Direct say they don't send messages confirming 
that a balance has been paid off. 
I accept that Mrs C probably did receive a text message about her account from Shop Direct, 
but she hasn't been able to provide a copy of this message. Shop Direct have told us they 
do acknowledge payments received by text message. So I think on balance Mrs C is 
mistaken about the content of the message she received.
Mrs C says that Shop Direct could've let her know she hadn't paid off the whole balance. But 
they provide statements each month which confirm how much is due and when it needs to 
be paid by in order to avoid interest. And it isn't reasonable to expect them to contact every 
customer to warn them they haven't paid their full BNPL balance. 
Mrs C also says Shop Direct could've used their discretion and tried to resolve the situation 
with her, rather than just quoting the terms and conditions. But Mrs C agreed to be bound by 
the terms and conditions when she entered the credit agreement. Her monthly statement 
showed her how much was outstanding on her account. And as there was an outstanding 
balance at the end of the BNPL period Shop Direct have simply applied the terms and 
conditions, in the way Mrs C was told they would. I think it was fair and reasonable for them 
to do this.
Finally, Mrs C says that Shop Direct haven't told her how much she still owes on this order. 
But the outstanding balance and interest were simply transferred to the existing balance of 
her account. It was reasonable for Shop Direct to do this, and it was clearly shown on the 
statements that this is what had happened.I believe that Shop Direct have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs C. So I won't be 
asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold Mrs C's complaint against Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman