DRN-2922937
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services. She 
also says the car was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
two and a half years old and had already completed about 20,500 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Miss B says there is a fault with the hand brake, but Ive not seen any further evidence that 
is the case. The dealership have explained that theyve looked at the hand brake but could 
find no faults. In the absence of evidence to the contrary I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest this car was of unsatisfactory quality.
misrepresentation
If Miss B was told something that was wrong and if that led her to enter into an agreement 
she would not have otherwise entered into, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented and Id ask VWFS to take some further action.
Miss B says she was misled about the mileage on the car when the agreement was 
established. There was a difference of 87 miles between what was reported initially and what 
the mileage was later amended to. I dont think that sort of discrepancy would have a 
bearing on whether Miss B was prepared to take out the agreement. It wouldnt for instance, 
be likely to impact the price of the car, so I am not persuaded the car was misrepresented to 
her on that basis.
Miss B also says she was told the car had hill start but the dealership dispute that and in 
the absence of any further corroborating information I think its most likely that Miss B would 
have had enough information available to her (on line and in the vehicle specification) to 
understand this model of car does not come with hill assist. 
Ive also considered if the car was mis-sold to Miss B because the dealership should have 
advised her that diesel was not the best option. Ive not seen that the car being a diesel 
version is the reason Miss B is dissatisfied with it. It seems the hand brake and hill start 
concerns are what led Miss B to leave the car at the dealership. Whilst Miss B has explained 
she drives very limited mileage Ive not seen evidence that the dealership were aware of this 
and, on balance, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest the car had been 
misrepresented on this basis.
And overall, I dont think it would be fair to ask VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman