DRN-2060844
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) cancelled his car 
insurance policy without explaining the full premiums would still be payable. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K contacted Admiral on 6 July 2019 to ask it to cancel his policy with immediate 
effect. Admiral responded the next day to ask him to give his reason for cancelling. 
Mr K said the car would be off the road for an indefinite time and that he might sell 
it. Given this, I dont think Admiral did anything wrong in cancelling the policy with 
effect from 6 July 2019 as it was given clear instructions to do so.
Admiral told Mr K, having cancelled his policy, that there was an outstanding balance 
of £904.92. Mr K thought the cost of cancellation would be around £50. He feels its 
unfair that Admiral cancelled his policy without making him aware that the full 
premium would still be due. But a claim was made against Mr K, which Admiral made 
him aware of on 20 June 2019. And the terms and conditions of the policy state If 
you have made a claim, or a claim has arisen during the period of insurance for your 
car, your cars part of the premium is due, and no refund will be given, regardless of 
the payment method. If this policy has only one car on cover, then the total premium 
is due, and no refund will be given So Im satisfied that the full premiums are 
payable, and that this information was available to Mr K.
Mr K asked for the policy to be reinstated. As the premiums are due anyway, he 
didnt feel it was worthwhile to have cancelled. But Admiral didnt reinstate his policy. 
Mr K was unhappy with the reason it gave him for not reinstating the policy, 
suggesting it was because the car was SORN (Statutory Off Road Notification) 
though he was still taxing it. But Admiral isnt obligated to reinstate the cover  this is 
a legitimate commercial decision with which I wouldnt generally interfere. And, 
regardless of the reason it gave, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to 
do so, unless I thought it had made a mistake in cancelling the cover  which I dont 
think it did. 
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration here. He thinks Admiral shouldve made him aware of 
the consequences of cancelling the policy before proceeding. But I think that, 
especially given that there was an ongoing claim (which was settled in February 
2020) it was for Mr K to query this before giving clear and concise instructions for the 
policy to be cancelled immediately.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman