DRN-2876740
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) has handled a 
claim he made for damage caused by subsidence under his commercial property insurance 
policy.   
What happened
 In late 2018, Mr G contacted CTI to make a claim as hed noticed some damage he thought 
could have been caused by subsidence. Mr Gs property is made up of two buildings, Ill 
refer to those as A and B. Mr G lives in one of those buildings (B), the other he runs as a 
bed and breakfast (A). CTI asked Mr G to provide a report on the likely cause of the 
damage. Mr Gs report from a structural engineer, K, said the buildings were inherently 
vulnerable due to partial basements and movement was likely caused by clay shrinkage due 
to the hot summer of 2018. It recommended some further investigations. Most of the reports 
and recommendations that have followed have focused on property B as this is the one 
worst affected by the subsidence.
CTIs loss adjuster agreed further investigations would need to be carried out. At this point 
Mr G appointed another expert  a geo-environmental engineer R. Its report was in two 
parts  provided in March and August 2019. It reiterated concerns about the foundations and 
concluded underpinning would be necessary because the trees likely to have caused the 
damage were protected by tree preservation orders, and so would be difficult to remove. 
Mr G wanted CTI to underpin his properties, but it didnt agree to this without further 
investigation. 
An arborist report (J) was commissioned in September 2019. This recommended that a 
horse chestnut tree be removed to stabilise the property. It later said a further two horse 
chestnut trees should be removed, a beech tree and a section of a hedge. Other trees such 
as copper beech trees and a different hedge should be maintained at their current level.
Mr G was unhappy that CTI were pursuing the trees as a possible cause for subsidence. 
Due to the ongoing dispute on the cause of the damage, a structural engineering firm P was 
appointed, it provided a report in April 2020. It concluded the most recent movement was 
caused by nearby trees and recommended the removal of three horse chestnut trees, a 
beech tree and partial removal of a hedge. It also said consideration should be given to 
removing a group of Copper Beach which may have the potential to influence the 
foundations. It also thought a full drainage survey should be carried out to ensure the drains 
werent exacerbating the problems with the soil. 
Mr G complained to CTI in April 2020. He complained about CTIs findings and methods of 
investigation, and that it had set out to implicate the trees from the start of the claim. He also 
said CTIs loss adjuster wasnt answering his questions and had tried to pressure him into 
taking out a drainage survey. Mr G also complained that CTI had refused to renew his policy 
in 2020, even though there was an ongoing subsidence claim. Mr G maintained that the 
property should be underpinned. 
Following his complaint, Mr G hired an environmental consultant A. He also hired his own 
drain expert, T, to provide a report. These were done in September and October 2020. As 
view was there was no justification for trees being removed. It thought the subsidence could 
have been caused by excess hydration of the soils being unable to support the properties 
shallow foundations. It also recommended the drains be inspected. Ts report said there was 
no issues with the drains. 
CTI said it hadnt discounted underpinning as a possibility, but it needed to carry out the 
investigations recommended by several different engineers, to establish the cause of the 
damage. It said Mr G had refused access when the drains were to be inspected, and his 
actions had caused a delay in CTI assessing the cause of the damage, so it couldnt move 
the claim forward. 
Mr G also felt property A had been forgotten. And if CTI felt the movement to property A was 
historic only, he wanted it to provide him with a certificate of structural integrity to provide to 
new insurers.
Our investigator reviewed the reports provided by both parties. He thought they agreed the 
shallow foundations of the property have made them vulnerable to differential movement. 
But he didnt think CTI had acted unreasonably in pursuing the removal of trees as a 
preferred method of managing the subsidence affecting the property.
Taking all of this into account, our investigator was most persuaded by the arborists report 
by J. He felt the recommendations in Js report should be followed but didnt think all of the 
trees mentioned in Ps report needed to be removed. 
Our investigator thought CTIs proposal of monitoring the cracks whilst investigations were 
taken into the drains was reasonable based on the evidence hed seen. He also said for 
property A, monitoring had been recommended but not yet agreed, so he felt that needed to 
happen. But he said without carrying out any repairs to A, it wouldnt be reasonable to ask 
CTI to provide a certificate of structural integrity. 
In relation to the policy renewal issue, our investigator thought CTI had acted unreasonably 
in not offering cover whilst the subsidence claim was ongoing. He thought under the ABI 
agreement, it should have continued to provide Mr G with cover for his property, even for the 
subsidence. Our investigator said CTI should reassess the risk of the property to decide if it 
would have offered cover [regardless of the subsidence claim]. He said if CTI would have 
offered a policy to Mr G  it should provide him with a quote. As Mr G had found alternative 
cover  without subsidence  our investigator said CTI needed to provide Mr G with a policy 
that covered him for subsidence only if thats what he wanted. And it should pay any 
difference between what Mr G paid for his policy in 2020 and what CTI would have charged 
had the original policy continued, plus interest.
CTI accepted the findings of our investigator. Mr G didnt. He provided extensive 
commentary, including from his expert A as how he wants the claim to proceed. A agreed 
further investigation was required, but maintained there was no basis for implicating the 
trees. Mr G also said he hadnt been reimbursed for the reports hed had carried out, and he 
wanted some assurance that any future reports he commissioned would be paid for by CTI.
Our investigator wrote a follow up assessment. He noted CTI had provided a further report 
from the arborist J dated April 2020, which he hadnt seen before. He maintained CTI were 
reasonable in following the recommendations of J in relation to the trees. 
Our investigator said CTI should liaise with Mr G and A to agree and arrange further 
investigations into the source of any excess moisture in the soils. He said CTI should also 
continue to monitor property B and start monitoring property A to establish the extent to 
which movement is ongoing and whether the trees can be proven to be the cause. Our 
investigator said whilst Mr G had argued the arborist report from J should be excluded, he 
hadnt seen any evidence to say it should be. And if Mr G wanted to provide his own arborist 
report, CTI should consider it.Since the complaint has been referred for a final decision, Mr G has provided another report 
from an arborist E in July 2021. As well as more comments from A and a further report from 
K who wrote the original 2018 report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CTIs final response to this complaint was in April 2020. Matters have moved on 
considerably since then, with more reports and commentary being provided. For clarity, this 
decision will cover matters up until October 2021. Im aware this is on ongoing claim and Mr 
G is looking to provide further representations in support of his case, but in order to be able 
to move the complaint forward, I will look at all the reports provided up until July 2021. As far 
as Im aware there are no further reports to consider between July and October 2021. 
CTI has accepted a claim for subsidence damage, the issue here is a disagreement between 
it and Mr G about how to move the claim forward. Mr G feels CTI has pursued the trees as a 
cause of the subsidence from the outset, without considering other factors. He feels it has 
exerted pressure and leverage in its reports to fit its agenda. As of October 2021, there has 
been little progress to the claim given the opposing views. 
I think its important to set out to Mr G the remit of my decision, my role is to independently 
weigh up the evidence provided by both sides, to determine if CTI has treated him fairly. 
Mr G has asked me to confirm whether Im discounting any reports from the business, as 
some he sees as controversial. In considering the case Ive reviewed all of the reports sent 
to me by both parties. I can confirm I havent discounted any without them being considered 
 out of fairness to both parties. 
There is extensive correspondence on this file, as an informal service, I wont respond to 
every issue Mr Gs raised. This decision will focus on the main reasons for the outcome Ive 
reached. 
Should CTI have agreed to underpin the property at the start of the claim
Since Mr G has said from the outset that he wanted the property to be underpinned, Ive 
firstly considered all of the reports to decide if CTI has acted fairly and reasonably in not 
agreeing to underpin the property at this stage. 
Mr G has pointed to a report from March 2019 from R an environmental geotechnical 
specialist. This report says the soil on which the property sits is weak, and so the building 
should be underpinned. Mr G says other reports  such as the original one carried out in 
October 2018 by K - agree on the soil being the reason for the movement. 
Having read the reports, Im not persuaded that CTI should have underpinned the property 
on receipt of them. I find the March 2019 report by R doesnt comment on the damage to the 
property and the likely cause. Nor does it consider any other alternative to underpinning and 
why it would be unsuccessful. And whilst the report in 2018 by K did comment on the soil 
weakness, the conclusion of that report was that the dry summer of 2018 had resulted in 
clay shrinkage of the soil. It recommended further investigations into the trees and drains but 
didnt suggest a method of repair. So it doesnt conclude that the only viable repair would be 
to underpin the property. In August 2019, following some questions from the insurer, R issued an addendum to its 
March 2019 report. In this, it said underpinning would be most suitable as some of the trees 
are protected, and so cant be removed. I accept that underpinning is an effective way to 
resolve subsidence. However, this service would generally only expect an insurer to 
consider it when other, more cost-effective options, have been considered. While we expect 
insurers to stop the current movement, it isnt responsible for making sure a property never 
moves again, so if it can stabilise the property without underpinning it, this service considers 
that to be a reasonable solution. Tree preservation orders dont always prevent trees being 
removed. So Im not persuaded CTI should have pursued underpinning as the course of 
action from the outset. 
Its important to note CTI hasnt ruled out underpinning as a potential solution, but it wanted 
to carry out further investigations, and I think it was reasonable in pursuing this first. 
CTIs handling of the claim
Mr G has complained about the method in which CTI has carried out its investigation. He 
feels the trees have been pursued from the outset, and other evidence has been 
disregarded. Hes said he thinks bullying and leverage tactics have been used and has 
asked this service to decide on this. 
Ive reviewed CTIs handling, and Im not persuaded that is has solely focussed its efforts on 
implicating the trees and ignoring other evidence. Mr Gs own initial report by K in October 
2018 recommends that a CCTV drainage survey and an arborist report be carried out. From 
my experience these are commonly used in subsidence claims to understand the cause of 
the movement. Mr G had lived in his property for many years before he noticed any damage 
caused by subsidence. So its not unreasonable for CTI to assume an external factor had 
caused the downward movement in 2018. And issues with drainage or trees are two 
common causes in my experience.
Mr Gs concerned that CTI applied some pressure to R, following its report carried out for 
him in March 2019. In the March 2019 report, R recommended underpinning the property. 
CTI asked the author to clarify some comments, and ultimately asked R to comment on the 
cause of the subsidence, which it hadnt done in its first report. So R wrote a further report in 
August 2019 that concluded:
The long hot summer of 2018 undoubtedly contributed to the onset of the issues 
relating to the observed structural distress. B). The presence of the trees on the 
boundary of the property also exacerbated the situation. However, it is understood 
that the trees all have preservation orders on them, thus removal is not possible. 
Therefore, as the trees mature and grow, the effect on the building will become more 
pronounced, irrespective of the effects of future hot spells. It is on this basis that the 
recommendation is to underpin the shallow foundations around and within the 
building.
I havent seen any evidence that R was pressured in any way to produce this clarification. I 
find it was reasonable for CTI to ask further questions of R following its initial report. R was 
appointed by Mr G, and Ive seen nothing to suggest its further comments should be 
discounted. 
CTI subsequently got a report from an arborist J in October 2019 to comment on the trees. 
Its provided follow up reports based on new tree root information in January 2020 and April 
2020. Mr G has been critical of Js reports, saying its conclusions are not backed up by 
science or maths. Hes also said as J has changed its findings in its reports, it doesnt inspire 
confidence in the findings. He thinks Js latest report of April 2020 should be discounted. Im satisfied CTI has acted reasonably in taking Js report into consideration. I consider J is 
suitably qualified to report on the trees and its provided reasons for the findings it has 
reached. The second version of the report was done to include further information following 
tree root analysis. And the third seems to be have done on receipt of information to 
consolidate its findings. I note Mr Gs point that he was unaware of this report  CTI should 
have shared this with him, as it did previous reports. 
Whilst I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling on the trees, Im satisfied that he hasnt 
provided any persuasive evidence to suggest CTI has wrongly relied on the experts in 
pursuing the trees as a likely cause. Roots from the trial pits were assessed in a lab and 
Mr G hasnt been able to disprove their presence. And Mr Gs own expert R noted in his 
August 2019 that the trees were likely an influencing factor but felt as they couldnt be 
removed underpinning should happen. 
A structural engineering company P were also instructed to carry out monitoring of the 
property, to determine the cause of the movement. There is some dispute on who appointed 
P  CTI has said P is an independent company contracted at Mr Gs request. Mr G has 
disputed this, but as I dont think it has any bearing on the outcome of the case, I dont 
intend to make a finding on whos instruction P was. It has come to light that P was involved 
in a previous subsidence claim on the property in 1991. Mr G says trees were removed 
during that claim, which shows that tree removal wasnt successful and so shouldnt be 
pursued by P again. I consider that given the amount of time that passed between the two 
claims  nearly 30 years  it cant be concluded that tree management wouldnt be 
successful in stabilising the property based on the previous claim. 
Mr Gs concern is that CTIs reports only mention the trees as a factor because it is 
influencing them too. I havent seen any evidence of this. And even reports commissioned by 
Mr G himself had made comments relating to the trees, from the initial report in October 
2018.
Mr G didnt agree to CTI appointing a drainage expert, so he hired his own contractor who 
provided a report in October 2020. And CTI did agree to consider Mr Gs own drainage 
report. So I dont think its acted unfairly. 
I understand Mr Gs been upset at the conduct of CTI and its contractors, but I havent seen 
any evidence to support that its acted unreasonably or unfairly. Nor have I seen any 
evidence of rude or aggressive behaviour. Mr G has made some strong accusations about 
some of the contractors, which have been robustly denied by the contractors in question. But 
I dont think CTI has acted unreasonably in its communication with Mr G. 
The claim has been ongoing for nearly three years, but I dont think thats down to any poor 
handling on the part of CTI. Subsidence claims can be complex and take years to resolve. In 
this case, there is a fundamental disagreement between Mr G and CTI on the best way to 
proceed, which has hampered any progress being made. I understand this is Mr Gs home 
and business, and hes very passionate about the claim. But it is a fact that each time 
another expert is hired, it causes a delay to the progress of the claim. It seems that whilst some cracking was noted at property A initially, most of the focus has 
been on property B, where the worst damage is. I think CTI should have started monitoring 
property A earlier. And if it hasnt already done so, it should start monitoring property A. But 
overall, I dont think CTIs failure to monitor the property at an earlier stage has led to delays 
in the claim, as the delays have been caused by a disagreement on what investigative work 
should be carried out.
Mr G has said CTI hasnt paid him for reports he had carried out, in particular the drainage 
report. CTI said it hadnt been provided with an invoice, but it was agreeable to reimbursing 
this cost. I consider this to be reasonable. So far, I think CTI has reimbursed any costs Mr G 
has asked for. However its unclear if Mr G has asked to be reimbursed for the two latest 
reports hes had carried out in July 2021. I dont think Mr G made CTI aware he was carrying 
out these reports  and I think its fair that he does seek agreement with CTI before carrying 
out any more reports. But as CTI has acted reasonably in its position so far, Id expect it to 
reimburse Mr G for the two reports from 2021, subject to him providing suitable invoices. But 
Im not going to, as part of this decision, require CTI to reimburse any future reports carried 
out by Mr G. Of course, it may do so if it feels appropriate.
Has CTI acted fairly in relying on its expert reports?
As set out above, there have been several reports carried out by both parties, and some of 
the reports have opposing views. So Ive considered which reports Im most persuaded by, 
so that I can give a direction to both parties on how I think the claim can progress from here.
As I see it, there are two main reports that have opposing views. The structural engineering 
report by P in April 2019, and the geo-environmental consultant report from September 
2020 by A. Ps findings were that a Beech and the Horse Chestnut trees should be 
removed, as well as part of a hedge, as they were affecting the soil. It also said a further 
group of trees should be removed to reduce future risk. These are largely supported by the 
arborist, J. The report carried out by A disputes the findings of P in that it doesnt think the 
trees have caused the clay shrinkage thats led to the subsidence damage. 
As report concludes that the soil is overhydrated, and the subsidence is linked to the 
presence of the cellar, and not any trees. It says 
We can therefore only conclude that P should be directed to further examine 
issues related to the bearing failure without the requirement to solely assess a 
tree causation.
On receipt of this report, P disputed some of As evidence relating to the trees. It noted that 
none of the other reports carried out on behalf of either party had raised the same over 
hydration issue. But CTI ultimately said [A] are simply suggesting that the source of any 
excess moisture be identified and eliminated, and this is a view with which we would 
concur. Im satisfied this statement shows CTI are open to investigating other causes of the 
subsidence. And I find this is a reasonable course of action going forward. Both A and CTI 
should work together to carry out further investigations into any excess moisture.
However, I also find that CTI should also continue with the monitoring on B. There is 
conflicting information from both parties as to monitoring. CTI says Mr G has refused entry 
for them to take readings from the monitoring sites from mid-2020. Mr G has said that CTI 
didnt attend when it should have in March 2020 and he was then called out of the blue 
months later about a further monitoring reading. CTI was unable to carry out some 
monitoring in 2020 due to a national lockdown. Mr G has disputed this as he says CTI was 
due to attend before the lockdown was announced. But overall Im persuaded the 
government restrictions would have caused some delay to the monitoring readings in any 
event. But based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied from the reports that CTI are acting fairly by 
also investigating the possible influence of trees and vegetation. Whilst A and P have 
disagreed over the type of the soil and how susceptible it is to shrinking [with A saying 
medium and P saying high] they at least seemingly both in agreement that the soil beneath 
Mr Gs property could shrink during a period of hot weather.
Whilst A has said the trees are not within the industry wide recognised influencing, I think 
theres enough information in the other reports from 2018  2020 which suggest its not 
unreasonable for CTI to consider if the movement is seasonal related, and if removing any 
trees would stabilise the movement. Particularly as tree roots have been found under the 
foundations. And I think that J, as an arborist, is an expert in the field of assessing the 
influence of trees. So Im not satisfied that any work to the trees should be discounted at this 
stage.
New evidence submitted by Mr G 
Mr Es provided two further reports in July 2021. One is a follow up from K, who carried out 
the initial report in October 2018. The conclusion of this report is that that the prime cause 
of movement is the varying depths of foundations associated with seasonal effects 
removal of the trees is not considered to be a long term solution and could exacerbate the 
problem. CTI has said it hasnt been provided with a copy of this report. Having considered 
it, Im not persuaded that this report evidences why tree removal could exacerbate the 
problem, or how this conclusion was reached. It also doesnt explain why its findings have 
changed from what it said in 2018, or what evidence it has reviewed to reach these findings.
Mr Gs also provided his own arborist report by E dated July 2021. In the background, the 
report sets out its purpose as not evaluating the cause of the subsidence or to present any 
findings related to the property, but a critical review of previous reports carried out. However, 
it also notes that it hasnt been provided with the lab results on the tree root samples as they 
werent provided by Mr G. So Im not satisfied that this report is a full review of all of the 
evidence gathered by both parties so far. 
The conclusion of that report is summarised below:
there are conflicting assumptions on the cause of movement. 
Ks report of 2018 suggests tree removal wouldnt stabilise the property long term
The hydration of the soil should be explored further.
So far it hasnt been demonstrated the proposed arboricultural solution (of removing 
trees) will remediate the subsidence issue.
Its not clear why P implicated the beech tree.
I dont know if the conclusions of this report would be different had E been provided with the 
lab results of the tree root analysis, especially in relation to its last finding. I say this because 
the lab analysis in the arborist Js report, found a root matching a beech tree in one of the 
trial pits. And this report doesnt comment on the implication of the horse chestnut trees or 
provide any persuasive evidence that CTI has acted unfairly in pursuing these.
However, even with these inconsistencies, I consider the conclusions of this report arent 
entirely at odds with CTIs position. CTI has said it hasnt concluded removing the trees will 
definitely stabilise the property, only that it should be allowed to consider it. And I agree this 
is a fair and reasonable position. So Es report doesnt persuade me that CTI have acted 
unreasonably in pursuing vegetation management  namely the removal of trees - as a 
potential solution to stabilising the property. Overall having considered all of the reports, Im most persuaded by the reports of the 
arborist J and consider its latest position of April 2020 to be fairly relied upon by CTI. This 
report takes into account lab analysis of tree roots found under the property, as well as likely 
influencing distances as set out by leading building construction standards, which are used 
in the building of new homes. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that demonstrates these 
roots may not be an influencing factor. I find unless the results of further monitoring 
demonstrate that the trees are the cause of the damage, its unlikely that the local authority 
will permit their removal, given the tree protection orders. So I dont think its unreasonable 
that monitoring continues so that this can be established.
It is accepted by most experts that Mr Gs foundations may be susceptible to movement due 
to their varying depths. But I think if CTI can stabilise the property without underpinning the 
foundations, it should be entitled to carry out this course of action. I say this because Mr Gs 
policy provides cover for damage caused by subsidence. In carrying out a lasting and 
effective repair wed expect an insurer to demonstrate it has stabilised the property. But we 
wouldnt expect it to simply underpin a property because of varying foundation depths, if it 
had been stabilised through other means.
In this case, CTI has said that if tree management was unsuccessful for any reason, it would 
look to underpin the property. I think this is a reasonable position.
My overall finding on this part of the complaint is that whilst CTI should have shared one of 
its reports with Mr G earlier, Im satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly. In the interests of 
moving the claim on, I propose CTI continue its monitoring on both properties until it can be 
established  one way or another  if the trees are the likely cause of the subsidence. If they 
are, it should pursue their removal in line with Js recommendations in April 2020. If tree 
removal is unsuccessful [due to the local authoritys refusal] or if it doesnt stabilise the 
property, CTI should consider underpinning. 
There seems an outstanding issue of potential excess moisture in the soil. CTI should work 
with Mr G and A to carry out reasonable further investigations and carry out any remedial 
action once these investigations are complete. 
CTI removing subsidence cover
Our investigator found CTI had acted unreasonably in removing subsidence cover, following 
the principles of the ABI agreement relating to ongoing subsidence claims. Our investigator 
recommended CTI assess the risk of continuing Mr Gs previous cover including subsidence. 
He said If CTI can show the claims history would have resulted in CTI not continuing cover 
[regardless of the ongoing claim] it doesnt need to take any further action. But if it would 
have offered cover, it should provide a quote to Mr G. Mr G has found a new insurance 
policy that doesnt cover him for subsidence. If he wanted to stay with the new insurer, CTI 
should offer subsidence cover only and pay any difference between what Mr G paid for his 
policy in 2020 and what CTI would have charged had his original policy continued. If there is 
a difference, CTI should pay interest on any difference.
Both parties accepted this principle. So Ive seen no reason to depart from it and consider it 
a fair way to resolve this part of the complaint.
I note Mr G was concerned CTI may decline him for other reasons having carried out an 
assessment. I havent been provided with the outcome of that assessment, but if Mr G did 
have concerns about any decline, he can raise that as a separate complaint and this service 
could consider it separately.     My final decision
My final decision is that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd should:
Continue monitoring property A and B until it can be established if the trees are the 
cause of the subsidence.
Investigate further the potential for overhydration of the soils and carry out any 
mitigation.
Upon receipt of invoices, it should reimburse Mr G for the reports carried out by E 
and K in July 2021.
Consider the risk of continuing Mr Gs previous cover against its underwriting criteria 
 without applying the ongoing subsidence claim.
If it is able to continue cover, at Mr Gs option offer him renewal terms (including 
subsidence cover) for the 2021 renewal onwards as if the policy had continued.
If the policy can continue, pay Mr G the difference (if any) between the premiums 
charged in 2020 by his current insurer and what China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co 
Ltd would have charged had the policy continued, without any loading applied for the 
ongoing subsidence claim.
Pay 8% simple interest on any refund from the date the premium was paid by Mr G to 
the settlement date.
If China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd wouldnt have offered cover having 
reassessed the risk (but without applying any reference to the subsidence claim) then 
it doesnt need to take any action.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman