DRN-2299797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc repeatedly failed to make a large transfer for
them, which meant they missed out on a favourable exchange rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F are currently living overseas. Mr F wanted to move £18,000 out of their joint
Santander account, to exchange into local currency. He was keen to take advantage of a
particularly good exchange rate on that day. But Mr F wasnt able to move the money, and
he said that the delay cost them a considerable amount.
Mr F told us that his original online transfer failed, because he didnt receive a one-time
passcode (OTP) to his overseas mobile number. He called Santander repeatedly. He had
been able to make the transaction on the phone, but when he tried that, this payment was
then blocked too. Mr and Mrs F werent told the payments over the phone had failed. Mr F
said they were promised that either the transaction would be done, or they would get a
call back, but they didnt get either. Three days later Mr F was finally able to make the
transaction successfully.
Mr and Mrs F said that they had lost confidence in using Santander in future. Mr F said he
had lost £180 on this transaction, and had intended to make two more identical transactions,
so had lost that money too. He said he wanted £700 in compensation, a personal, formal
apology from a senior member of staff, for Santander to fix the problem with sending OTP
codes to an overseas mobile number, and confirmation that this wouldnt happen again.
Santander said OTP notifications to an overseas number can take longer to come through, 
and sometimes that means the transaction has timed out by the time they arrive. And when 
a payment fails, Santander would usually try to get in touch with the customer by the end of 
the next working day. It was sorry that hadnt happened here. It said the transaction had now 
gone through, and it had paid £50 into Mr and Mrs Fs account as an apology.
When Mr and Mrs F complained, Santander wrote to us. It said that although Mr F had tried
to make the transaction three times, it understood that he only wanted one amount of
£18,000 to be transferred.
Santander said that it definitely had sent the OTP, so it just wasnt received. It had then
arranged to make a transfer for him, but it was confirmed on the call that this would be
subject to the usual fraud check.
This manual payment was then put through for Mr F, but it was stopped for security reasons.
Santanders system then tried to contact Mr F, but Santanders security checks on Mr Fs
number werent successful, so it wouldnt call him. A payment was finally made for him on 17
December.
Santander said it had listened to the relevant calls, and it thought that it hadnt done as well
as it wouldve liked on those calls. It had told Mr F on a call on 15 December that the
payment would be released by 9pm that evening, and it hadnt been. This happened again
on 16 December, when Mr F was again told that the payment would be released by 9pm that
evening, and it wasnt. Thats why Santander wanted to pay Mr F a further £100.
We asked Mr and Mrs F whether this would settle their complaint, but they didnt want to
accept that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Santander had
sent the OTP code for the transaction, and the fault appeared to be with the mobile phone
carrier. The timescales that Santander gave Mr F to make his transfer were aims, not
guarantees. The delays with the security team were put in place to protect Mr and Mrs F,
although they were longer than expected. And there were no charges from the exchange
services provider for not making this transfer on time, Then the exchange rate change wasnt
Santanders fault. So our investigator thought that £150 was fair to cover the poor call
handling on 15 and 16 December 2019.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They said that the contact number for the OTP wasnt changed,
which undermined what our investigator said about this being a security concern. The two
day delay by Santander in making the transaction had just been ignored, as had the fact that
Santander had processed the transaction successfully, but then revoked it without telling Mr
and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F said they had intended to make two further similar transactions, but werent
able to, so their loss was much greater. And Santanders OTPs werent arriving, although
others were. They said that if Santander was happy to continue to provide accounts to
overseas customers, it should be able to provide them with a proper service.
Mr and Mrs F also said that the OTP not arriving was just the start of the failures, it wasnt
the cause of their loss. Mr and Mrs F said what happened went beyond a desire by
Santander to protect them from fraud. It prevented them from using their account. Mr and
Mrs F didnt want to settle this complaint for a further £100. They hadnt agreed to take £50
from Santander, and they didnt know about it until after it was paid.
Our investigator said that on a call on 15 December, Santander confirmed that there was a
UK mobile number on the system for Mr and Mrs F, and it removed that. That was why hed
referred to a change in numbers, and he thought this could have played a part in why they
didnt get OTPs.
Our investigator said hed considered the two-day delay when he looked at the payment
Santander made. And he couldnt comment on things that hadnt happened, so he hadnt
looked at further transactions Mr and Mrs F wanted to make. He thought Santanders
systems were designed primarily for UK customers. And the time it had taken to release the
money was reasonable to allow extra checks to be done. Our investigator said that paying
money into the account, as Mr and Mrs F had done, didnt prove their transactions were
legitimate, and Santander wouldnt have to change its approach to security because of this.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had failed to meet all the banking standards Mr and
Mrs F referred to, and he didnt change his mind.
Mr and Mrs F wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed
to me for a final decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part This is what I said then: 
I think that a number of the problems that Mr F experienced with this payment were 
likely to have been caused because hes operating a UK account, from overseas, 
with an overseas mobile number. Santander is confident that its OTPs were sent. I 
think its most likely that they were. I think the problem is likely to be because of the 
number Mr F is using, and where he is in the world. I know that this system has 
worked previously for Mr F, but I think that receipt of OTPs can be somewhat hit and 
miss when someones overseas.
For that reason, I dont think its Santanders fault that the initial online transfer failed.
Mr F then tried to make a manual transfer, over the phone, on 14 December. Mr F 
was told the transfer had been done. I can hear on that call, Mr F was warned that 
this transfer could be subject to the usual security checks. But he was told Santander 
had his up to date contact information, and would get in touch with him if there was a 
problem.
There was a problem with the payment, it was flagged for further security checks, 
and Santander then didnt contact him. I think that was really unfortunate. I know that 
Santander didnt contact Mr F automatically because it couldnt authenticate the SIM 
for the number it held for him. I dont know if this further problem was because 
Santander still held a UK number for him, or if its also because hes using an 
overseas mobile. But Santander knew that there had already been a problem with 
contacting Mr Fs mobile phone, because the problem started when he didnt receive 
OTPs. And it had given Mr F reassurances that it would contact him, then it didnt.
Mr F rang again on 15 December. He gave the information he understood was 
needed about what his payment was for, and was told the payment would then be 
made. It wasnt made then either. At this time, Mr F could still have received the 
guaranteed exchange rate that hed booked for his currency transfer.
Mr F rang again on 16 December. He was told there was nothing he could do to 
make his payment right away, he had to wait for a call back. He had, by this time, 
been told that before by Santander and not received any call, so I can understand 
why he had such little faith that this payment would finally go through.
The payment did finally go through on 17 December. That was too late for Mr F to get 
the guaranteed rate hed booked for his currency transfer. He got a lower rate 
instead.
When Santander wrote to us about this complaint, it said that it thought that Mr Fs 
customer journey wasnt great. I think thats right. Its really unfortunate that he was 
given reassurances around his payment and contacts from Santander, that then 
werent honoured. So I dont think Santanders initial payment of £50 was enough.
But I dont think that Santander has to provide the redress that Mr F asked for either. 
Ill explain why not. 
Mr F told us hed lost £180 per transfer, and he wanted to make three transfers. With 
that loss, plus compensation, he thought Santander should pay him £700. I dont 
think thats quite right.Although I can see that Mr F tried three times to transfer an amount of £18,000, I 
think he just tried to make the same transaction a number of times. I dont think that 
Mr F was trying to make three separate transfers of £18,000. Mr F referred on his 
calls with Santander to a contract hed entered into, not three contracts. And each 
time he tried to make a manual payment, he only made one payment of £18,000. I 
think its more likely that Mr F had arranged one transfer of £18,000, not three.
Mr F told us he lost £180 on the transfer. Mr F has told us that the exchange rate was
particularly good when he booked this transfer, but then dropped before he was able 
to make the payment. He has now shown us that he was offered an exchange rate of 
$2.02413 for each pound sterling he exchanged (GBP) but on his delayed 
exchange he actually got $2.00608 per GBP. So I think Mr F wouldve had to 
exchange around £160 more on 17 December to get the same amount in local 
currency as he wouldve got if the transfer had been done with the guaranteed rate.
I think Mr Fs loss on this transfer was the local currency equivalent of around £160. I 
do think Santander should pay Mr F that. If it had made the manual payments he 
asked it to make on either 14 or 15 December, or contacted him promptly when those 
payments didnt go through, I dont think Mr F wouldve lost this money.
Mr F also wanted our service to require Santander to apologise. Ive reached a 
different view on what parts of this problem have been Santanders fault to Mr F, and 
its not clear to me that Mr F would find a much more limited apology of value, so I 
wont ask Santander to provide that.
And Mr F wanted us to make Santander review its systems, to see what was going 
wrong, and to make sure it was sorted out, so he and others wouldnt have this 
problem again in future. But our service cant do that. We arent a regulator and we 
dont have powers to make Santander carry out a full-scale review of this sort. And I 
should also note that, like our investigator, Im not convinced that the problem with 
contacting Mr Fs mobile has been caused by Santander.
However, I still agree that this was a poor experience for Mr F overall. I just think that 
this isnt all Santanders fault. Some of the problems that have occurred here seem to 
me to have started out as simple security issues, which have taken longer to resolve 
as a result of Mr F operating a UK account from overseas, with an overseas number. 
But I do think its unfortunate that Mr F was given incorrect reassurances about 
sorting this out, and I think thats added to his frustration.
Ive weighed up Santanders part in what went wrong, and I dont think that what 
Santander has offered is quite the right amount to make up for its part in this. I think 
Santander should ensure Mr and Mrs F receive £100 in compensation for this 
complaint, as well as paying them for the loss of £160 they suffered. It can count 
towards that the payment of £50 it told us it has already made.
So, assuming Santander has paid Mr and Mrs F £50, it would need to pay £210 now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides responded.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander responded to say that it was happy to pay the settlement Id suggested. It said it 
would do this on the basis that Mr and Mrs Fs customer journey was poor, with Mr F being 
given assurances that his payment would be made over the phone on 14 February, although 
the payment wasnt then made.
Mr F wrote on behalf of himself and Mrs F, to disagree. He said that although Santander had 
said OTPs could be delayed to overseas numbers, the ones in this case werent delayed, 
they never arrived. And Santander does accept overseas numbers. Mr F said he got OTPs 
from other UK based organisations. I accept this, but I said that receipt of OTPs can be 
somewhat hit and miss when overseas. I still think that.
Mr F said that if Santander had held a UK number on its system for him, then that would 
demonstrate errors with Santanders records, as the number had been an overseas one long 
before this issue arose. But Santander hasnt suggested this was held as a primary number 
for Mr F. I dont think its necessarily an error in Santanders record keeping for it to still have 
an old UK number for Mr F. Its taken steps now to delete this number, in case it was in any 
way related to the problems Mr F was having. I think thats a reasonable step for Santander 
to take.
Mr F noted Id said that many of the problems were likely to have been caused because hes 
operating a UK account, from overseas, with an overseas mobile number. He said that   
appears to imply that having and using a Santander account from overseas has known risks 
from transactions, services, technical etc. perspectives. He said it is, however, a completely 
valid, permissible and supported service which Santander knows is used from overseas, and 
which it charges £5 per month for. He thought that evidences that Santander is happy about, 
and supports, account use from overseas. Therefore this should not be an acceptable 
excuse for its service and support failures.
My comments about the receipt of OTPs whilst overseas arent specific to Santanders 
system, and Im certainly not aware of any known risks in operating a Santander account 
from overseas. But I do still think, because Mr F is operating a UK account from overseas 
with an overseas mobile number, that provides an additional complication in making 
transactions. And I think its likely that this has affected the success of his transactions in this 
case.
Mr F said I was right to say that hed only been trying the same transaction again when he 
tried three times to make the transfer from Santander. But he said hed intended to perform 
two further and completely separate transactions for the same amount. And those two 
subsequent transactions werent done because Santander had failed to make the first one.
When Mr F spoke to Santander, he didnt mention any subsequent transactions. So even if 
he was intending to make two further transactions for the same amount, I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Santander responsible for losses on additional transactions that it didnt know 
anything about. 
Ive reconsidered this case carefully in the light of the additional comments Ive received, but 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr and Mrs F a total of £260 in 
compensation for this complaint. Santander UK Plc can count towards that award any 
payment it has already made to Mr and Mrs F for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman