DRN-3271650
The complaint
Mr E complains that Telefonica UK Limited (trading as O2) allowed a third party to take out 
more than one fixed sum loan agreement in his name.
What happened
Mr E contacted O2 in late 2018 as he believed it had allowed someone to acquire a mobile 
phone using a fixed sum loan in his name. He told it that he had an account with O2  as 
well as a loan  which he took out in 2014 and subsequently asked for it to be closed in 
2015. He asked it to freeze the account and investigate what had happened.
O2 responded to Mr Es concerns by saying that he ought to contact its fraud department to 
discuss further, but ultimately it didnt think it had done anything wrong. The account was 
subsequently un-frozen when requested by someone that Mr E says wasnt him, over a 
webchat with O2. The loan was then terminated due to non-payment in September 2018.
Mr E referred the matter to our service. He reiterated that hed asked for his account to be 
closed some time around 2015 and had no knowledge of any subsequent loans taken out in 
his name. He also said that hed been contacted by a third party attempting to recover a debt 
of around £3,000 which O2 had passed it in relation to this matter.
O2 said that it thought Mr E was aware of who the third party in the circumstances of the 
complaint was  his ex-wife  so it was a civil matter, and it had not done anything wrong. It 
said it couldnt find any evidence of Mr E requesting the account to be closed.
Our investigator disagreed. Overall, she was persuaded that the most recent loan taken out 
in Mr Es name was not taken out with his consent. She said that O2 should cancel his 
agreement without further liability to him and remove adverse information from his credit file.
O2 disagreed and made a number of points. In summary, it said it was a civil matter as Mr E 
knew the person using the account and he hadnt given specific instructions to allow that 
person to take the account over, nor disconnect it. It also said that payment details varied 
between Mr E and the third party to whom Mr E had given access to his account, and that 
because he gave a third party access to his account, he was responsible for it under the 
accounts terms and conditions which hed agreed to. It asked for an ombudsmans review, 
so the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the case. In summary, I said;
Mr E accepts that he initially took out a loan for a mobile phone with O2 in 2014. I 
understand that he had a fixed sum loan agreement with O2 to cover the cost of the handset 
and a separate agreement for airtime. From whats been said it also appears that Mr E 
accepts that the phone was to be used by his ex-wife.
The fixed sum loans which Mr E says O2 gave to a third party in his name and subsequently 
asked him to repay were regulated credit agreements. Our service has the jurisdiction to 
look into complaints about these. Mr Es complaint is also about a debt in relation to an 
associated airtime contract. We dont have the power to decide on complaints specifically 
about any separate contracts for airtime, unless that is, the debt accrued a result or 
consequence of the mis-sale of a regulated credit agreement.
Mr E says that he asked for his original loan to be cancelled around 2015 and didnt have 
any further contact with O2 until 2018. O2 told us that it doesnt have any call recordings at 
all, or any other relevant records of contact that relate to events before 2017. The handset in 
relation to Mr Es account was upgraded twice after 2014; in 2016 and 2018. But before 
either of those events happened, Mr E says that hed already asked to cancel his loan.
Mr Es request to cancel his original agreement
Given that theres limited evidence available Ill need to base my decision, in part, on the 
balance of probability. Or, in other words, on what most likely happened in the absence of 
specific evidence.
O2s shown that Mr E had a direct debit set up to make payments towards his credit 
agreement from 2014 until 2015. If I were to accept that Mr E asked O2 to cancel his 
agreement in 2015, it wouldve left a significant portion of the loan outstanding, and I expect 
he wouldve needed to repay it in full to cancel the loan. That wasnt the case; O2 has shown 
that after the direct debit was cancelled, manual monthly payments were made until the loan 
was repaid in 2016 in line with the repayment schedule.
Given this, Im not persuaded that Mr E requested the account was cancelled or closed in 
2015. Rather, I expect that one of two other scenarios are likely; either Mr E asked for the 
agreement to be cancelled at a later date or he agreed for his ex-wife to take over 
repayments in 2015 thinking that the account would close when the loan was repaid.
Mr E says that O2 told him that it accepted he asked for the account to be closed but a 
woman subsequently called and asked for it to be reactivated. O2 hasnt commented on this 
or provided any evidence in relation to it. However, Ive seen in Mr Es initial email to O2 in 
2018 to tell it he hadnt requested a new handset or loan, that he said the contract had not 
been renewed so shouldve been cancelled. He also made reference to not having had any 
contact with O2 for a number of years. So, I think it most likely that Mr E expected his 
agreement to end but didnt explicitly ask for O2 to cancel it.
Whether or not Mr E explicitly asked O2 to cancel his loan in 2015 doesnt mean that he took 
out the further loans, nor that he gave actual or apparent authority for subsequent credit 
agreements to be provided in his name. Ill explain why in relation to each loan.
2016 loan
From what its said I dont think that O2 disputes that the loans granted in 2016 and 2018 
were not taken by Mr E himself. Its defended the complaint on the basis that they appear to 
have been taken by a third party to whom Mr E had allowed access to his account. Ill 
address this for the avoidance of doubt though.
The first request to upgrade the handset on Mr Es account was made in 2016 and financed 
via a fixed sum loan agreement. Whilst O2 has no records in relation to the sale of this 
agreement, it has suggested that the upgrade was made by telephone and the calls not 
available.
O2 has shown that it held Mr Es email address on file at the time. But it hasnt shown, or 
told us, that it emailed confirmation or any other information about the upgrade to Mr E. Even 
if it had, its possible that Mr E may not have seen it, especially as he thought the account had been closed. It also seems that the handset and bills were sent to an address Mr E says 
he no longer lived at and that a direct debit was set up in a third partys name from the start 
of the agreement. So, in the absence of evidence to persuade me otherwise, I find it 
plausible that Mr E was unaware that a fixed sum loan had been taken out in his name, and 
had therefore not given actual authority for it.
I also need to consider whether Mr E had given a third-party apparent authority to contract 
on his behalf. O2 has argued that Mr E should be held responsible for the loans because he 
allowed a third-party access to his account. Its referenced the terms and conditions Mr E 
agreed to in 2014.
From whats been said I find it likely that Mr E had given a third-party access to his account 
in 2014 as it appears he had not intended to make use of the telephone himself. But I think 
its reasonable to suggest that Mr E had given the third-party access to the account to make 
full use of the benefits on offer and to manage any necessary administration, such as 
checking bills and usage. Im not satisfied though, that Mr E had intended for any third party 
to take a loan out on his behalf. Ive also not been presented with any terms and conditions 
that Mr E has agreed to which say that if he gave a third-party access to his account hed 
also be giving authority for them to apply for loans in his name.
As Ive mentioned above, Im not satisfied based on what O2 has said, or any of the 
evidence its provided, that Mr E had given actual or apparent authority for a third party to 
take out a fixed sum loan in his name in 2016. Nor am I satisfied that any O2 terms and 
conditions that Mr E may have been provided in 2014 made it clear that by sharing access to 
his account hed be giving permission for a third-party to take out a loan on his behalf. So, 
although this particular loan doesnt appear to have had a detrimental impact on Mr E  it 
was repaid in full  I think O2 should remove any remaining record of it with credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) because I dont think itd be accurate or fair to record information about a 
loan Mr E ultimately didnt have knowledge of or give authority for.
2018 loan
The second upgrade on Mr Es account was made in 2018. O2 has given us transcripts of 
the webchats in relation to the upgrade and acquisition of another fixed sum loan. It hasnt 
supplied any telephone calls in relation to the sale of the loan.
Like our investigator, Im persuaded that the person who communicated with O2 and agreed 
to the loan was not Mr E. I say this for a number of reasons  its clear that person struggled 
to recall account details and security passwords and it was only through prompting that they 
were able to pass O2s checks. More significantly however, Mr E contacted O2 very quickly 
after he was emailed confirmation of his order to ask it to freeze the account and investigate 
what had happened. Significantly, O2 has shown that by this stage it didnt hold Mr Es email 
address. Rather, it held a third partys email address.
Nonetheless, Ive seen that O2 sent confirmation of the order to Mr E, which causes me to 
question the reliability of O2s records.
Mr E wasnt able to pass O2s security measures when he contacted O2 by webchat  even 
with prompts  which suggested that he was not the person whod asked to upgrade the 
handset and that had not used the account for some time, which is consistent with his 
version of events. Overall, I think its clear that the person who agreed to the new loan was 
not Mr E and he was unaware of it, so it follows that Im also satisfied that he didnt given 
actual authority for the loan.
O2 has pointed out that when the loan was agreed to in 2018, a direct debit was set up on Mr Es account. However, Im also aware that Mr E cancelled this immediately and 
complained to O2 that he had not given permission for it. And that another direct debit was 
also set up in someone elses name a few days later. O2 hasnt shown that Mr E gave 
authority for this. I dont know how or why O2 was able to set this direct debit up, but its 
evidence that I would have expected O2 to be able to provide. In any case, even if the 
person who upgraded the handset provided those details, Im satisfied that person wasnt Mr 
E.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr E gave authority  actual or apparent  for a third party to 
take out this loan, for broadly the same reasons I explained in relation to the loan given in 
2016. So, I think O2 should therefore remove the entry from Mr Es credit file. It should also 
recall the debt it passed to a debt collection agent and not pursue Mr E for any sums in 
relation to it.
Other considerations
I understand that only a portion of the debt O2 has passed to a debt collection agent relates 
to the fixed sum loan taken out in Mr Es name in 2018, and the remainder is in relation to an 
associated agreement for airtime.
I think its clear that Mr E took reasonable steps to make O2 aware that he hadnt agreed to 
the loan nor the associated airtime contract. When O2 wouldnt freeze the account via 
webchats, it asked Mr E to attend a store with ID to free the account, which he did.
By that point O2 ought reasonably to have been aware that the person itd corresponded 
with regarding the account was not Mr E. Despite this, days later it unfroze the account after 
being contacted by a third party via webchats. A significant airtime bill was subsequently 
accrued before the account was closed. I think its fair to say that bill would not have accrued 
if O2 had not allowed, clearly by this stage, a third party to unfreeze the account.
Moreover, the debt in relation to the airtime contract was sold ancillary to a regulated loan 
which Im satisfied should not have been given, so it follows that I dont think Mr E should be 
held responsible for the airtime debt either.
I provisionally concluded that O2 should;
- remove information relating to the point of sale loans taken out in Mr Es name in 2016 and 
2018 from his credit file.
- recall the entire debt it passed to a debt recovery agent and not pursue Mr E for any sums 
in relation to it.
- refund any payments Mr E has made towards the debt including simple interest at 8% per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Mr E didnt respond, but O2 did. It provided evidence to show that it held Mr Es current 
email address at the time the second loan was taken out in 2016. It said that various 
documents relating to the contract, as well as the contract itself was sent to that email 
address. It said it was necessary for Mr E to authorise those documents before the loan went 
ahead. It maintained that Mr E had shared his personal account details with a third party but 
made an offer to recall and clear £924 of the debt it passed to a collection agent, in respect 
of the loan taken out in June 2018.
In light of the additional comments received, I issued a further provisional decision. I 
summary, I said;Having considered the further evidence and comments Ive been provided, and reflected on 
my provisional findings, Ive decided to change my position on the case. Ill explain why.
Im persuaded by the evidence which O2 provided about Mr E likely being aware of the loan 
given in 2016. Whilst it hasnt been able to give us a copy of the email it sent, Im satisfied 
that it held Mr Es email address and I think it more likely than not that contractual 
information was sent there  particularly because it was sent there subsequently in 2018.
As a result, Im persuaded that Mr E was either aware of the loan given in 2016, or at the 
very least had given permission for it. So, I dont think that O2 needs to remove any 
information about this loan from Mr Es credit file.
I remain of the opinion that Mr E did not give actual or apparent authority for the loan given 
in 2018. In any case, O2 has offered to recall and clear the debt in relation to that loan, 
which I think fair, as long as it also removes the associated entry from Mr Es credit file.
My provisional decision said that O2 ought to clear the debt in relation to an airtime contract 
which was also passed to a collection agent because the airtime agreement was sold 
ancillary to a regulated loan, and the debt accrued as a result of 2018s loan being given 
without authority. However, in light of O2s comments Ive changed my mind.
I say this because I think O2s shown that at some point Mr E gave a third party authority to 
make use of his account with O2. Im also not satisfied that Mr E requested O2 to 
subsequently close his account. So, it seems that a third party had use of an airtime facility 
in Mr Es name with his knowledge and/ or permission. It appears that had been the case 
since 2014. So, any debt which accrued as a result of airtime use wouldve likely accrued 
irrespective of whether 2018s loan had been given.
As a result, Im not persuaded the remainder of the debt O2 passed to a collection agent 
accrued as a result of the mis-sale of a regulated loan. Thats what our rules limit me to 
consider - I cannot ask O2 to take further action in relation to the administration of an airtime 
contract in isolation.
Should Mr E wish to pursue a complaint about O2s (or a collection agents) pursuit of an 
airtime related debt, or its administration of his airtime contract, he may wish to seek 
independent advice about how he might be able to do that with an alternative dispute 
resolution service.
I concluded that O2s offer to recall and clear the debt in relation to the loan given in 2018 
was fair in all the circumstances, as long as it removes the entry from Mr Es credit file.
Mr E didnt respond but O2 did. It reiterated some of the points it had made to my first 
provisional decision, but otherwise acknowledged the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think neither party has presented me with any further evidence which has 
caused me to change my mind. As a result, I find no reason to depart from my last 
provisional decision, and now make the conclusion I reached final. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision that Telefonica UK Limiteds (trading as 
O2) offer to recall and clear a debt in relation to a loan granted in 2018 in Mr Es name is fair. 
It must carry this out, as well as remove the record of the loan with credit reference 
agencies, on Mr Es acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman