DRN-3310719
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as X complains about the interest rate that Metro Bank PLC has 
applied to a commercial buy-to-let loan. X complains that it was led to believe that a more 
competitive interest rate would be available but that this didnt materialise. And that mistakes 
were then made by Metro when the loan reverted to the Standard Variable Rate (SVR). 
Mr T and Mr S, as two of the directors of X, have managed the complaint of Xs behalf. They 
ask that Metro cancel the increased, punitive rate imposed on their loan.
What happened
In 2015 X entered into a secured ten year Portfolio Buy-to-Let loan with Metro. The loan was 
taken out on a five year interest rate product of 3.79%. Mr T and Mrs S say they were 
reassured that after such time theyd be able to take out another competitive five year 
interest rate product for the remaining loan term. 
In late 2019 one of the directors of X asked Metro what rates might be available when the 
current interest rate product came to an end. At that point Mr T and Mr S say they were told 
that a good rate wasnt available. But, Mr T says Metro made no reference to the SVR.
In December 2019 a house of multiple occupancy was removed from the security package 
provided to Metro by X. Mr T says theyd been told by Metro that if they made this 
amendment it would improve the competitiveness of the interest rate products made 
available to X going forward.
In February 2020 X was told that Metro couldnt offer any other new interest rate product 
other than a 5 year tracker of 3.75% over base rate. Metro said it hoped to launch a new 
company buy-to-let product range including 2, 3 and 5 year fixed rates but this wasnt ready 
for releasing yet. Metro had said I will let you know as soon as the product is launched and 
will ensure you are one of the first to be transferred over. 
In May 2020 the directors of X say they found that the interest rate had gone up on the 
commercial facility without them having been given any notice of this. Metro said interest had 
been calculated according to its SVR, but Mr T and Mr S disagreed. By their calculation the 
rate of interest had increased to around 20%. 
On 3 June 2020 Mr T complained to Metro. On 19 June 2020 Metro upheld part of the 
complaint and offered £400 to put things right. Metro thought it had been made reasonably 
clear in the facility letter that the loan would revert to its SVR when the five year fixed rate 
expired in April 2020. However, it said there had been mistakes when the initial rate had 
ended. An incorrect interest rate had been applied to the loan from April 2020, and it said it 
hadnt formally notified X when the SVR was applied to the loan as it should have done. 
Metro said its offer of £400 was calculated to leave X as if it had continued on the initial rate 
of 3.79% for a further three months (until July 2020).
It said Mr T and Mr S had three options at that point. To take out the 5 year tracker that was 
available, or leave the facility on Metros SVR, or refinance with another lender. 
Mr T rejected Metros offer on 24 June 2020. On 1 July 2020 Metro issued a final response 
to Xs complaint, reiterating the offer already made on 19 June and giving referral rights to 
this service.
Mr T remained unhappy with Metros response and shared with it where they thought there 
were inaccuracies in its response. Metro said the matter was closed and Mr T referred the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He found that Metro had made errors with 
the calculation of the interest rate once the initial rate expired, and that it should have 
contacted X when the rate changed. But he didnt think Metro had made any formal 
commitments that a new five year fixed rate would definitely be available to X. He thought 
the £400 already offered by Metro was fair and reasonable to put things right.  
Mr S disagreed saying:
- Was it OK for Metro time after time, month in month out, to spin us a line about a 
new fixed rate or about a new product being launched but that it was not OK for us to 
believe them?
- It wasnt until the end of 2019 that X was told about having to wait for a new 
product. And on 3 February when the charge was cancelled they were told they 
would be among the first to be put on the new rate;
- The directors of X ask that the lower rate of 3.79% is extended to cover the whole 
period from April 2020 to either the date the directors refinance the loan elsewhere or 
the date of our judgment.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint and reach a final decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms of the commercial lending agreement entered into by X in 2015. 
Section 5.2 of the Standard Terms says:
You will pay interest on the amount of the Loan at the Initial Interest Rate specified in the 
Key Terms for the period specified in the Key Terms in relation to the initial Interest Rate, 
and thereafter you will pay interest on the amount of the Loan at the Standard Variable 
Rate. 
The Key Terms also say, under the heading Standard Variable Rate:
This is the Lenders Buy-to-Let Standard Variable Rate published by the Lender (available 
upon request) and notified to the Borrower as varied from time to time. The Standard 
Variable Rate is currently 4.5% (for point five) per cent per annum. 
Please note that the Standard Variable Rate may vary from time to time. 
Im satisfied that it was made reasonably clear in the facility documentation that the loan had 
an initial 5 year fixed rate of 3.79% which would expire five years after the initial drawdown. I 
also think the agreement set out what would happen at the end of the initial interest rate period and made no mention of a guarantee to provide a further five year fixed rate at the 
end of the initial interest rate period. 
Mr T has said that he was given verbal assurances on a number of occasions, including 
before entering into the facility in 2014, that a further fixed rate would be available at the end 
of the five year period. I dont doubt Mr Ts recollection of what was discussed at the time. I 
think its probable that Metro would have anticipated that new five year fixed rate deals 
would be available in the future and that this expectation would have been shared with Mr T 
at the time. However, I havent found any evidence of a formal guarantee or commitment of 
this, either within the facility agreement itself or in other evidence provided. As such I dont 
think Metro can reasonably be asked to give X a five year fixed interest rate product now if 
this isnt part of its current product range. 
I appreciate that there is a loss of expectation for the directors of X, and I can see why they 
feel Metro could have been more transparent in its dealings with them. Especially in its 
handling of the change to the security package that supports the loan. However, from the 
emails and other correspondence Ive seen, Metro had been hopeful of more competitive 
products such as 2, 3 and 5 year fixed rates coming into its product range for loans such as 
Xs facility, but had given no stronger reassurances than that.
Metro has now told Mr T what further products are available. I note a five year tracker rate 
was available to X when the initial rate expired, and this tracker rate was lower than Metros 
buy-to-let SVR. Mr Ts submissions explain that this product isnt attractive to the directors 
because its a variable rate. I can understand why this product isnt what Mr T and Mr S had 
hoped for when they entered into the loan. 
As Metro has said, Xs other options are to either stay with Metro on the SVR, in the hope 
that new fixed rate products will become available in the future, or to refinance with another 
lender. Ultimately thats a choice for the directors of X to make. For the reasons given above, 
Im not persuaded that Metro has acted unfairly by not offering X a new five year interest rate 
product available now. And I dont think its unfair that this loan reverted to the buy-to-let 
SVR as was set out to happen five years after drawdown in the initial facility agreement.
Mr S and Mr T have said that they consider the facility agreement they entered into is no 
longer legally binding since the security which supports the transaction was changed. I dont 
think that argument has any merit in my determination of this case. My reading of the Facility 
Agreement is that such changes are permitted. Whether the contract is enforceable would 
be a matter more suitable to a court, than our informal resolution service. I would also say 
that altering a security package that supports this type of portfolio facility isnt unusual during 
the life of the loan. And I think it would be unreasonable to conclude that any such 
amendment during the life of a ten year facility would render the facility agreement void.
That said, I consider that Metros handling of the run up to the rate expiring was poor. Metro 
has said to is that it advised Xs directors that at the end of the fixed term the interest 
applied would become its SVR. However, Ive seen no evidence to support this and this is at 
odds with the directors testimony. It seems more probable, having considered all the 
evidence presented, that the directors of X knew that the fixed rate was coming to an end, 
and they proactively contacted Metro to explore their options. I think Metro could have done 
more to highlight that the loan would revert to SVR if no further product was taken out, and 
to confirm the impact this would have on the interest rate and monthly interest payments. 
By Metros own admission it made mistakes when calculating the interest on the loan from 
May 2020 until a complaint was made by X. I can understand why Mr S and Mr T felt 
frustrated that no further five year fixed rates were available despite being told this was 
hopefully coming. But they then also experienced a series of administrative mistakes which led them to further question whether they could trust Metro and its handling of the loan. 
Metro upheld this part of the complaint and apologised for its mistakes. It said it should have 
notified X of the changes to interest rate, and it said it had made errors in calculating 
interest. To resolve this part of the complaint is offered around £400 which it has shown 
more than covers the additional interest charged. Metro has said this was the equivalent of 
the five year fixed rate continuing for a further three months. This covers the period until the 
complaint had been investigated, and the errors identified. It also extends the lower rate until 
such time as Metro had clearly explained the SVR was applicable to the loan, the other 
products available and the choices now available to Mr T and Mr S. 
Mr T and Mr S have also said that Metro mismanaged the handling of their complaint. As our 
investigator has explained, the way a firm conducts its complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity and as such I make no direct finding about this part of the complaint. Id like to 
assure Mr T and Mr S that I have given this matter some thought when thinking about the 
wider administration of this loan when the interest rate came to an end. 
As Ive said, I consider the offer already made by Metro is fair and reasonable to put things 
right in this complaint. I understand that Mr T and Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, 
but I make no further award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint to the extent that I consider the £400 
offered by Metro Bank PLC to X is fair and reasonable to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman