DRN-3344044
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis sold them a 
mortgage in 2019.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs G met with a mortgage adviser (MA) to discuss taking out a 
mortgage for a property (the property) they were intending to purchase and renovate. It was 
valued at £155,000. They already had a decision in principle for a loan of £190,000. They 
wanted a mortgage with a draw-down, facility to enable them to do the renovations, but 
RBS said it didnt provide such a product.
Mr and Mrs G say they told the MA that they would use their savings, pension, and borrow 
money on credit in order to do the renovations, and once they had completed some of that 
work, they would apply for further borrowing with RBS to consolidate that debt.
Mr and Mrs G took out a 95% loan to value mortgage with RBS for £147,250 and funds were 
released to them in June 2019. In October 2020, as they had planned, Mr and Mrs G applied 
for further borrowing with RBS (the application) but this was declined as it didnt pass RBS 
credit check.
Mr and Mrs G complained to RBS as they thought the MA should have done more to warn 
them that borrowing money on credit would impact upon any future application. And if they 
had been warned, they said, then they wouldnt have bought the property.
RBS didnt uphold the complaint, leading Mr and Mrs G to approach this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that the mortgage hadnt been 
mis-sold as the MA had told Mr and Mrs G that there was no guarantee that any future 
application would be approved. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether RBS acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
It seems clear that Mr and Mrs G were very keen on purchasing the property. I say that 
because when they were told that RBS couldnt provide a draw down facility, they re-
assessed their options and decided to use their savings and pension funds to fund the 
renovation works. That demonstrates an acceptance on their part to take some financial risk 
in depleting their savings and calling on their pension funds without any guarantee that they 
would be able to refinance. They also knew when they applied for the mortgage that they 
would be borrowing heavily on credit which is a further risk.
I have referred to the issue of a guarantee. Mr and Mrs G accept that the MA told them that 
there was no guarantee that any future application would be successful. I appreciate they 
say that this has to be put into context, and that such advice was given only as an 
afterthought, but nevertheless it remains they were told there would be no guarantee of 
acceptance. That is an important point, since there is a distinction to be drawn between 
something which is guaranteed to happen at a future date, and something which is not so 
guaranteed. In this case the advice given was that there was no guarantee, or, to put it 
another way, Mr and Mrs G were not given an explicit oral or written guarantee of future 
funding. What Mr and Mrs G seem to be saying is that they were told that any future 
application would be successful subject to certain conditions. But that is not a guarantee.
Turning to the MAs fact find document completed in May 2019, there can be no dispute 
that the MA knew Mr and Mrs G were intending to carry out renovations to the property. It 
records, 
You would prefer to have stability for at least the next two years. You want to review 
your mortgage in 2 years time because you feel your loan to value will reduce giving 
you access to better rates and you want to do this sooner rather than later.
This document demonstrates that the MA knew that Mr and Mrs G would be trying to review 
their mortgage arrangements in two years. However, I dont think this document goes so far 
as to show that Mr and Mrs G told the MA of their plan to refinance after work had been 
done, in order to pay off any debt they had accrued on credit. Had that been the case I 
would have expected that to have been recorded on this document, but it was not. All this 
document does, is to confirm that in after two years, Mr and Mrs G were hopeful that they 
might get access to better rates as the loan to value ratio on the property would have 
decreased. 
Mr and Mrs G have also said that the MA should have specifically told them there was a risk 
that any future application might be declined if their credit rating became unacceptable as a 
result of their plan to borrow on credit. Mr G has said he raised this with the MA as he 
wanted to understand how that would impact any future application. Mr G says that the MA 
spoke only in terms of changes to their circumstances and that by not giving a direct 
response, it was implicit that a future application would be successful. In a response to our 
investigator, Mr G also said that when he had checked with the MA about the issue of 
unforeseen circumstances he was told they should not be worried.
I dont have the actual recording of what the MA actually said so I cannot comment on 
whether he made a guarantee in the terms Mr and Mrs G suggest. I know Mr and Mrs G 
place the MAs comment within the context of perhaps losing employment, and I dont doubt 
that was their perception or interpretation of his comments. But, if such a guarantee had 
been given, then I would have expected that to have been reduced to writing, given the 
importance of such, but it was not. I know Mr and Mrs G have explained that they felt some 
financial naivety given a previous poor financial decision, so given that I would have 
expected they might have sought to have any concerns removed by getting such an 
assurance in writing.
Mr G has also confirmed that he knew that obtaining credit would have an impact on his 
credit file. So, it follows that he would know that any impact to his credit file would be visible 
on any future application, and that any organisation looking at whether to lend would, in part, 
be basing their decision upon that credit score. This leads me to consider what the MA should have advised Mr and Mrs G at the point of 
taking out the mortgage. In this case, the MAs role was to provide advice only on bank 
mortgages. That is confirmed on the front of the fact find document. I have considered the 
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules in respect of advised sales, of which this was one. It is 
clear from this that the MA had to ensure that the mortgage he was advising for Mr and Mrs 
G was suitable. He was required to consider whether it was appropriate to the needs and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs G.  At the point of sale, the MA had obtained considerable 
information from Mr and Mrs G and had ascertained the mortgage was available and it was 
suitable. The question posed is whether he should have looked into the future and 
anticipated that Mr and Mrs Gs future application would be declined because of their 
anticipated future borrowing. That is something he could not know. There was a chance 
everything would be fine and equally there was a chance it would not. Simply increasing 
borrowing on a credit card does not automatically lead to a decision not to lend in the future. 
It is accepted that the reason Mr and Mrs Gs application was declined was because of an 
adverse change to his credit score. And there can of course be many reasons a persons 
credit rating is poor, not simply just because they have borrowed a large amount on credit. 
So, I dont think that it is reasonable to expect the MA to attempt to predict that a future 
application for borrowings would be successful because there is no way he could know what 
the credit score would be and there was no way he could predict what, in the future any 
lenders criteria for lending might be.
So, although Mr and Mrs G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I dont think that 
RBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman