DRN-4353596
The complaint
Mr H complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam, or to help him to recover the money once 
hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr H responded to an advert about an investment opportunity with a company Ill refer to as 
T. He completed an online contact form and was called by someone Ill refer to as the 
scammer who claimed to work for T. 
Mr H discussed investment plans with the scammer who helped him to set up an account on 
Ts trading platform. He also told him to download AnyDesk remote access software to his 
laptop and to open a Wise account, into which he would transfer money from his other bank 
account before sending it to the trading platform.
Mr H made an initial investment of £200 and saw his investment grow to £900 within a week. 
He remained in daily communication with the scammer via WhatsApp and he could see what 
he believed to be live trades on the trading platform. Between 15 September 2022 and 22 
September 2022, he made three transfers totalling £50,020.
At the end of October 2022, Mr H visited is other bank to discuss a blocked payment, which 
is when he realised hed been scammed and that T was a clone of a regulated company.
Mr H complained to Wise with the assistance of a representative who said it had only 
intervened once and that it should have identified the transactions as unusual as they were 
out of character with the usual spending on the account. But Wise refused to refund any of 
the money Mr H had lost, explaining that high value or unusual withdrawals or transfers 
didnt automatically generate a fraud warning in every case. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. His representative said Wises refusal to share details of the recipient 
accounts had denied him the opportunity to recover his funds and that his poor decision 
making was brought on by a prolonged period of poor health. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that Mr 
H opened the Wise account on 6 September 2022, selecting paying for goods and services 
as the reason for opening the account. He added £20 to the balance and on 15 September 
2022 he added a further £10,000 before transferring the whole balance to a new payee. 
She commented that as Mr H was making a payment for an investment, it contradicted the 
reason given for opening the account. And money was paid out to a new payee on the same 
day it was paid in, so she thought Wise ought to have intervened and asked Mr H how hed 
been contacted, whether there was a broker or account manager involved, what checks 
hed done, whether he had a trading account and whether hed been able to successfully 
withdraw funds from his trading account.
She said Mr H wasnt given a cover story, so she thought he wouldve told Wise he was 
being assisted by an account manager who had told him to open the Wise account and to 
download AnyDesk to his device. Wise should then have provided advice about how 
investment scams work and warned him that there were red flags present, which could have 
prevented the scam. Because of this, she recommended it should refund the money Mr H 
had lost from the first payment onwards.
Our investigator also said she was satisfied this was a sophisticated scam and that the 
scammer had built a rapport with Mr H, making him feel in control by allowing him to choose 
an investment plan. And she accepted he was suffering from multiple health conditions, 
which was likely to have had a bearing on his judgement, so she didnt think the settlement 
should be reduced for contributory negligence. 
Finally, she explained that Mr Hs other bank had agreed to pay 50% of Mr Hs loss from the 
first payment onwards, so she would only be recommending that Wise should pay 50% of 
the settlement.
Wise has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman and so the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr H didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Wise is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Wise could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Wise ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these 
payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have 
intervened to warn Mr H when he tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or 
suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Wise to intervene with a view to protecting 
Mr H from financial harm due to fraud. 
Mr H opened the account for the purpose of the investment and so there was no account 
history to compare the payments with. But its significant that he paid £20 into the account 
from his other account, followed by £10,000 before transferring the entire amount to P. I 
accept Wise had nothing compare the spending with, but £10,020 is a large payment and paying in funds and then sending them out immediately is a pattern of spending that is 
indicative of fraud. And it would have been clear Mr H was sending money for an investment, 
which contradicted the reason given for the account opening.
I agree with our investigator that Wise should have contacted Mr H to ask him about the 
purpose of the payments including what the payments were for and whether there was a 
third-party involved and if so how he met them. It should also have asked if hed been told to 
download remote access software, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns and 
whether hed been allowed to make any withdrawals.
Theres no evidence Mr H had been told to lie and so Im satisfied he would have said he 
was being advised by someone who worked for an investment company hed found online, 
hed been told to download AnyDesk software to his device, and the initial investment of 
£200 had grown to £900 within a week.
There were no warnings about T on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites which would have 
alerted Mr H to the fact there was a scam. But I think there were enough red flags present 
for Wise to have identified that the payments were being made to a scam and as I havent 
seen any evidence Mr H was keen to take risks with his money, I think hed have listened to 
some clear advice from Wise about due diligence and a very robust warning that the 
payments had the hallmarks of a scam. 
Because of this Im satisfied that Wise failed to intervene in circumstances that could have 
prevented his loss and so it should refund the money he lost from the first payment onwards.
Contributory negligence
Having considered the circumstances of this scam, dont think it was unreasonable for Mr H 
to have thought the investment was genuine. Im satisfied this was a sophisticated scam and 
I note the account manager had allowed him to choose an investment plan, which had made 
him feel in control. Im also satisfied that he was suffering from multiple health conditions 
which might have affected his judgement. 
So, while there may be cases where a reduction for contributory negligence is appropriate, I 
dont think this is one of them.
Shared liability
As Mr H had complained to his other bank about this scam, I agree that Wise should share 
liability with the other bank and so it should refund 50% of Mr Hs loss from the first payment 
onwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that Wise Payments Limited should: 
refund £25,010.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Wise Payments Limited deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman