DRN-3262930
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service received from U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line (UKI) when renewing his motor insurance policy. 
Mrs M has brought the complaint on behalf of Mr M. For ease of reading, Ill refer to both Mr 
M and Mrs M, as Mr M. 
What happened
Mr Ms motor insurance was due to renew in October 2021, but didnt, due to an error 
caused by UKI. Mr M says due to this error, he drove to work uninsured. And the error was 
only established when he contacted UKI  rather than UKI finding the error. 
The policy became active once Mr M contacted UKI on 4 October 2021. Mr M says UKIs 
error could have had far greater consequences, such as being stopped by the police, or 
being involved in an incident whilst uninsured. And whilst this didnt happen, Mr M thinks UKI 
failed to recognise the severity of their error. So, he complained. 
Mr M also says, to get insured on 4 October 2021, he had to pay a higher premium to the 
amount previously agreed for the policy  that UKI failed to renew. 
UKI responded to the complaint in October 2021 upholding it. They offered to refund Mr M a 
partial premium refund and pay him £30 for calls and compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr M didnt think this was fair. 
Mr M also says the partial premium refund should not be considered as part of the complaint 
resolution as this was due to him anyway. 
Before the policy was due to renew in October 2021, Mr M contacted UKI roughly a month 
prior to request a policy amendment, to take place in November 2021. Mr M says this 
amendment reduced the premiums and the difference would be refunded to him when the 
amendment came into effect, in November 2021. However, UKI failed to carry this out. 
Mr M raised a second complaint with UKI about the partial premium refund amount and the 
administration of the policy amendment. He didnt think the refund amount was correct and, 
despite asking UKI to carry out a policy amendment, they failed to do this. 
UKI also responded to this complaint upholding it. They said the partial premium refund had 
been calculated incorrectly. They paid Mr M £82 in total - £5 for calls, £2 for the remaining 
premium refund due and £75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M had already approached our service between the first and second complaint. It was, 
however, agreed appropriate that our service considers both matters as one complaint. Mr M 
remained unhappy with the way UKI handled things overall, and failed to acknowledge the 
severity of their error, and the impact it could have had on him. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He agreed 
UKI should have handled things much better, and made errors, but felt they had fairly put 
matters right for Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the case was passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to make a finding on whether Im satisfied UKI made an error when failing to 
renew Mr Ms motor insurance  thats been accepted by all parties. What I must consider is 
the impact on Mr M, and whether I think UKI took reasonable steps to put matters right. And, 
having done so, whilst I appreciate this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr M, 
I think they have. Ill explain why. 
Ive no doubt Mr M finding he had driven whilst uninsured  through no fault of his own  
would have been worrying and concerning. The impact this error could have had on him 
could have been far greater than what did happen. 
Mr M says that, just because he wasnt stopped by police, or involved in an incident, whilst 
driving uninsured, doesnt remove the severity of the error caused by UKI. I do agree, but I 
also need to consider the direct impact of what did happen. As such, I am unable to direct 
UKI to compensate Mr M for things that could have occurred  but didnt  because of their 
error. 
Mr M drove to work whilst uninsured and finding this to be the case would have caused him 
to experience worry and distress. As such, I also think some compensation to recognise this 
is due. I find UKI acknowledged their error and took reasonable steps to put matters right by 
paying Mr M £30 compensation for call costs and any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Whilst I accept the impact of the error could have been far more severe, fortunately it wasnt, 
so, I find £30 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Had the impact on Mr M been more severe as he suggests it could have been, such as 
being stopped by the police or involved in an incident, I could have considered this as a 
direct impact on him. Though as above, fortunately that didnt occur, so Im unable to direct 
UKI to pay further compensation in this respect. 
Mr M also complained about the partial premium refund amount and the administration of the 
policy amendment he requested in September 2021. UKIs handling of this caused Mr M to 
make further calls and experience further inconvenience and frustration. Despite Mr M being 
told the policy would renew on 4 October 2021, with the amendment coming into effect in 
November 2021, this didnt happen due to an error caused by UKI. 
Having considered everything else that happened, I find UKI fairly put matters right here. 
They paid Mr M a further £82 for further call costs, the remaining amount due to him as part 
of the partial premium refund, and £75 compensation. Overall, Im satisfied this puts Mr M 
back in the position he should have been in had things been handled much better. And I find 
the compensation amount for the two complaints Mr M raised is fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate to the impact on Mr M. Therefore, I wont be directing UKI to do anything 
further here. I appreciate Mr M thinks our service should be upholding this complaint given what 
happened. I hope its helpful I explain I absolutely agree with him that things should have 
been handled much better overall. My decision recognises UKIs failings here, but also, and 
importantly, the reasonable steps I think UKI took in attempting to put matters right. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman