DRN-3065726
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct lent to him irresponsibly 
when it gave him a loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr M took out an unsecured loan for £7,000 with First Direct in July 2015. He said he wanted 
to buy a car with it. It was repayable over five years.
Mr M says that First Direct failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial 
position. He thinks First Direct was negligent in allowing him to take the loan. He asks that 
First Direct pay back all interest and any charges he paid and to pay him compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr M made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
First Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that First Direct should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Ms income, the total amount Mr M borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr M had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
In Mr Ms case, he already had an existing relationship with First Direct, so it was able to 
review the conduct of his account and establish whether it considered the loan repayments 
to be affordable. Mr M had not had his account with First Direct for very long, having 
switched it from another bank, so First Direct only had a few months of account data to rely 
on. His account was in good order and he appears to have had a substantial amount of 
disposable income. First Direct conducted a credit check and saw nothing of concern. 
Although the specifics of that credit check are no longer available given the length of time 
since the application, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary I am satisfied that any 
credit check would have reflected Mr Ms apparent good financial circumstances at the time.
Our investigator indicated they thought that First Direct ought to have done more checks, but 
that even if more checks had been done they didnt think it was inappropriate or 
irresponsible to lend to Mr M. I depart from the investigator on this point  although it makes 
no difference to the outcome. I think First Direct did sufficient checks.
First Direct is largely a telephone-based bank. It spoke to Mr M when he made his 
application.  It had a conversation with Mr M where it queried the purpose of the loan and 
discussed his personal circumstances. First Direct has provided a copy of those notes. They 
show Mr M told First Direct that he was living rent and expenses-free with family. He told 
First Direct he was working for a large corporate organisation and had no probationary 
period. His salary was paid into his First Direct account. He had only one credit card with a 
limit of £200 which he cleared each month. Notes reflect that the adviser considered asking 
for three months bank statements from Mr Ms previous bank but that they concluded the 
information they had gleaned from his account activity, credit check and conversation was 
sufficient to approve the loan. Indeed, the conversation was repeated when Mr M called 
back to confirm that he had found a car he wanted to purchase which required a slightly 
larger loan. Mr M hasnt suggested that any of this information was wrong  and First Direct 
were entitled to rely on what Mr M told it. 
I appreciate that a couple of years later Mr M became unwell and his financial circumstances 
deteriorated. But I dont think First Direct could have foreseen this at the time of application.
Having reviewed the checks First Direct made and the information available to it I do not 
think it made an unreasonable decision to offer the loan to Mr M. 
In conclusion, I do not think First Direct acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mr M 
and so I do not think Mr M lost out as a result of anything First Direct did wrong. It follows 
that I do not think First Direct needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint so it follows that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First 
Direct, doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman