DRN-1937403
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way Nationwide Building Society has treated her during a 
period of financial difficulty. Shes unhappy about the overdraft fees and charges it has 
applied and shes said it increased her overdraft irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss S held a Flex Account with Nationwide. In July 2018 she upgraded her account to a 
Flex Direct Account and applied for an increase to her existing £600 overdraft. 
Nationwide accepted the online applications and increased Miss Ss overdraft to £3500. 
Miss S also applied for two loans with Nationwide, both of which she says she regretted and 
repaid in full, soon after taking them out.
In September 2019 Nationwide wrote to Miss S to let her know about changes it was making 
to fees and charges for going overdrawn. Miss S was unhappy about these changes and 
brought a complaint to this service, saying Nationwide had lent to her irresponsibly (she 
couldnt afford the overdraft increases as she wasnt in regular employment and had no 
money in her account), that it wasnt treating her fairly by changing its pricing structure, and 
that it has only offered her limited options going forward.
Our investigator considered the complaint and agreed that Nationwide had increased 
Miss Ss overdraft irresponsibly and that it should rework the account to remove all interest, 
fees and charges that wouldve been applied on the increased amount. Our investigator also 
said Miss S should still pay back the overdraft but that Nationwide should work with her to do 
so. 
Miss S was unhappy with our investigators view and so the case has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I agree with our investigator and Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I 
know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision. She has made a number of detailed 
submissions and Ive given careful consideration to everything she has said, including what 
she has told us about her mental health, which I appreciate must have been very difficult for 
her to share. I know Miss S feels strongly about this matter  and I mean no discourtesy to 
her by dealing in this decision only with what I feel are the most relevant issues here, rather 
than responding to each individual point raised.
Increases to overdraft limit
Miss S says she was not mentally well when she made the applications to increase her 
overdraft. Ive considered the medical evidence shes provided and while it wouldnt be right 
for me to comment on Miss Ss state of mind at that point in time or indeed now, I can see 
that Miss S is a particularly vulnerable consumer and I have taken this into account in 
making my decision.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out, (with reference to the OFT 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance), that checks performed by a business before lending to a 
customer should be proportionate, and I dont think they were in this case. As our 
investigator found, Nationwide accepted 12 applications from Miss S to increase her 
overdraft within just two days. This shouldnt have happened, and additional checks would 
have alerted Nationwide to the fact that these increases were unaffordable for Miss S. So I 
think Nationwide increased the overdraft irresponsibly and Im upholding this aspect of the 
complaint.
Changes to overdraft interest and charges
Ive looked at the Terms and Conditions of Miss Ss Flex Direct Account, which state that 
Nationwide can vary the charges and interest rates applying to overdrafts and that if they 
do this, theyll let customers know no less than 30 days in advance. 
It isnt for us to tell a business what it can or cannot charge its customers for an overdraft 
facility, as long as it has met certain obligations under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) guidelines. I can see that Nationwide complied with these guidelines and the terms 
of the account by giving adequate notice of the changes to Miss S before applying the new 
pricing structure, and by offering her assistance if she felt this would cause her financial 
difficulty.
Following this, Nationwide offered to freeze the interest on Miss Ss account for a period of 
time, which Miss S welcomed. So I dont think it acted unfairly in relation to this aspect of 
Miss Ss complaint.
Treatment of a vulnerable customer in financial difficulty and next steps
Businesses are obligated under CONC to treat a customer positively and sympathetically 
during a period of financial difficulty. Although Nationwide did freeze the interest on the 
account, and says it will continue to do so until 2 September 2020, I still think it couldve 
done more to assess Miss Ss financial situation and take into account the difficulties she 
was experiencing with her mental health, before considering ways in which it could help her. 
Having said this, Miss S has had the benefit of the overdraft funds, so I agree that its fair for 
her to repay those, despite the fact that she does not feel shes in a position to repay the 
debt in full. Ive taken into account the way in which Miss S says she spent the money. But 
Ive seen Miss Ss bank statements for around the time most of the overdraft was initially 
spent. And I cant see any evidence from these which would warrant the debt being written 
off either in its entirety or in part. For example, the statement dated 26 July 2018, which was 
around the time Miss Ss overdraft increased to £3000, shows several transfers to different 
accounts and so I cant safely conclude that this was an example of manic or compulsive 
spending. Miss S should therefore repay Nationwide over a period of time, but I also think 
Nationwide needs to do more to help Miss S manage those repayments without her falling 
into further debt or difficulty. 
For example, I find it unreasonable for Nationwide to have expected Miss S to pay £150 per 
month towards clearing her overdraft if, as she has said, this was not affordable for her. 
Miss S is aware that its not for the ombudsman service to determine what amount should be 
payable and, although this doesnt help Miss S, that remains a matter for Nationwide and Miss S to agree on, once a proper assessment of Miss Ss current financial situation has 
been made. 
Miss S says she has already performed an income and expenditure assessment verbally 
with Nationwide. She says she gave considerable detail and is unwilling to go through this 
process again as her circumstances have not changed. But Nationwide will need to perform 
another detailed and up-to-date income and expenditure assessment with Miss S in order to 
reach an agreement with Miss S that is affordable for her in her current circumstances, 
which takes into account the information she has given about her mental health and which 
properly assesses her current ability to repay the debt. I think it is fair for another 
assessment to be carried out because some time has passed since the last time this was 
done. 
I would expect both parties to be open to discussing various possibilities, including but not 
limited to the payment of nominal or reduced sums, extending the suppression of further 
overdraft interest, charges or fees, extending the 24 month limit for the overdraft to be 
cleared, and any other reasonable options in light of Miss Ss circumstances. Nationwide has 
said it could accept payments as low as £1 per month for a period of 6 months, (but not as a 
long-term solution) followed by a further assessment of Miss Ss circumstances after this 
period, to see what Miss S can afford at that time. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I should make clear that Nationwide is not obligated to agree to any particular course of 
action mentioned here, as long as it gives due consideration to the factors Ive highlighted  
and in particular Miss Ss personal circumstances and the specific vulnerabilities of which 
shes already made Nationwide aware. This means it should consciously employ any 
relevant and suitable policies and procedures it has in place for vulnerable customers. This 
service cannot dictate which methods Nationwide should employ, as each business has its 
own policies and procedures for helping vulnerable customers.
If Miss S feels Nationwide still isnt treating her fairly going forward, then she is entitled to 
bring a separate complaint to this service about new events that have taken place, though I 
am hopeful that following this decision the parties will be able to agree a mutually acceptable 
repayment plan.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should:
rework Miss Ss account removing all fees, charges and interest incurred on any 
overdraft increase above £600. (Any refund may be used to reduce the amount of the 
overdraft.)
if a balance remains owing on the account following removal of the above-mentioned 
fees, charges and interest, perform a detailed income and expenditure assessment 
with Miss S and agree a repayment plan with Miss S to clear the remainder.
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to her 
ability to repay any of the overdraft after it was increased beyond £600, and should 
not record any adverse information on her credit file in relation to the increased parts 
of the overdraft in future.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman