DRN-3569102
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined their travel insurance
claim for costs incurred.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts arent in dispute.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 June 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to not uphold the complaint. My reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs B have been refunded £6,287 by the tour operator which consists of the 
unused costs provided by the tour operator. No further refunds are available from the 
tour operator.
Mr and Mrs B didnt return home early before the scheduled return date. Although I 
accept that a part of the trip was curtailed, it wasnt cut short in its entirety as the 
return date to the UK was after the original intended return date. So, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, the curtailment section of their policy term doesnt 
apply in this case.
Ive considered the remaining terms and conditions of their travel insurance policy. 
But there are no other sections of their policy that apply to the claim theyve made 
and the situation they found themselves in. This means there is no cover for what 
happened under their policy.
They incurred additional costs of £4,194.84 and AWP have offered to pay this 
amount to settle the claim. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Given there is no cover available for this claim under their policy, I think the offer from 
AWP to pay £4,194.84 is more than fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I wont be directing AWP to do anything further.
It would be up to Mr and Mrs B to decide whether they wish to accept the offer or not. 
If they wish to accept it, they will need to contact AWP directly and inform it of this.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
AWP said it has nothing further to add. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs B say the following:
Interest hasnt been added to the late payment of compensation.
Theyve already accepted the offer of £4,194.84.
The tour operator refunded the unused costs of their trip but declined to provide a 
breakdown of their costs. Mr and Mrs G proposed a two separate calculation for the 
unused part of their trip and would like this settled.
The curtailment costs related to the tour operator costs should be allowed in the 
same way as any other costs that arose as a result of repatriation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision and I wont beawp 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why:
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have accepted the offer of £4,194.84. However, this offer 
has been made with the aim of resolving the complaint. Under the terms and 
conditions of their policy, there is no obligation on AWP to make this offer. As such 
no interest would be awarded.
Its unfortunate the tour operator didnt provide a breakdown of the costs. Thats 
however a matter between the tour operator and Mr and Mrs B. This is because 
under the terms and conditions of their policy, there is no section that applies for 
what happened in their circumstances. And while the tour operator paid a proportion 
of the overall cost, its not AWPs responsibility under the terms and conditions of the 
policy to cover the remaining amount.
The curtailment section of the policy doesnt provide cover for what happened in Mr 
and Mrs Bs circumstances and therefore these remaining costs arent covered.
It remains now that if Mr and Mrs B wish accept the offer made by AWP of £4,194.84, they 
should contact it directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against AWP P&C 
SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman