DRN-3719649
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his let property insurer HDI Global SE regarding a claim he 
made to it when his property was damaged by a water leak.
What happened
There was a leak from the flat above Mr Bs property in June 2020. Mr B reported it 
straightaway but seemingly was given incorrect contact numbers and it was July before 
HDIs loss adjusting company (Q) was made aware of the claim. A loss adjuster visited on 
1 August 2020 and found damage to the bathroom, bedroom and hall. But felt that water 
damage at low levels in the property had been caused by defective seals around the bath 
(an uninsured loss).
Q asked Mr B for quotes and evidence of the condition of the property prior to the leak. It 
spoke to Mr Bs contractor who referred to damage in the kitchen as well. In December 2020 
Mr B appointed a loss assessor to act for him and in January 2021 Q agreed to appoint a 
water claim and leak specialist to consider the damage in the flat. The specialist also felt the 
bath seals were an issue. This was disputed by Mr Bs loss assessor and in June 2021 Q 
visited the property again. During the visit the adjuster asked the tenant for any evidence 
they had of the leak occurring, a video was presented showing large amounts of water 
flooding through the ceiling. Q then accepted that at least part of the low level damage had 
likely been caused by the leak and the claim progressed. 
The loss assessor and Q negotiated the claim and a full and final settlement offer for the 
cost of works and lost rent was put forward by Q in July 2021, with repairs at the property 
completing in August 2021. The claim was recorded as fully settled by October 2021.
However, Mr B, having complained to this service in June 2021, told us that he was still out 
of pocket for emergency repairs. He said he wanted to return some rent back to his tenants 
by way of compensating them for having lived in an uninhabitable property for so long. And 
that he had lost rent for the two months, during the works, when theyd had to move into 
alternative accommodation. He said HDI shouldve moved the claim on, making a better 
offer of settlement sooner. And if it had the repairs would have been done that much sooner.   
Our Investigator ultimately explained to Mr B that an award of compensation in respect of the 
tenants could not be made by this service. But he felt HDI should be paying a loss of rent 
claim for the period the tenants were out of the property, as well as reimbursing Mr Bs costs 
incurred for emergency repairs. He also felt HDI should be paying Mr B £750 compensation 
for the upset he had been caused.
Mr B indicated he was satisfied with most of our Investigators findings. But said it seemed 
unfair that compensation which could, and would, be paid to the tenants could not be 
awarded  after all hed have been making a much more expensive claim and complaint 
about lost rent if they had left. 
HDI said it didnt agree with the findings. It said it had settled the claim in full, including for 
lost rent. 
The complaint came to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt it should be upheld 
regarding Mr Bs outlay for emergency work and compensation. But, given HDIs response to 
our Investigators view, I needed review the position regarding lost rent. So I issued a 
provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
Lost rent for period of works
Mr B said he lost two months rent whilst the tenants were moved out for works. The policy 
would entitle Mr B to settlement in that respect because it covers rent lost, as well as 
alternative accommodation costs incurred, for the period of works where the property is 
uninhabitable (not just because the property is uninhabitable). And it was. But HDI has 
shown us that this loss  for two months rent lost during the period of works  for Mr B has 
already been settled, although I appreciate that wasnt the case when Mr B first made his 
complaint. As it has been settled though, there is nothing more for me to say on this point.
Rent rebate/compensation for tenants
The tenants remained in the property from the point of the leak until reinstatement works 
began in summer 2021. They paid full rent to Mr B during that time even though their home 
was in an unsatisfactory and damaged state. Mr B would like to be able to compensate them 
by returning some rental costs to them.
I can only make awards for non-financial and financial loss caused to or incurred by the 
eligible complainant  Mr B. So I cant award compensation for the tenants  who are not 
eligible complainants, either directly or to Mr B for him to pass on to them. And whilst I can 
understand that Mr B may now want to provide a rebate to the tenants, he did not do so 
during the claim, so he has not suffered a financial loss in this respect. 
Thats not to say that I, or any other ombudsman at this service, would automatically make 
an award to Mr B in respect of any financial loss he incurs, should he now choose to pay 
something to his tenants. The loss itself wouldnt automatically entitle him to an award for the 
sum in question. Rather the details available at the time about the loss incurred would have 
to be considered against such things as relevant policy terms, any claim activity such as 
settlement agreements reached, and whether or not the insurer had failed the complainant in 
a way that caused them to incur the loss. I add this here to ensure that Mr B understands 
that his incurring a loss will not automatically mean he will be entitled to reimbursement of 
his outlay, either directly from HDI, or as part of a further complaint made to this service.
Emergency costs
Mr B has said he incurred costs when the leak occurred. I dont doubt what he says in this 
respect. There was clearly a lot of water coming through the ceiling in the area of the light 
fixture and Mr B has said he paid £300 for an electrician. Whilst Ive not seen the invoices, 
this would often be the type of charge Id expect to be covered under a claim. And Ive seen 
nothing in the policy or claim activity that makes me think HDI shouldnt cover this cost here. 
I know HDI settled for the restoration work; initially having put forward its settlement offer, 
including a payment for loss of rent, as being in full and final settlement of all liabilities under 
the claim. But I think that by the time the settlement was agreed, with substantial further 
negotiations having taken place, HDI appeared to be offering settlements separately for 
different aspects of the claim. The settlements finally made appear to be for restoration 
works and loss of rent. I havent seen that the emergency costs, incurred by Mr B at the start 
of the claim before restoration work began, were considered by it. And given the further 
negotiations which, effectively, created a step away from the full and final offer originally put forward, I think I can fairly require HDI to settle this loss. If Mr B presents the invoice/s in 
response to this decision, it should now reimburse the outlay. And if Mr B can show this was 
sent to Q or HDI previously, it will have to add interest* to the amount paid from the date it 
was paid until settlement is made.
Claim handling
I think HDI failed Mr B in this respect. I think there are four key things it got wrong. And if it 
hadnt the course of the claim would have much improved with it progressing to settlement 
many months before it ultimately did.
The four key issues which I perceive as failures by HDI to handle this claim in a reasonable 
manner are:
Q was told at the outset that a lot of water came through the ceiling. But its adjuster 
visiting in August 2020 didnt seem to be aware of that or take it into account.
Q was told in August, after the adjusters visit, that there was other damage at the 
property not considered or noted by the adjuster. But no action in respect of the other 
damage occurred until January 2021 when the specialist was appointed.
The upstairs tenant wasnt spoken to with a view to ascertaining the nature of the leak 
until sometime around March 2021. At which point it was confirmed to have been from a 
water supply pipe (under mains pressure). 
Mr B was asked for evidence of the propertys condition before the leak. But seemingly 
neither he nor the tenant, until June 2021, were asked for evidence of the leak occurring.
I also note, in more general terms, that in Qs June 2021 report suggestions are made about 
various actions that could be undertaken to validate this claim. But I simply cant see why it 
took so long for Q/HDI to accept that it needed to act in respect of validating it. And it is clear 
to me, having identified the key failures above, that if HDI had taken some reasonable 
validation steps earlier in the claim, or even just taken proper note of the claim as reported, it 
would have known that substantial water entered the flat, sufficient to potentially cause 
damage at low levels. There were clearly other factors at hand causing issues within the flat 
 having seen the August report and that from the leak specialist, I dont doubt the bath 
seals were causing damage. But that didnt mean that HDI was reasonably not liable for 
other insured damage which had occurred. I think if HDI had handled things reasonably the 
claim would have progressed by the end of 2020, such that once Mr B had appointed his 
loss assessor in December 2020, the repairs couldve commenced and completed in 
early 2021.
As it was, repairs only commenced in summer 2021, completing in the August. So the claim 
was delayed unreasonably by HDI by around seven months. I think Mr B was likely shielded 
a lot from the stresses of handling an unreasonably delayed claim like this as he had 
appointed loss assessors to handle things for him. But he was still aware that matters were 
unresolved and that the disputes over the claim continued. He was clearly mindful that, if 
things remained that way, that he would have to find the money for repairs. And he had to 
live during that time knowing that all the while his long-term tenants were suffering, that at 
some point they might understandably become uncooperative in respect of rent and/or 
leave. I dont doubt he was significantly worried during this time. I think £500 compensation 
is fairly and reasonably due. 
HDI said it had nothing further to add. Mr B said he was still disappointed that his tenants 
would get nothing given what theyd been through. He reiterated that he had sent all relevant details to HDI before and that the seals had been fine before the leak from the flat above. He 
provided a copy of the invoice for emergency work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs concern about his tenants. But Ive explained why I cant make an award 
in respect of their distress and inconvenience. 
I know Mr B feels that HDI ignored and/or lost evidence he sent to it. And that this delayed 
his claim. As I explained provisionally, I think HDI did fail Mr B in respect of this claim and, if 
it hadnt, it would have been resolved much sooner.
Im aware that Mr B spent a lot of time trying to move this claim on and resolve it. There is 
always an amount of involvement needed from a policyholder in progressing claims. But 
clearly Mr B wouldnt have needed to have been as involved here if HDI had handled things 
better. I remain of the view though that £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due for 
the upset Mr B was caused. 
I note the invoice provided by Mr B. Our Investigator will pass it onto HDI with its copy of this 
final decision.
Putting things right
I require HDI to:
Reimburse Mr Bs outlay for emergency electrical work undertaken at the property in 
June/July 2020, this subject to the provision of invoices and evidence of payment being 
provided. And if proof is also provided showing the invoice/s were sent to Q or HDI 
before, interest* will also have to be added to the sum to be paid to Mr B from the date 
he paid the invoice/s until settlement is made.
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the upset it caused him.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires HDI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global SE to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman