DRN-4249236
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in September 2013.
Mr Y says that the account was mis-sold because he was told that he could not secure a 
mortgage product that hed been offered unless he upgraded his account to an URCA.
What happened
One of our adjudicators didnt think that the URCA had been mis-sold.
Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the URCA was mis-sold.
Mr Y says that he applied for a mortgage product with Halifax but was told that if he wanted 
the specific product being offered to him, he would have to upgrade his account to an URCA. 
I understand that the upgrade occurred online  Mr Y says he did this following on from the 
advice hed received.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the sale of the URCA and the mortgage took place, there 
is limited evidence available to show what exactly was discussed with Mr Y. But Halifax has 
been able to provide copies of its records for Mr Y and some documents from the time. So I 
have considered Mr Ys recollections of events alongside all of the other evidence to decide 
what I think most likely happened.
Halifax has been able to provide a copy of a mortgage offer document from 2013. In this 
document it says:
FAD065 obliges you to take out or hold a Halifax/Bank of Scotland current account 
(minimum monthly credits £1,000) or Ultimate Reward Current Account. as a 
condition of this mortgage.
Based on the above information, it appears that it was a condition of the mortgage offer that 
Mr Y either: held a fee-free current account - providing he credited at least £1,000 per 
month; or alternatively, he would have to hold a fee-paying URCA instead. 
I cant say that Halifax was being unfair or unreasonable by including such conditions in the 
mortgage offer. Its not unusual for mortgage offers to include specific conditions, and 
ultimately, Mr Y was not obliged to accept the mortgage offer if he was unhappy with any 
aspect of it.
Its not clear whether Mr Y was able to or wanted to credit at least £1,000 per month into his 
Halifax current account so that he could continue with a fee-free account. But overall, I think 
that the mortgage offer document made it reasonably clear, before the mortgage offer was 
accepted, what options were available to Mr Y regarding his current account, should he wish 
to accept the mortgage offer. So I think that Mr Y was in all likelihood given a fair choice of 
whether to upgrade his account to an URCA or not.
As such, Im unable to conclude that the URCA was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman