DRN-3152379
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Mortgage Express dealt with his request for a payment 
deferral and that it didnt tell him his account was in arrears. He also complains that 
Mortgage Express unfairly recorded arrears on his credit file. 
 
What happened
Mr O asked for, and was granted, a payment deferral for April, May and June 2020. He says 
he didnt realise this had ended until he received a letter in August with his new contractual 
monthly payments (CMP).
In August Mr O asked Mortgage Express if he could apply retrospectively for a payment 
deferral for July 2020. Mortgage Express said it would look into this and get back to him in 
10 days. During this call, Mortgage Express told Mr O that his account was in arrears. Mr O 
couldnt understand this and raised a complaint.
Later in August, Mr O was told his request for a retrospective payment holiday was also 
being treated as a complaint with an eight-week response time. While he was waiting for 
Mortgage Express to respond to his request for a retrospective payment deferral he received 
an arrears letter and found it had recorded arrears on his credit file. While Mr O made his 
CMP for August it arrived late, in early September.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties saying I didnt think Mortgage Express treated 
Mr O fairly when he asked for a retrospective payment deferral. I said it should apply a 
payment deferral to Mr Os account for July 2020, and amend his account and (if 
appropriate) credit file accordingly, and pay Mr O £100 for the upset caused.
Mortgage Express agreed. Mr O didnt respond. I didnt receive any further evidence or 
comments that would persuade me to change my findings or outcome from my provisional 
decision  and which were substantially as set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
2019 arrears
Mr O pays his CMP by standing order at the end of the month in which the payment is due. 
Sometimes the payment doesnt arrive until the beginning of the next month. No payment 
was received during May 2019. Mr O had a small credit on the account which reduced the 
arrears amount below one CMP. Mortgage Express says it tried to contact him by phone, but 
didnt send an arrears letter as the arrears were less than one CMP. I dont think Mortgage 
Express made an error with this.
April 2020
Mortgage Express granted Mr O a payment deferral for April, May and June 2020. It wrote to 
him confirming the payment deferral and saying a payment would be due in July 2020.
Mortgage Express told Mr O when it spoke to him in April 2020 that it was receiving his 
monthly payments late. It sent Mr O a statement which showed the missed payment for May 
2019. It gave him information about how to ensure payments arrive on time and sent him a 
direct debit mandate form. Mortgage Express made Mr O aware of the problem with 
payments arriving late and offered information to help solve this.
However, Mortgage Express made an error when it told Mr O his account was in credit: in 
fact, it was in arrears.
August 2020
Mortgage Express wrote to Mr O in June 2020 saying his payment holiday would soon end 
and his payments would resume in July. Unfortunately, Mr O didnt receive this letter. 
Mortgage Express tried to contact Mr O about the payment hed missed in July, without 
success. However, Mr O contacted Mortgage Express in August to ask for a payment 
deferral for July 2020 retrospectively as he wasnt back at work yet.
Mortgage Express told him about his arrears. There was a discussion about Mr Os 
payments arriving late. Mr O didnt agree and raised a complaint.
When Mr O spoke to Mortgage Express on 25 August it told him his request for a 
retrospective payment deferral was being looked into as a complaint and could take up to 
eight weeks. It suggested he make a payment as normal to protect his credit file.
Mr O made a payment for August, but this didnt arrive with Mortgage Express until early 
September. The payment was late, and when it was added to existing arrears this was more 
than one CMP. An arrears letter was sent and arrears recorded on Mr Os credit file.
Mortgage Express converted Mr Os request for a retrospective payment deferral for July 
2020 to a complaint. This meant he didnt have an answer within the initial 10-day timeframe. 
But by 25 August Mr O knew that he wouldnt have an answer by the end of August. 
Mortgage Express said he should make his August payment to protect his credit file. It was 
only when the payment due in August arrived late that arrears were recorded on Mr Os 
credit file.
Was it fair for Mortgage Express to record the arrears on Mr Os credit file?
I dont think it was wrong for Mortgage Express to record arrears when it didnt receive the 
payment for August, as this was factually correct. By this point Mortgage Express had given 
Mr O clear information about his payments arriving late and how to avoid this. When 
considering whether to remove the arrears from Mr Os credit file Mortgage Express took into 
account that he was in financial hardship and had called about a payment deferral. It also 
took into account that Mr O had asked for the deferral the month after the payment was due 
and that his account had a history of late payments.
When Mr O asked Mortgage Express to remove the adverse data from his credit file I think it 
considered this fairly and took his circumstances into account. So while I understand Mr Os 
frustration about the arrears on his credit file I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Mortgage Express to remove the data.
Was it fair for Mortgage Express to decline Mr Os request for a payment deferral?I asked Mortgage Express for some more information about why it didnt offer Mr O a 
retrospective payment deferral. It said while it did offer retrospective payment deferrals in 
exceptional circumstances it didnt think that applied here. It said it was agreeable to doing 
so if the ombudsman and Mr O agree.
Mr O had told Mortgage Express that he wouldnt return to work until August 2020 and was 
in financial hardship as a result. This was the sort of situation the regulator had in mind when 
it issued guidance for payment deferrals for customers experiencing hardship due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr O said he didnt ask for the payment deferral until early August as 
hed expected to be able to make his payment for July  due at the end of the month  but 
was unable to do so. 
The problem here was that Mr O didnt ask for a payment deferral earlier because he 
misjudged his financial situation, which isnt surprising given the difficult and unusual 
situation at that time. I think it would have been fair for Mortgage Express to agree the 
payment deferral retrospectively and amend Mr Os account accordingly  as it has said it 
will now do.
Once Mortgage Express amends Mr Os account to reflect the payment deferral for July 
2020 it might be that this means his account wasnt in more than one months arrears as a 
result of the late payment for August 2020. If so, it should correct his credit file accordingly. I 
also think it would be fair for Mortgage Express to pay £100 compensation for the upset 
caused by it not giving Mr O clear information about how and when it would respond to his 
request for a payment deferral.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Mortgage Express to:
apply a payment deferral to Mr Os account for July 2020, and amend his account and (if 
appropriate) credit file accordingly; and
pay £100 to Mr O. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman