DRN-3082500
The complaint
Mrs M says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that the Morses 
loans caused her financial difficulties. Morses should have seen this and not lent to 
her.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld in part, but 
for slightly different reasons, and I upheld different loans. A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and smaller font. These form part 
of this final decision. 
This complaint is about six home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs M between 
November 2013 and February 2016.
loan date taken amount weekly
instalmentsdate repaid
1 22/11/2013 £400 50 03/10/2014
2 01/08/2014 £300 50 12/06/2015
3 03/10/2014 £400 50 20/11/2015
4 12/06/2015 £300 34 01/02/2016
5 20/11/2015 £500 52 01/09/2017
6 01/02/2016 £300 33 01/09/2017
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Morses had acted 
inappropriately when it approved loans 1 to 3. But she thought that by loan 4 the lending 
pattern itself had become harmful. And so Morses shouldnt have approved loans 4 to 6.
Morses agreed with the adjudicators opinion in part. It didnt think that four loans in 19 months 
was excessive. And it noted that the loan amounts didnt increase by a significantly. The loans 
seemed affordable in the main. It did agree that it shouldnt have approved loan 6 and it offered 
to pay compensation for the sale of this loan.
Mrs M didnt agree with the offer made. Although her concerns seem to centre on the 
interest rate used rather than which loans the offer covered.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and have explained why 
below.
Loans 1 to 3
Morses says that Mrs M had an average weekly income of £500 and she had regular weekly 
outgoings of £260. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have assumed that these loans 
were affordable for her.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs M mightve been having, or that the information Mrs M had provided 
was incorrect. And I havent seen anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Mrs Ms 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 3 were 
likely to be proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 was reasonable.
Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about them.
Loan 4
By loan 4 Mrs M had been using this type of lending for around 19 months. And there was no 
appreciable break in her indebtedness.
So, I think Morses couldve realised at that time that Mrs M may have some longer-term financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
Morses shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mrs Ms true 
financial situation. So, I think its checks shouldve gone further than they did at this point.
But Mrs M hasnt provided any information to show me what Morses wouldve likely seen if it had 
made better checks. So, I cant say for certain that it wouldve seen that these loans werent 
affordable for her, or that it shouldnt have lent for any other reason.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Mrs M was struggling 
financially and that she was likely to be reliant on the lending. But the repayments seem 
reasonable and the loan amounts didnt vary by much. And looking at the account statements 
Morses has provided it seems that Mrs M wasnt having any obvious problems making her 
repayments.
I agree that 19 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. But taking 
everything else into consideration I dont think this means the lending was unsustainable in this 
case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs M was reliant on this lending and it wasnt 
causing her significant problems when Morses approved the loans.
Loans 5 and 6
I can see that Morses now agrees that it shouldnt have approved loan 6 now. I agree with the 
offer it has made for this loan and Ive included it in my putting things right section.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 5. because I dont think 
that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Mrs 
M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ms case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
Mrs M had been indebted to Morses for two years, which is a long time to be using 
high cost credit.
Mrs Ms first loan was for £400. Loan 5 was a slight increase on this at £500. And it was 
a commitment for a further year. At this point Morses ought to have known that Mrs M 
was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter term need for money but to meet an ongoing 
need.
Right from the start Mrs M was provided with a new loan very soon after repaying 
one. And she often had more than one loan running at the same time.
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably.
Overall Mrs M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs M lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Morses should put things 
right.Morses, and Mrs M, received my provisional decision. Morses didnt have anything to add to 
it. 
Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision. She didnt think that Morses had lent 
responsibly for loans 2 to 4. This was because she says:
For loans 4, 5 and 6 she used the new loan to repay an existing one. And she was 
also in arrears at times. 
She didnt earn as much as Morses recorded, she earned far less. 
She asked that Morses provide a repayment history, and documents that it relied on 
at the time of sale, to show the loans were affordable.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, Morses doesnt have full information for the loans taken out over six years ago. 
That is loans 1 to 4. This is not unreasonable given the passage of time. And whilst Mrs M 
has commented on her circumstances, she also hasnt been able to provide any further 
information from this far back to support what she says. Again, this isnt unreasonable. That 
said, I do think I have enough to fairly decide this compliant.  
Morses does have a record of the start and end dates of loans 1 to 4. These dont indicate 
Mrs M had significant repayment problems. She pays these loans largely on time and only 
has two loans running at once. And I can accept that she did sometimes use new lending to 
repay an existing loan. Although this looks like it happened over the later loans as the earlier 
loans ran for the intended term. Given all of this, I think the lending pattern supports my 
earlier decision that the lending became problematic over loans 5 and 6.  
So, in summary, I still think its likely that Morses checks were proportionate for loans 1 to 3. 
It may have been that Morses should have made better checks before approving loan 4. But, 
as I said in my provisional decision, without further evidence about what Mrs Ms income or 
expenditure was at the time, Im unable to uphold her complaint on this basis. 
So, overall, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I 
think Morses shouldnt have approved loans 5 and 6. 
I can see Mrs M feels strongly about her complaint and Im sure this isnt the answer she 
was hoping for. Nevertheless, I hope my explanation is helpful.  
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs M from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly 
dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Mrs M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs M loans 5 and 6.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ms borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ms 
credit file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to 
do the same.
E) Morses should provide a breakdown of the compensation calculation and how the 
interest refunded relates to what Mrs M has actually paid in interest.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses 
should give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she 
asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman