DRN-1999732
The complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited misled him into entering into a 
hire purchase agreement for a car and didnt properly explain the implications of doing so. 
References in this decision to BMW are to BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.
What happened
Summary
Mr M has explained that, at the end of 2015, he was looking for a new car. He says he had 
around £20,000 to spend  as a cash buyer.
Mr M says he spent around five to six hours at the dealership, discussing various options. 
He was persuaded to enter into a four-year credit agreement for a brand-new car. He recalls 
being told that he could secure the value of the car after four years to a minimum of £12,000 
and that, if his mileage was more than the mileage cap in the agreement, BMW would let 
him extend the agreement. 
In 2019 Mr M says that he fell into financial difficulties; as a result, some of his payments to 
BMW were made late. 
When, at the end of 2019, the finance agreement came to an end BMW told Mr M that:
it wouldnt provide him with any further credit;
he would have to pay 9.19p per mile over 32,000 miles (by then the cars recorded 
mileage was around 108,000); and 
it valued the car at £5,000, some £7,000 less than it had indicated four years earlier.
Mr M says, in summary, that the agreement he was led to believe he was entering into was 
significantly different from the deal he actually agreed. 
The sale and credit agreement
Ill set out in this section of this decision the three documents evidencing what was agreed 
among BMW, the dealership and Mr M. 
Mr M signed  on page 3 of a five-page document  a New Vehicle Contract with the 
dealership. That set out the details of the car, the optional extras provided with it and other 
items (delivery, first registration fee and fuel). It recorded that the basic car cost £31,305; 
extras valued at £1,345 were added, along with other items costing £830. From the total 
were deducted deposits totalling £2,750 and a Special Allowance of over £5,500. The total 
due to complete the sale was therefore £25,172.59.  
Ive also been provided with a six-page document headed Pre-contract Credit Information. 
That document said that BMW was the lender and the dealership was the credit 
intermediary. It also included a section headed Key features of the credit product. This 
section recorded that the type of credit was a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and that the total amount of credit was £25,172.59  that is, the 
amount required to complete the sale, as recorded by the sale agreement. The document 
also said that the agreement would run for 48 months, and Mr M would have to make 47 
payments of £375 a month, followed by an optional final repayment (a balloon payment) of 
nearly £12,000.   
The pre-contract information document also included detailed terms and conditions. Section 
8 set out Mr Ms options at the end of the agreement. He could keep the car, by making the 
balloon payment; he could part-exchange it, again by making the balloon payment and then 
using it in a part-exchange arrangement; or he could return it. Section 8(d) said:
If the Vehicle has exceeded the Maximum Total Mileage, you must pay us the Excess 
Mileage Charge for depreciation for each mile covered in excess of the Maximum Total 
Mileage. See Page 1.
In fact, page 1 of that document didnt refer to Excess Mileage, although the Termination 
section on page 2 explained that Mr M would have pay all sums due under the agreement 
 (including any Excess Mileage Charge)  if he wanted to end the agreement before the 
final repayment fell due. 
The third document was the finance agreement itself  headed Hire Purchase Agreement 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This was a 2-page document to which Mr M 
added his signature on page 2. He did so beneath a declaration saying: 
IMPORTANT: BEFORE YOU SIGN, ENSURE YOU HAVE READ:
1) the information on page 1,
2) the information on page 2    
A statement beneath Mr Ms signature and the date said:
This is a Hire-Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only 
if you want to be legally bound by its terms.   
Page 1 of the agreement included:
Excess Mileage Charges for Depreciation
The Maximum Total Mileage is 32000 miles. Maximum annual mileage is 8000 miles.
An Excess Mileage Charge for depreciation will be payable at 9.19 pence for each mile 
covered in excess of the Maximum Total Mileage if you return the Vehicle at the end of this 
Agreement
The description of the car on page 1 of the hire purchase agreement included its registration 
number. That had been altered by hand, because the car was new, and the printed version 
of the document used a default registration (AB65ABC). It appears that Mr M initialled the 
alteration. 
The end of the hire period
Mr M says that, at the end of the four-year hire period, BMW said that he would have to pay 
an excess mileage charge of around £7,000. Hed used the car for around 108,000 miles, 
significantly more than the 32,000 miles allowance. The excess mileage would be deducted 
from the £12,000 that Mr M says was the cars guaranteed value. BMW therefore sought around £7,000 which it said was due under the finance agreement. 
Mr M thought that was unfair and couldnt make the payment of £12,000 needed if he 
wanted to keep the car. BMW wouldnt allow him to continue to pay £375 a month to clear 
what was due and wouldnt lend him any more money to repay the outstanding finance. 
Mr Ms complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold the finance. He thought he was taking out a loan, not a hire 
purchase arrangement. He was, he says, misled about the excess mileage. And he shouldnt 
have been offered a finance agreement at all, given he was a cash buyer. 
Mr M also complained about the insurance he took out with the car. He had an accident at 
the end of 2018 which wasnt his fault. Having initially been told that the car was a write-off, 
he was surprised that it was then repaired at a cost of more £12,000, more than its value. He 
says too that the insurance was BMW-branded, whereas it was in fact provided by a third 
party. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
didnt believe however that the finance had been mis-sold or that Mr M had been misled as 
to its nature or its terms. Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that 
they be reviewed by an ombudsman.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons.
Mr Ms submissions about this matter have been quite lengthy and correspondence between 
Mr M and the investigator continued for several months after the investigator issued his initial 
assessment of the complaint. I can assure both parties that Ive considered very carefully all 
the evidence and arguments. However, in keeping with the informal remit of the ombudsman 
service, Ive focussed here on what I consider to be the key points. 
Our role 
In his correspondence with the investigator, Mr M expressed the view that the investigator 
had based his conclusions on opinion, not facts, and asked which he had followed. I think it 
might be useful therefore to explain how I have reached this decision.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up under the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000. Section 228 of that Act requires me to determine Mr Ms complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. That 
requirement is reflected too in the dispute resolution (or DISP) rules laid down by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
The circumstances of the case are matters of fact. They may however be disputed. Where 
they are, Ive decided what I think is more likely to have happened. But, in deciding whats 
fair in the light of those facts, the law and our rules require me to form my own opinion. 
Nature of the finance agreement Mr M says that the finance agreement was mis-sold and that he was led to believe it was a 
simple loan agreement, not a hire purchase arrangement. 
In my view, however, it was quite clear that Mr M was entering into a hire purchase 
arrangement. That was clear from the pre-contract information and the hire purchase 
agreement itself  which was clearly headed as such, as required by the relevant 
regulations, The Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 2010. The agreement and the 
pre-contract information document set out the payments required. 
Mr M says  and I accept  that he spent several hours at the dealership. Having spent that 
long discussing his options and having had the opportunity to read the documents presented 
to him, I think it most unlikely that he didnt know that he was taking the car on hire-
purchase. 
General points about the sale of the agreement 
Mr M has said on several occasions that he thinks the sales process was flawed. He says he 
was lied to, that the arrangement wasnt appropriate to his needs and that there was no 
discussion of other options or the risks associated with the arrangement. 
Mr Ms allegation that the sales process was flawed is not well particularised. The regulator 
has set out in its rules about the sale of consumer credit (referred to as CONC) what a 
consumer can expect before they enter into a consumer credit arrangement, including a hire 
purchase agreement. To a large extent, however, those rules cover disclosure of certain 
features of the proposed credit agreement and the requirement to ensure that the credit is 
affordable. 
Im satisfied here that the nature of the agreement was disclosed and that it was affordable 
for Mr M at the time of sale. 
I dont believe Mr M was told that the hire purchase agreement was anything other than what 
it was. It and the pre-contract information document clearly referred to hire purchase. The 
primary risk associated with the arrangement was that Mr M might find himself unable to 
afford it. But it was only a change of circumstances that meant that Mr M found himself in 
that position. I dont believe that the dealership or BMW could be expected to advise Mr M 
on all the possible changes to his financial situation over the four-year period of his hire-
purchase agreement. 
I note that Mr M says that he intended to pay cash for a car. The fact that he took a car on 
finance instead, however, doesnt mean that the finance agreement was mis-sold. As he 
says the dealer noted, it meant that he could keep more of his savings; thats not necessarily 
poor advice. 
I note too that Mr M says he had a £20,000 cash budget and therefore had no need to take 
out a finance agreement. Before the application of the special allowance, however, the car 
he took on hire purchase had an on-the-road price of more than £33,000. Whether or not 
that allowance would have been available to a cash buyer, the finance agreement meant 
that Mr M could drive a more expensive car than would otherwise have been the case. 
The only concrete piece of arguably misleading information Mr M has referred to is the 
information Mr M says the salesman provided about himself. Having previously said he 
would never work for any other sales network, Mr M says the salesman moved to a different 
dealership very soon after the sale was completed. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr M says 
about that conversation, but it doesnt seem to me that this means Mr M was misled about 
the finance arrangements, still less that the sales process was flawed. Mr M has noted that the credit was front-loaded  that is, the interest was added to the 
amount of credit he was taking out and paid over the period of the hire purchase agreement. 
That is, however, perfectly normal and in line with relevant consumer credit legislation. Given 
that legislation is primarily intended to give protection to consumers, I cant properly 
conclude that it was unfair of BMW to arrange the finance in this way.            
Excess mileage and guaranteed value
The hire purchase agreement didnt include a guaranteed value  that is, a value that BMW 
would, all else being equal, attribute to the car at the end of the hire period. I accept though 
that Mr M was told it would be £12,000; indeed, thats consistent with what happened. 
BMW did however deduct an excess mileage fee from that figure, to produce a valuation of 
around £5,000. At the end of the agreement, therefore, Mr M owed the balloon repayment of 
around £12,000 less the value of the car. The value of the car was reduced by the 
depreciation attributed to the excess mileage. 
Mr M says that excess mileage was discussed when he entered into the agreement. He was 
told however that if he exceeded the mileage allowance it wouldnt matter if he kept the car. 
In the event, that wasnt possible, because of changes in Mr Ms credit history  he couldnt 
borrow money to make the balloon repayment or persuade BMW to extend further credit. 
Be that as it may, in my view the excess mileage provision  and Mr Ms options at the end 
of the hire period  were clearly set out in the hire purchase agreement. His options were to 
return the car and pay any excess mileage or to make the balloon repayment and keep the 
car (either as part of a part-exchange arrangement or otherwise). They didnt include an 
option to continue to make the same monthly payments. 
As Ive said, Mr M acknowledges that excess mileage was discussed. He says too that he 
expected to exceed the mileage allowance. I might have expected him therefore to have 
checked what the charge was for exceeding that mileage. Whether he did or not, he signed 
an agreement directly beneath a declaration that he had read the part of the agreement 
dealing with it and directly above a statement saying that he should only sign the document if 
he wanted to be legally bound by its terms. In the circumstances, I dont believe I can fairly 
conclude that Mr M wasnt bound by the excess mileage terms (or any other terms of the 
agreement), or that he and BMW actually agreed a different set of terms. 
Insurance
I summarised very briefly what I understand to be Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the 
insurance at the time of the sale of the finance. I have however only considered here the 
finance arrangements. The insurance Mr M bought at the time was managed and 
administered, and underwritten by different companies, so I make no comment on it.
Conclusion
As Ive indicated, Mr M has made extensive representations in support of his case. Ive 
considered them carefully, but am not persuaded that he was misled about the agreement 
he was entering into. Many of Mr Ms arguments are rather general assertions about the 
sales process but lack specific statements about what Mr M says happened or thinks should 
have happened. The documentation that Mr M signed and agreed to doesnt in any event 
support his case.         
  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman