DRN-1920674
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited have declined to cover a claim she
made on her private medical insurance policy in full.
Mrs H has brought her complaint through a representative, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her personally.
What happened
Mrs H had a private medical insurance policy with AXA. In September 2019 she was 
suffering from shortness of breath and chest pains, so she required some diagnostic tests. 
Mrs H contacted AXA to get authorisation to see a specialist at hospital A. AXA advised Mrs 
H that she would be covered for treatment with one of three listed specialists at hospital A 
and confirmed their names. It also explained that if Mrs H sees anyone other than those 
three consultants, or if she goes to another hospital thats not hospital A, she would need to 
call AXA first so they can check that they are covered. 
Mrs H was reminded she had exhausted her consultation allowance for the year, so she 
would need to pay for any consultation herself. But treatment would be covered. 
Mrs H said she attended the agreed hospital, but the doctor there then referred her to 
hospital B outpatient facility for an MRI scan.
AXA only covered 60% of the cost of this scan because hospital B isnt listed as a covered 
facility under their policy. Mrs H hadnt informed them she intended to attend that facility and 
she didnt receive authorisation for treatment there. 
Unhappy with this Mrs H complained and then referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint as she thought 
AXA made it clear to Mrs H she would need to contact them if she visited a different facility 
to check it would be covered. She also thought that AXA had acted in line with the policy 
terms when declining to cover the full cost of the claim on the basis that it wasnt a listed 
facility under a policy and they hadnt provided authorisation prior to the scan. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said she did attend hospital A as advised, but was referred to the 
different facility for the scan - so shed just followed the doctors instructions. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. 
Ive listened carefully to the calls that took place between AXA and Mrs H on 30 September. 
And I agree with our investigator that AXA hasnt acted unfairly by declining to cover the 
claim in full. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms explain why it is important for patients to ensure that the hospital they
use is part of their hospital list:  
If you have treatment at a hospital or day-patient unit thats not in the hospital list, we will
only pay 60% of the charges from that hospital or day-patient unit as long as they charge
up to the normal rates published and charged by the hospital or day-patient unit. You will
be responsible for paying the remaining charges.
Mrs Hs MRI scan was carried out at a facility that isnt on the hospital list, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to only pay 60% of Mrs Hs scan. 
I also think AXA made it clear to Mrs H in all the calls on the 30 September that they were 
only authorising treatment at hospital A and Mrs H would need to contact them if she 
attended anywhere else to check shed be covered.  Im satisfied Mrs H understood this 
advice because she repeated it back to the advisor on more than one occasion. 
I appreciate Mrs Hs point that she did attend hospital A initially. And it was the doctor there 
who referred her to hospital B for treatment - so she was just following their advice. 
However, AXA had made it clear that in those types of circumstance Mrs H would need to 
contact them to check if the new facility was listed on the policy, and if not, she would be 
required to pay some of the costs. 
Mrs H didnt make AXA aware she was attending a different hospital for the treatment. And 
she went ahead with the scan in the knowledge that AXA had advised that the cost of 
treatment at any facility other than hospital A wouldnt be 100% covered.  So it wouldnt be 
fair to ask AXA to cover the full cost of Mrs Hs MRI scan. 
The treatment didnt take place at a hospital on her policy list. So, in line with the policy 
terms and conditions AXA is responsible for paying 60% of the costs. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman