DRN-1730723
The complaint
Ms G arranged a motor insurance policy through an intermediary, BISL. She complains 
about the way BISL dealt with her when she called it to report an accident.
What happened
Ms G said she didnt think BISL gave her proper advice during the initial call she made to it. 
She says the advisor didnt make it clear enough that she had a choice about settling her 
non-fault claim through firm A, a credit hire firm, or using her insurer. She say he didnt tell 
her that if she chose to use firm A, she wouldnt have recourse to this service if something 
went wrong. Ms G later complained to BISL about the problems shed had in getting her car 
repaired properly and with car hire.
BISL looked into what had happened with firm A and explained to Ms G why some of the 
problems shed faced had arisen. It offered her £250 compensation for poor service, plus 
£60 to cover the extra calls shed had to make. As Ms G though that was insufficient, she 
complained to us. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Gs complaint. He said she was given the choice of 
using her insurance policy or firm As services and chose to use firm A. He thought the 
referral process was good enough, as Ms G was told firm A was a separate company  and 
she signed a separate agreement with it. Ms G said shed been led to believe that firm A 
would provide her with car hire only and there was no reference to anything else in the 
agreement she signed with it. She thought the offer of compensation from BISL had 
prejudiced her case, as she didnt have a chance to put her concerns to firm A.
The investigator issued a second view. He noted that Ms G had said she wasnt aware of 
what shed agreed to at the time as she was in a vulnerable state of mind. He said the 
referral call showed that BISL advised Ms G appropriately, but that Ms G was unhappy in 
hindsight about how firm A dealt had with the complaint. He said we couldnt investigate 
BISLs complaints handling, as that issue isnt a regulated activity. He also said we couldnt 
consider the actions of firm A, for the same reason. He said Ms G could contact firm A 
directly or through BISL to complain. Ms G repeated that the dangers of using firm A werent 
explained to her and said her right to complain to it wasnt respected by BISL.
Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We think that if a business offers a consumer the option of using credit hire services, it must 
make it clear that in doing so the consumer wont be claiming on their insurance policy  and 
that they can claim on the insurance policy if they wish. The business isnt required to set out 
all the pros and cons of making a choice. If a consumer later complains that they would have 
made a different choice, had they been given more information at the time, we must consider 
how likely that would be. 
In this case, Ms G was advised by BISL that she had the choice of using a credit hire firm to 
deal with car hire and repairs, or using her insurance policy. The advisor said she wouldnt 
have to pay the policy excess if she chose to use credit hire. Ms G says she was in a 
vulnerable state of mind at the time. But this part of the conversation took place around 30 
minutes into what was a relaxed and chatty call, during which Ms G seemed to be at ease.
The advisor didnt rush her through the process. And when he gave Ms G firm As address, 
she recognised it and seemed pleased. She said her partner had been referred to it after an 
accident and that firm A had been very helpful. 
In these circumstances, I think that even if the advisor had said shed have no recourse to 
this service if anything went wrong, its more likely than not that Ms G would still have 
chosen firm A. She had no reason to think it wouldnt provide good service  as previously  
and she knew it wouldnt require her to pay the policy excess. Unfortunately, as things went 
wrong, in hindsight its understandable that Ms G regretted not claiming through her policy.
BISL contacted firm A and considered what had gone wrong. It identified a system error on 
its own part that meant the wrong repairer was initially instructed. It accepted that this 
caused confusion and some upset for Ms G later on, as a second repairer had to carry out 
the work. Later there were issues with the repairs, which BISL arranged to be rectified. It 
also tried to explain to Ms G how the issues with hire arose with firm A. BISL offered her 
£250 for distress and inconvenience, plus £60 for the cost of calls, which I think was 
reasonable. 
Ms D doesnt think that sum covers the amount of inconvenience and poor service she faced 
as a result of the credit hire referral  and in her view, BISL has prevented her from 
complaining to firm A. I dont think thats the case. In my view, it remains open to Ms D to 
contact firm A directly, if she thinks its actions caused her problems that still need to be 
addressed, regardless of BISLs offer of compensation.
As I dont think BISL has acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Ms Gs complaint against it.     
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 
24 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman