DRN-2147227
The complaint
Mr L says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr L between 
August 2018 and March 2019. All the loans were repayable in six monthly instalments. This 
is a summary of Mr Ls lending history from Lending Stream. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 17/08/2018 24/08/2018 200
2 08/09/2018 21/09/2018 200
3 27/09/2018 12/12/2018 520
4 16/11/2018 12/12/2018 80
5 16/01/2019 19/01/2019 590
6 04/02/2019 27/02/2019 590
7 06/03/2019 04/10/2019 130
The adjudicator didnt find that Lending Stream had lent irresponsibly. Mr L disagreed saying 
correct checks would have shown he was not in a position to repay the loans. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. 
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it carried out for each loan and shared some of 
the results. It asked Mr L for details of his monthly income and expenditure. It checked the 
expenditure he gave against external data sources. It also carried out a credit check for each 
loan. I would add, by way of explanation for Mr L, that whilst Lending Stream completed 
credit checks at the time of each application the information it saw wont have been exactly 
the same as what Mr L could have seen on his credit file. It may only have seen part of the 
file, and some data may be missing, summarised or not up to date. And Lending Stream 
could only make its decisions based on the information it had available at the time from the 
credit reference agencies.
Overall, I think Lending Stream completed proportionate checks for loans 1 to 3. And I dont 
think there was anything in the information it gathered, that I have seen, that should have led 
it to make different lending decisions. 
So I dont think it was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr L.
Like our adjudicator, I think Lending Stream should have completed fuller financial reviews 
from loan 4 onwards. We twice asked Mr L, through his representative, for copies of his bank 
statements and credit file so we could look at what such reviews might have shown Lending 
Stream. But he didnt provide them. So I cant know what better checks would have shown 
Lending Stream. 
This means I cant fairly conclude it made the wrong lending decisions for loans 4 to 7.It follows I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman