DRN-3469521
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clear Score Technology Limited (Clear Score) wont delete some data it 
holds about him without him providing additional identification  something Mr R says hes 
unwilling to do.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case because I intended to come to a 
different outcome to our Investigator. I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond 
with any additional information they wanted me to consider before I came to my final 
decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
Mr R initially contacted Clear Score because he was unable to log into his account, and the
password resets werent being sent to his email inbox. It later transpired that there were two
different accounts in Mr Rs name, with his personal details, but they had different email
addresses associated with them. Mr R says that he wants both of the accounts deleted.
Clear Score deleted one of the accounts for Mr R  the one with the email address
associated with it that matched the email address Mr R was contacting it from. But it said it
wouldnt delete the other account without photographic ID from Mr R  the ID it requested
needed to be a passport or driving license. Mr R didnt want to provide either of these things
and so Clear Score said it had marked the open account as inactive which meant it couldnt
be accessed.
In order to settle this complaint, Mr R would like Clear Score to delete the data it holds about
him.
Clear Score responded to Mr Rs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It reiterated that it wouldnt
delete the other account that had been set up using a different email address before Mr R
had provided ID, so that it could be satisfied that the request had come from the genuine
individual. It confirmed that this is the security procedure it must follow when there is more
than one account in a persons name.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R too. But they didnt find that Clear Score had
done anything wrong. They said that they didnt think that Clear Scores request to get
identification before agreeing to delete the other account was unreasonable  and it had
done so to follow its security procedures.
Mr R didnt agree. He felt that Clear Score was trying to keep hold of his personal details for
the benefit of its own use. He said that Clear Score has also refused a subject access
request he made for the same reason. And that it wasnt fair that Clear Score wasnt
agreeing to delete his personal information.
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my current intention to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business, like Clear Score to change its policies and
procedures. But I can look to see if Mr R has been treated fairly in line with those
procedures.
Ive asked Clear Score to show me its internal guidance about what it would to do in
situations like the one Mr R is in. But despite numerous requests for this information, it hasnt
sent me anything. What this means is that I cant be satisfied that Clear Score has treated
Mr R the same as it would its other customers in the same or similar circumstances. And I
dont know if Clear Score has followed its own processes.
Overall, though, I dont find it unreasonable that Clear Score would need to check
photographic ID to satisfy itself that it was deleting the data for the correct individual. Clear
Score has a responsibility to all of its customers to ensure that it protects their accounts and
personal data. It is likely that it has policies and procedure in place to do this  although as I
mentioned previously, I havent seen these.
While I can understand Mr Rs frustration that it wont delete his personal data without more
information, I cant agree it would be fair of Clear Score to go against its procedures in this
situation.
Mr R has made reference to Clear Score refusing to delete his personal data. But I dont
agree Clear Score are refusing this, its just that it needs more information from Mr R before
it will proceed to delete the data.
Given that I cant be satisfied that Clear Score has followed its own processes, I currently
think it should pay Mr R £75. I havent seen anything that satisfies me that its requests for
information are in line with its process. However, if Clear Score can provide me with this
information by 4 May 2022 then I may reconsider the compensation award.
I dont though, find that the information Clear Score has requested before agreeing to delete
the account is unreasonable. And so, I wont be asking Clear Score to delete Mr Rs account
without him providing the photographic identification it has asked for. 
Clear Score didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr R responded to say that the provisional decision had upset him and caused him 
additional stress. He said that he was concerned that someone, possibly familiar with Clear 
Scores internal processes, were attempting to steal his identity and this is the reason why he 
doesnt want to provide it with any additional identification. 
He reiterated that he wants Clear Score to delete all the information it holds about him. And 
that he believes Clear Score are causing him financial harm  but he said he cant check this 
as Clear Score wont allow him to access his own information.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to uphold Mr Rs complaint for 
much of the same reason as I stated in my provisional decision. 
Im sorry to have read that my provisional decision had upset Mr R and caused him distress. 
This certainly wasnt my intention. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that someone at Clear Score, or someone with 
knowledge of Clear Scores internal processes has attempted to steal Mr Rs identity as hes 
suggested. It isnt uncommon practice for a business, like Clear Score, to request additional 
identification. Clear Score have previously communicated with this service to let us know 
that requesting this type of information is its normal process in these circumstances  and so 
I dont find it likely that the information is being requested as an attempt to steal Mr Rs 
identity. For the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision, I dont find that it 
was unreasonable of Clear Score to have requested further identification from Mr R before 
agreeing to delete the additional account in his name.
If Mr R doesnt want to provide this information to Clear Score then he doesnt have to. 
However, I wont be asking Clear Score to delete the account if he chooses not to provide 
this information.  Clear Score have already explained that it has marked Mr Rs account as 
inactive so it cant be accessed by anyone outside of Clear Score  so this will prevent 
anyone from accessing the account if this is something Mr R is concerned about.  
Given that Clear Score didnt respond to the provisional decision or provide me with 
information about its internal security processes, then Im still of the view that I cant be 
satisfied that Clear Score has followed its own internal processes.
Putting things right
Clear Score needs to pay Mr R £75 because I cant be satisfied that it has followed its own 
processes, so I cant be sure it has treated Mr R the same as it would other customers in 
similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I order Clear Score Technology 
Limited to put things right for Mr R by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman