DRN-3375650
The complaint
Mr V has complained about Arrow Global Limited defaulting his account.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account which was sold on to Arrow Global in 
September 2019.
Mr V says he didnt receive the letter where the original creditor confirmed theyd sold the 
debt to Arrow Global. Then when Arrow Global contacted him to chase the debt, he 
assumed it was a scam. He thought he was still paying the original creditor, and didnt notice 
theyd cancelled his direct debit. So he broadly ignored Arrow Globals contact.
In July 2020, Arrow Global managed to get through to Mr V on the phone. According to the 
call notes, they explained they hadnt been getting any payments, and that the account was 
at risk of defaulting. They sent him an income and expenditure form so he could work out 
what might be an affordable repayment for him, and then they sent him a copy of the credit 
agreement to show this was his debt.
Mr V continued not to make any payments. In December 2020, Arrow Global sent him a 
notice of termination. Mr V called them and reiterated hed thought it was a scam and hed 
thought he was still paying the original creditor. He explained he couldnt afford to pay the 
account off unless he borrowed a loan to make a full and final settlement, and could only 
afford limited monthly payments. That wasnt enough to clear the arrears or balance, so the 
account defaulted.
Mr V complained. Arrow Global felt theyd acted fairly, but offered £75 compensation for a 
delay in dealing with his complaint.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They pointed 
out that Arrow Global hadnt quite followed the default process to the letter, and that Mr V 
had offered to make a full and final settlement. They recommended the default be removed.
Arrow Global didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr V and Arrow Global a provisional decision on 15 February 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
I understand that Mr V doesnt recall getting the letter where the original creditor said theyd 
sold the debt to Arrow Global. But I can see the letter was sent to the address hed put on 
his account, which is the same address he gave us and the same one he gave Arrow Global 
on the phone. And Mr V did say he received their later letters.
In addition to those letters, Arrow Global also sent Mr V account statements, emails, texts, 
and they tried calling him too. So I think Arrow Global did more than enough to make sure 
Mr V knew that they owned the debt and that he was falling behind.
I cant see anything in Arrow Globals contact which should have given the impression that 
they were a scam. This seems to be something Mr V assumed on his own. And he could 
have always simply asked the original creditor, or asked Arrow Global to re-send the proof 
he owed them the money, or he could have looked them up online and seen they were a 
genuine company, and so on. But it looks like Mr V didnt speak to the original creditor about 
this until December 2020, by which point hed been missing his payments to Arrow Global 
for over a year.
So by December 2020, Mr V was over a year behind, and not due to any fault or error by 
Arrow Global. Hed been served notice that his account would default. And he was only able 
to offer limited monthly repayments that would not be enough to pay off the arrears hed built 
up. While he did talk about making a settlement offer, he said this would be by borrowing 
further money  which would just put him further into a cycle of debt. So it wouldnt really 
have been appropriate for Arrow Global to accept such a settlement offer anyway.
With all that in mind, it really seems reasonable that Arrow Global defaulted the account.
Our investigator pointed out that Arrow Global didnt quite follow the full process for a 
default. For example, they didnt put the reason for terminating the account on the notice of 
termination, nor send a separate arrears notice.
While I can see where our investigator is coming from, its difficult see what difference those 
things would have made. The reason for termination was clear  Mr V was more than a year 
behind on his payments. And his arrears were set out clearly in Arrow Globals regular 
statements, while their other correspondence also made it clear he was behind. Further, he 
discussed his account with Arrow Global back in July 2020 and was told about the risk of 
default, but continued not to make payments. By his own admission, Mr V broadly ignored 
Arrow Globals contact for a long time. And Mr V didnt deal with the debt until he spoke to 
the original creditor in December 2020, which was too late to stop it defaulting. So I cant see 
that an arrears notice or a clearer termination notice would have realistically changed things. 
Ultimately, Mr V was too far in arrears to avoid a default.
Indeed, I think Arrow Global should have really defaulted Mr Vs account earlier than they 
did. By April 2020, Mr V had fallen six months behind on his payments and had not engaged 
with Arrow Global or made any arrangements to pay off his arrears. And in that sort of 
situation, I would expect a default to be registered without much delay.
By backdating the default, it may make Mr Vs situation a bit easier now, as the default will 
be less recent on his credit file, which might look better to potential lenders. It also means 
the default will fall off his file more quickly and wont be on there for as long.
Lastly, Ive considered Arrow Globals delay in responding to Mr Vs complaint. And I think 
the £75 compensation theyve offered is fair.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
15 March 2022. Arrow Global accepted the provisional decision, and Mr V didnt add 
anything further.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Arrow Global Limited to:
Backdate the default to April 2020; and-
Pay Mr V the £75 compensation they offered, if theyve not done so already.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Vs complaint in part, and direct Arrow Global Limited to do what I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman