DRN-2583160
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain that Nationwide Building Society wont agree to remove Mr M from 
their joint mortgage, allowing it to continue in Ms Js sole name.  
What happened
Ms J and Mr M took out a joint mortgage with Nationwide in 2008. The mortgage is on a 
capital repayment basis and repayable over a term of 21 years. Mr M left the property 
around 2011 and Ms J has said she has been repaying the mortgage since that time.
In 2020 Ms J applied for the mortgage to be moved into her sole name. This was after she 
and Mr M agreed on this course of action. Nationwide declined the application. It said it 
didnt think, based on the information available to it, that the mortgage was affordable to 
Ms J, according to its affordability criteria. It said it had observed credits into her current 
account, in addition to her salary, which it thought indicated she was unable to support her 
outstanding debts based on her salary alone. It also noted outstanding debts with other 
lenders, which Ms J was repaying via a payment plan, as part of the reason for its decision.
Ms J and Mr M then brought their complaint to our service. Ms J explained that the credits to 
her account Nationwide had mentioned were from her parents, to pay her back when she did 
their shopping for them. And she was upset that Nationwide had just made an assumption 
about this without discussing it with her. She also pointed out that shed been maintaining 
the mortgage payments herself for nine years, and she had an agreement in place with all of 
her creditors in relation to her other debts.
One of our investigators considered things and didnt think Nationwide had acted fairly. She 
said that the rules set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), allowed 
Nationwide to set aside the need for an affordability assessment in certain circumstances, if 
the change being requested to the mortgage was in the customers best interest. And she 
felt that was the case here. So, she recommended that Nationwide allow the change to the 
mortgage as requested.
Nationwide did not agree with the investigators opinion. It said it still had to lend responsibly 
and didnt agree its decision here was incorrect as it felt the mortgage was not affordable to 
Ms J. As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old 
rules but not under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this.
One such rule, MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no 
additional borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the 
mortgage that affect its affordability.
In response to the investigators opinion, Nationwide has talked about this rule but said that 
removing a borrower was a change to the terms material to affordability, so it still felt it was 
correct to have carried out an affordability assessment here. And in terms of this rule, I dont 
think what it has said is unreasonable.
But our investigator didnt say they felt the affordability assessment should be waived under 
MCOB 11.6.3. Rather they felt it could be waived under the transitional arrangements 
introduced by the FCA as part of the MMR. 
The transitional arrangements, particularly MCOB 11.7.1, say that a lender need not carry 
out an affordability assessment, if:
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing  except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance;
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests.
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment.  If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would be in the customers best interests. But the 
lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best interests.
Here Ms J and Mr M took out their existing mortgage in 2008  before 26 April 2014. They 
were not requesting any additional borrowing and Ive seen nothing to suggest they had 
borrowed more since 26 April 2014. So, with that in mind, if the proposed transaction  
moving the mortgage into Ms Js sole name  was in Ms J and Mr Ms best interests, I agree 
with the investigator that Nationwide could choose not to carry out an affordability 
assessment and proceed. 
I do think its reasonable that Nationwide would need to think carefully about whether 
removing Mr M was in Ms J and Mr Ms best interests. Nationwide doesnt agree that the 
change is in their best interests because it would leave the sole burden for repaying the 
mortgage on Ms J. And if she is unable to do so, which Nationwide thinks is likely based on 
its opinion of the information it has about her circumstances, the risk to her is greater  as 
she wouldnt be in a position to obtain assistance from Mr M as the joint borrower. So, its 
concerns about whether the change is in Ms Js best interests still centre largely around 
affordability.While the affordability of the ongoing mortgage is important to the borrowers interests, it isnt 
the only determining factor. Ms J and Mr M have said that Mr M left the property in 2011 and 
they are separated. This mortgage though continues to bind their financial affairs together. I 
think its reasonable, after all this time, that theyd want to end this financial association  so 
that they can move on from it. 
And the parties all seem to agree and acknowledge that Ms J has been paying the mortgage 
herself for nine years, without issue. So, she has in effect assumed the sole burden for doing 
so in that time without assistance from Mr M. 
Nationwide has said removing Mr M will mean the possibility of him contributing if Ms J falls 
into difficulties will also be removed. But there is no indication that Mr M has contributed to 
the mortgage or that he would do so moving forward. And Ms J and Mr M are anyway jointly 
and severally liable for the debt. So, I dont agree that this presents a greater risk to Ms J. 
The risk is largely as it always was if she is unable to make repayments. And it certainly 
doesnt create a greater risk to Mr M, who would no longer be liable for the balance. The 
only potential increase in risk that I see is to Nationwide, as its options for recovering the 
sum due would be lessened with only one named party. But I dont think that means that the 
change is not in Ms J or Mr Ms best interests. And I dont think this change is unfair to 
Nationwide as the loan it has provided is still secured against the property. And it can still 
enforce its security should the need arise.
Nationwide cited concerns about some incomings to Ms Js current account representing 
assistance with her outgoings. But Ms J has provided a perfectly reasonable explanation in 
relation to this as Ive mentioned. And while Nationwide has also mentioned she has 
repayment arrangements in place with other creditors, Ms J has been honest about this. And 
I understand her repayment arrangements have been maintained with her creditors. 
Nationwide has mentioned the information reported with credit reference agencies from one 
of Ms Js creditors suggests the situation, and level of borrowing, is worsening. But 
information weve been provided, from the relevant creditor, confirms this isnt the case and 
that the repayment arrangement has been maintained as agreed. I also understand Ms J 
has maintained the mortgage repayments as required under the mortgage agreement. 
So, taking everything into account I dont think Nationwide has treated Ms J and Mr M fairly 
by declining to transfer the mortgage into Ms Js sole name. I think allowing this change 
would be in Ms J and Mr Ms best interests. I think the transitional arrangements allowed 
Nationwide to proceed with the change, without being constrained by the new affordability 
rules and I think it wouldve been fair of it to do so. So, to put matters right I think Nationwide 
should grant the application now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society 
to remove Mr M from the mortgage account as he and Ms J have requested.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman