DRN-3216108
The complaint
Miss D says TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss D took out a 60-month guarantor loan for £10,000 on 7 March 2017. The monthly 
repayment was £302.25 and the total repayable was £18,135.
Miss D says the loan was not affordable for her and TFS took into account a bonus that 
wasnt guaranteed.
Our investigator said Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. She thought TFSs checks were 
proportionate but that it did not make a fair lending decision based on what it saw.
TFS disagreed saying its loan helped Miss D reduce her monthly expenditure and the 
decision was fair.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and guidance in place at the time said that the lender needed to check that Miss D 
could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Miss D being able 
to meet her repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow 
further.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss D. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss D, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ds loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the
loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Miss D before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of her income and checked this against a recent payslip, her monthly housing and living 
costs and her existing credit commitments. It checked her credit file to understand her credit 
history and commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt 
consolidation. From these checks combined TFS concluded Miss D would have around 
£239.44 of monthly disposable income, after making the repayment, and so the loan was 
affordable.
Im not wholly persuaded the checks TFS carried out were proportionate given the loan 
value and the fact it needed to be sure Miss D would be able to sustainably repay the loan 
for a five-year period. It didnt verify her declared expenses in any way. I think it ought to 
have taken steps to make sure it had a full understanding of her actual finances
before lending. But I wont comment further on this as even based on the information it
gathered I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
TFS knew from the credit check that Miss D had defaulted on a credit card with a balance of 
£2,328 in September 2016 and that she was in arrears on another five accounts. Her credit 
cards were very close to their limits and she was using an overdraft facility on two current 
accounts. Miss D explained that she was in this position as she had taken a drop in salary 
recently. She now wanted to consolidate some her debts to make her monthly outgoings 
more affordable. 
But from what I can see Miss D was settling a bank credit card, a second credit card, a bank 
loan and a catalogue account. She confirmed to TFS she made the minimum payment on 
her cards (TFS knew in reality she wasnt even managing to do that) so that would mean she 
was spending (and so would save) around £220 a month on these debts. So I cant see how 
TFS fairly concluded there wasnt a risk its loan, with a £302.25 monthly repayment, would 
cause financial harm. Miss Ds credit file showed she was already having problems 
managing her money and was failing to meet her credit commitments with lower monthly 
repayments. I think TFS ought to have realised it was unlikely the loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Miss D. And that if she had the level of disposable income it calculated its 
unlikely she would have so many accounts in arrears.
I have carefully considered the points TFS raised in response to the investigators 
assessment but for the reasons set out above they do not change my conclusion. I agree adverse information on a credit check isnt always a reason to decline a loan, and I have 
explained why I think it should have been here. 
It follows I think TFS was wrong to lend to Miss D.
I havent found evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss D to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to her. So she has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Miss D made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ds loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Ds loan account results in there being a capital balance 
outstanding TFS must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss D.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Miss D a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ds complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman