DRN-2523629
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the increase in premium he and Mr E paid for their home 
insurance policy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited since 2017. 
What happened
Mr W and Mr E bought a home insurance policy with Admiral in January 2017, which they 
renewed each year. In June 2020, Mr W noticed from checking his bank account that he had 
been paying more over the past couple of years for his insurance. He went online and 
obtained a quote for home insurance with Admiral which was cheaper than what he was 
paying. So he contacted Admiral. 
Admiral said it couldnt match the online price Mr W had obtained. This was in part because 
it was mid-term, and also because it didnt include claims Mr W and Mr E had made under 
the policy. 
Admiral said it could offer a renewal discount instead. But if Mr W didnt want to proceed, 
Admiral would waive its cancellation fee if Mr W and Mr E decided to cancel their policy. 
Admiral said it had correctly priced the premium for their policy.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He felt Admiral had taken 
advantage of their loyalty over the years. He believes Admiral has overcharged them for 
insurance since January 2018. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted reasonably. 
Mr W didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, it isnt our role to tell a business how it should operate. This 
includes telling a business what it should charge its customers for insurance products. But I 
can look at whether Admiral treated Mr W and Mr E fairly during the time they held their 
home insurance policy with it.
We dont think a business has necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance 
premium at renewal. There are often risk-related reasons associated with the various 
insurers of the policy for doing so. Industry increases over time can also play a part. 
Admiral said two claims were made under the policy for incidents that occurred in December 
2018. Although it rejected one of the claims, Admiral still took the claim into account when 
calculating the premium for January 2019 as there were claim related costs. 
Claims on policies do affect the renewal price in subsequent years, so they can have an 
effect on what Mr W and Mr E paid for their policy.
An insurers pricing structure is commercially sensitive and so it cannot be shared with 
customers. However, we can ask a business to provide its pricing calculations to us so that 
we can decide if it has treated a customer fairly. Im satisfied from the information Admiral 
provided that it has treated Mr W and Mr E fairly and as it would any other customer in the 
same circumstances. 
Customers can benefit from a new customer discount when they shop around. The 
insurance market is highly competitive and the discounts available can vary widely. This is 
why we can see such differences in price from different insurers while looking for the same 
level of cover on comparison websites. Businesses offer this discount with a view to 
recovering the initial discount over the years through customer retention. This is something a 
business can also offer to existing customers at their own discretion. We dont think a 
business has acted unfairly in operating this way.
In the renewal invite it sent in December 2019, Admiral said that if Mr W and Mr E had 
renewed with them before, they may be able to get insurance cover for a better price if they 
shop around. Mr W said they didnt shop around. The price Mr W obtained in June 2020 
wasnt one Admiral could match for two reasons: the rates were different to the renewal date 
of their policy and the quote didnt include their claims history. So I think Admirals offer to 
apply a renewal discount after the renewal had passed  and to allow Mr W and Mr E to 
cancel the policy without paying a cancellation fee  was reasonable. 
I understand Mr W will be disappointed. But from what Ive seen, I dont think Admiral has 
overcharged them for the premium Mr W and Mr E paid for their insurance policy. So Im not 
asking Admiral to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman