DRN-3542328
The complaint
Mr N complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) turned down his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr N holds income protection cover, the aim of which is to pay a benefit if he cant work 
because of illness of injury. The policy has a four-week waiting period.
In October 2021, Mr N made a claim as hed stopped work in September 2021 because of a 
chronic cough. LV turned down the claim. Whilst it accepted that Mr N had been signed off 
work by his GP, it didnt think Mr N had shown that his symptoms prevented him from 
working. Unhappy with this, Mr N brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought there wasnt enough 
evidence to show why Mr Ns cough prevented him from working, and so he thought LVs 
decision to turn down the claim had been reasonable. 
Mr N didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says it pays benefit if:
youre too unwell to carry out the main tasks of your occupationBy main tasks we mean 
the things which cant reasonably be left out of your role, or changed by you or your 
employer.
Mr Ns GP confirmed that his symptoms were first experienced in January 2021, but the 
cause hadnt been identified and Mr N hadnt responded to treatments. The GP said the 
severity of Mr Ns coughing interrupted him working. 
Mr Ns GP records show that he had several consultations with his GP between January 
2021 and September 2021 (when he stopped work). Mr N was referred to a respiratory 
specialist in August 2021 as hed had eight months of severe coughing episodes, which 
happened around three to four times a day. In mid-September 2021, it was noted that Mr N 
was able to exercise in the gym without any problems. It was also later noted in the GP 
records that Mr Ns coughing bouts occurred at roughly the same time each day. In October 
2021, the GP asked a respiratory specialist if they could see Mr N sooner than March 2022, 
and described the treatment that Mr N had been given, but which hadnt worked. A chest x-
ray was done, which was clear. 
Mr Ns GP provided more information after LV had turned down the claim. The GP said that 
Mr N had advised that his symptoms had greatly worsened since returning from holiday in 
September 2021, and he had bouts of coughing which could last for one to one and a half 
hours. The GP said this happened three to four times a day.
LV has raised the valid point that theres nothing in Mr Ns medical records to suggest that 
his symptoms worsened before he stopped work. I appreciate Mr N later advised his GP 
(and this service) that his symptoms worsened after he returned from holiday in September 
2021. However, his GP records from the time dont support this. Instead, the information in 
Mr Ns GP records is that hed experienced severe coughing bouts for three to four times a 
day for several months (which is how Mr N described his symptoms after stopping work), 
with no mention of the duration of those coughing bouts. Despite those symptoms, Mr N was 
able to continue working from January 2021 to September 2021. 
LVs company medical officer (CMO) questioned why Mr Ns symptoms prevent him from 
working, given that he has a self-employed role which would allow him to take a break when 
experiencing a coughing bout. The CMO also thought it was of interest that Mr Ns 
symptoms didnt prevent him from exercising in the gym. The CMO was of the view that if 
Mr Ns respiratory investigations showed abnormalities, then LV should reconsider the 
matter, but they didnt think Mr N had shown that his symptoms prevented him from working. 
On balance, I think it was reasonable for LV to turn down the claim. Mr N was able to work 
with his symptoms for several months, as well as exercise in the gym. The 
contemporaneous medical evidence doesnt show that Mr Ns symptoms became worse 
before he stopped work. Mr N is self-employed and whilst I appreciate he has a manual role, 
it doesnt seem unreasonable for LV to say that Mr N could take a break during a bout of 
coughing, particularly since he knows when those bouts are likely to take place. Taking all of 
this into account, I dont think theres sufficient objective evidence to show that Mr Ns 
symptoms prevented him from working from September 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman