DRN-3852169
The complaint
Mrs R complained, through a claims management company (CMC), that The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society (Royal London) provided unsuitable investment advice in 1999 
when it recommended Mrs R to invest into a Platinum Bond Plus. 
To put things right, Mrs R wants more compensation than Royal London offered to pay.  
The investment advice was provided via a financial business trading under a different name. 
But, to keep things simpler, as Royal London is responsible for dealing with the complaint, 
I will refer to it as the financial business that provided the advice and sold the investment 
complained about. 
What happened
In November 1999, Mrs R took financial advice from Royal London when she acquired a 
lump sum on taking early retirement. She was advised to invest £37,000 into a Platinum 
Bond Plus - a with-profits bond  which she did. 
This investment was surrendered in April 2006 for £32,818.45. Mrs R received £8,686.86 
in income payments throughout the duration of the policy.
Mrs R felt the bond was mis-sold and she was mainly unhappy because she believes:
her attitude to risk was not fully assessed
the amount of her free assets invested was inappropriate
her future needs and objectives were not considered, and
she was sold an investment with limited early access which was not appropriate for 
her circumstances 
Mrs Rs representative said she should have been advised to place her funds in fixed rate 
bonds which were paying over 7% at the time and would have provided far greater access 
with minimal (if any) penalty. 
Royal London upheld Mrs Rs complaint in part. It said that although it was satisfied that the 
type of investment sold to Mrs R was suitable, the sum she was advised to invest was too 
high a proportion of her capital and half the sum she invested should have remained on 
deposit. So Royal London worked out redress according to a formula intended to put Mrs R 
into the position she would have been had she just invested £18,5000 in the Platinum Bond 
Plus and left the other £18,500 on deposit. 
Mrs R didnt feel this went far enough to put things right  she feels redress should be 
based on the full amount of her investment. So she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding. In brief 
summary, he said Royal Londons fact find showed that, based on Mrs Rs circumstances 
and objectives at the time, the bond wasnt unsuitable as it met her needs for income and 
growth without too much risk to capital. As withdrawals could have been accessed first, 
before it became necessary to surrender the whole bond, our investigator didnt feel he 
could fairly say the market value adjustment (MVA) that was applied in line with the product 
terms and conditions (which reduced the value of the bond on surrender) was unfair. And 
as he thought it more than likely Mrs R would have invested some of her available funds 
(as opposed to leaving them on deposit), he felt Royal Londons approach to redress was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator and said that key issues had been overlooked. Her 
representative reiterated the following main points, which I have summarised as follows:
the product was not suitable for Mrs Rs needs as she was advised to invest a 
significant amount of her available money into the Platinum Bond Plus when she 
was still adjusting to life changing circumstances and reliant upon disability benefits 
and a small pension, which left her with little disposable income. 
Even an £18,500 investment would still have represented an unsuitably high 
percentage of Mrs Rs free assets in 1999 considering she still had an outstanding 
mortgage and she faced the likelihood of increased costs and expenses plus outlay 
on essential home improvements to suit her changed circumstances.
Mrs R had around £1,000 in other savings and its likely she held a total of £42,000 
at the time she met with the adviser.
Given that this was a new situation for Mrs R it was impossible to know or assess 
what her future costs and expenses would be.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Royal London has consented to us looking into Mrs Rs complaint about what happened in 
1999 when it sold the investments, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs R doesnt feel the investigator addressed the complaint issues fully. Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive looked carefully at what I know about Mrs Rs overall financial situation at the time. 
I think its reasonable for me to rely substantially on the documentation completed at the time 
to give me an insight into Mrs Rs circumstances and financial situation and an 
understanding of her wishes and intentions when she met with the adviser in 1999. 
This is what was recorded about Mrs Rs circumstances and financial situation when she 
met with the adviser:
Mrs R owned her own home subject to mortgage which cost her £352 per month and 
had an outstanding balance owing of around £39,000 with 16 years still to run. 
She had no dependants. 
Her income comprised pension and invalidity benefit of around £795 per month. A breakdown of her monthly expenditure showed Mrs R was managing within her 
means but she had just £18 disposable income left after paying all her monthly 
outgoings. 
She told the adviser the amount of savings she held was £41,000 plus a further 
amount (Mrs Rs representative says this was £1,000) in NAS SAVINGS. 
Royal London now says that Mrs R should only have been advised to invest £18,500 in the 
Platinum Bond Plus in order to leave her with ready access to the rest of her capital so she 
could draw upon this if needed. Mrs R on the other hand feels that she shouldnt have been 
advised to invest any amount into the Platinum Bond Plus. 
  
Mrs R had a potential investment pot of at least £41,000 (or £42,000 including the NAS 
Savings). I accept that some of Mrs Rs future spending needs were uncertain and hard to 
quantify. But investing £18,500  approximately 45% of her lump sum/savings  would still 
have left her with ample spare capital available to meet a range of potential spending 
requirements. 
Paying off her mortgage doesnt seem to have been priority for Mrs R. When discussing her 
mortgage, the adviser asked Mrs R about any Home needs or objectives and, offered 
Yes/No options, Mrs R indicated No. 
Bearing in mind that her mortgage monthly repayments were affordable out of income and 
the likelihood that Mrs R might need to use her capital for some of the other purposes 
outlined by her representative, it seems reasonable to me that Mrs R wouldnt have wanted 
to use her lump sum to clear her mortgage. Doing this would have left her with just a few 
thousand pounds, which risked being insufficient to cover her anticipated capital spending 
needs and it didnt give enough of a financial cushion to fall back on in case of emergencies. 
I think this would have been an important consideration as Mrs R had no means of rebuilding 
savings out of income.
So I think Mrs R was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest £18,500, 
given that her day to day needs were being met out of income and she was using her lump 
sum to fund this investment. 
Mrs R needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended 
investment reflected her attitude to risk. 
The fact find records, under Attitude to risk, given the options of Cautious, Balanced and 
Adventurous, the adviser has ticked Balanced. So Im satisfied that risk would have been 
discussed. Theres nothing to show that Mrs R raised objection at the time, which Id have 
expected her to have done if she disagreed with the advisers assessment of her attitude to 
risk.
Its recorded that the adviser also gave Mrs R a Key Features Document and an 
Illustration. These documents explained the nature of the investment recommended, 
associated risks and charges and outlined possible returns based on standard growth 
rates used throughout the industry.
Mrs R told the adviser she wanted to invest money held in Building society for growth and 
income. And she appears to have selected options designed to identify her investment 
needs and objectives as follows:
You need a flexible with profits contract providing a regular income and the potential for 
capital growth, andMaximise the income you receive from your capital. 
The Platinum Bond Plus offered Mrs R investment growth over the medium term 
(described as five years or preferably longer) and Mrs R was free to cash in the bond at 
any time or keep it for as long as she wanted. The bond allowed her to take a regular 
income if she wished. It looks like this was something Mrs R discussed with the adviser  
he explained that she had the option of taking up to 5% of the bond value as income and 
Mrs R told the adviser she only wanted to take 4% to help cover costs and help growth 
So, as far as I can see, Mrs R was prepared to invest for the medium term and for at least 
five years. This is borne out by the fact that in the event she kept the bond more than 
6 years. 
The funds were invested in a wide range of stock exchange and other investments.
Looking at the available information, I think Mrs R wouldve had a reasonable 
understanding of the basic principle that risk was commensurate with growth potential and, 
in choosing to invest, she needed to balance her investment objectives against the risk she 
felt comfortable taking with her money. 
Even though things didnt work out in the way Mrs R was hoping when she made this 
investment, the way the investment performed is outside the scope of this complaint  I am 
looking at whether this was a suitable investment when it was recommended to Mrs R. 
Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, overall, 
having considered everything, I am persuaded that Mrs R was not exposed to more risk 
than she wanted to take. 
I think that Mrs R understood and accepted the risk of the investment that Royal London 
advised her to invest in. The Platinum Bond Plus provided the potential for capital growth 
she was looking for. It also gave her all the income she said she wanted at the time  plus 
the option of taking some additional income if she so wished in future. Her circumstances 
and financial situation meant she was likely looking at this capital providing for her financial 
needs for the long term so I think she would have expected to keep this investment running 
for at least five years and likely longer, which matched the product recommendation. Given 
the spread of investments within the Platinum Bond Plus, I think it's fair to say the diversity of 
individual funds mitigated investment risk whilst offering Mrs R the chance to grow her 
money as she hoped to do. 
I appreciate that Mrs R felt the MVA made the bond unsuitable for her  but I dont agree. 
This feature was clearly explained in the product literature along with clear warnings that the 
actual bond value depended on a number of factors and there was a risk that the MVA could 
mean getting back less than had been paid into the bond if it was held for fewer than 
10 years. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs R didnt intend to keep the bond for the long term when 
she invested in it or that she couldnt have known, or didnt understand, that cashing in the 
bond before ten years were up could mean the MVA  being applied on surrender. When 
Mrs R chose to encash the bond early, I find the MVA was applied fairly, after a prolonged 
or deep fall in Stockmarket values triggered the MVA clause, in line with the bond terms and 
conditions. Mrs R could have avoided the MVA if she had kept the bond for another three 
years or so before surrendering it and just taken up to 5% income instead. All in all, whilst the impact of the MVA was unfortunate, this isnt enough for me to say that the Platinum 
Bond Plus was unsuitable for Mrs R so it doesnt affect my decision. 
For all the reasons I have set out more fully above, I havent seen enough to make me think 
that the Platinum Bond Plus was too risky for Mrs R or otherwise unsuitable. I find it met 
Mrs Rs identified needs and investment objectives and would have been a suitable 
investment for £18,500 of her capital. Investing this amount would still have left Mrs R with 
ample readily accessible funds to provide for emergency costs arising or unplanned 
spending needs. 
This leads me to conclude that the offer made by Royal London to put Mrs R in the position 
she would have been in had she only invested £18,500 in the bond and taken no risk with 
the remainder of her investment pot was fair and reasonable. 
Royal London used the fixed rate bond index to provide a reasonable indication of what sort 
of return Mrs R might have achieved when she wasnt looking to take any risk with her 
money. This reflects what the CMC said would be a fair benchmark and the sort of 
investment return Mrs R could have obtained with little risk to her capital. So the way Royal 
London calculated redress seems fair to me and was a reasonable approach to take in order 
to put Mrs R in the position she would broadly be in now had she only invested £18,500 in 
the Platinum Bond Plus.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs R felt a key issue hadnt been given sufficient weight so far, namely the fact that the 
product was set to pay an immediate income even though she was being charged a 4% 
initial charge and any bonuses wouldnt be declared for at least a year. The CMC put it this 
way: Effectively she was being advised to take out this supposed income immediately but 
it was in fact her own capital  less a 4% set-up charge. 
The CMC also reiterated the point that on Royal Londons advice Mrs R had locked away 
her capital in this investment before she had a proper chance to assess her future financial 
needs. 
Royal London said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs R feels strongly about her complaint and she holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including the comments made in response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs R understood that taking income from the bond impacted on the potential for capital 
growth. This was something she specifically discussed with the adviser. Whilst she was 
aware she could elect to take up to 5% income, she wanted to take less at present to help 
cover costs and help growth.
Mrs R elected to take a monthly income of £123.33 from the bond. The annual bonus she 
was accruing was calculated on a daily basis. 
On reaching the first anniversary of the bond, she had withdrawn a total of £1,479.96 and 
she received an annual bonus plus an anniversary bonus totalling £2,482.37. So even if Mrs R hadnt properly understood the full extent of all the consequences of taking 
money out of the bond during the first year, I dont consider this caused her to lose out to the 
extent that would make it fair for me to uphold this complaint. She had the benefit of the 
income as well as the chance to grow the balance invested in the bond and at the end of the 
first year, she still received a return on her investment.  
When she took out the bond she told the adviser that she might put other money in the Post 
Office into an ISA the following year. So it doesnt look like she had any big spending plans 
in mind at that stage. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay the 
offer it made to settle Mrs Rs complaint. 
My final decision
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited previously made a fair offer to settle 
Mrs Rs complaint. So my decision is that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited should pay this offer to Mrs R, if it has not already done so. If the offer is paid 
already, I do not require The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to take any 
further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman