DRN-3360738
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account and havent explained why. Hes also 
unhappy about the service he was provided. 
What happened
Mr C had a Metal account with Revolut. This account came with additional benefits such as 
trading functions, as well as offering a premium level of customer service, for which Mr C 
had to pay a subscription fee each month. 
In May 2020, Revolut blocked Mr Cs account, while it carried out a review. Mr C complained 
and asked Revolut several times when it would unblock his account. Revolut said that it 
couldnt give him a timeframe as to when the review would be completed and asked Mr C to 
provide some information about his account. The account was blocked for 22 days. 
Following completion of its review, Revolut unblocked Mr Cs account and he was able to 
use it normally. Revolut apologised to Mr C for any inconvenience the block had caused him 
and refunded him two months of subscription fees. Mr C wasnt happy with this response. He 
said he didnt get the premium service hed paid for and hed had to chase Revolut to try and 
find out what was happening with his account. But Revolut wouldnt give him much 
information. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Before it was investigated Revolut offered Mr C 
£50 for the inconvenience the review had caused, which was declined. 
An investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint. She explained Revolut had certain legal and 
regulatory requirements they had to follow, which can lead to accounts being restricted. So, 
she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed. He wants Revolut to fully refund his metal subscription fee and increase its 
offer of compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Revolut has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime. To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within them.  
Having looked at all the evidence, including the information Revolut relied on to block Mr Cs 
account, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with these obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Cs account. It was also entitled to do so under the account terms 
and conditions. I can see that in blocking the account Revolut were following an internal 
process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. 
This was a legitimate exercise. And  it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that since I dont believe Revolut treated Mr C unfairly in taking the actions 
it did.
I can appreciate not being able to access his account for just over three weeks wouldve 
caused Mr C worry and concern. And I can see from looking at Revoluts in app chat with 
Mr C, that he sent Revolut several emails trying to find out what was going on and when he 
would be able to access his account. But Revolut doesnt disclose to its customers what 
triggers a review of their accounts. And its not obliged to provide Mr C with this information, 
as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr C this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Mr C has said that due to the block and poor service he says he received he hasnt had the 
benefits of the metal subscription. And he wants the fees refunded. Whilst I can appreciate 
Mr C feels aggrieved, I can see that Mr C was able to continue to use his account once the 
block had been removed. And that Revolut has refunded him two months worth of fees. Ive 
thought carefully about whether I think this is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. And I think it is. So, Im not persuaded further compensation would be 
reasonable in this case.
In summary, based on the circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence Ive received 
from both parties, Im satisfied Revoluts actions are fair. So, it follows that I wont be asking 
Revolut to do anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman