DRN-2909864
The complaint
  This complaint is about a Chelsea Building Society-branded mortgage Mrs K held until 
recently with Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Shes unhappy that Clydesdale redeemed her mortgage in full when she wanted to leave it 
open with a small balance.
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision earlier this month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (rounding figures where applicable) 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
In April 2020, Mrs K spoke to Clydesdale on the phone about paying down the mortgage; 
she was told she could do that now that her interest product had ended. Mrs K explained she 
was transferring funds from abroad and asked if she could leave a small balance on the 
account. She was told she could, and a redemption statement was sent out. 
Mrs K arranged three payments to the mortgage account; collectively they added up to 
around £100 less that the redemption balance, but Clydesdale processed a full redemption, 
closed her account and released its charge on her property. A few weeks later, Clydesdale 
posted Mrs K title deeds to her home address.
Our investigator thought Clydesdale should refund the £50 deeds discharge fee and pay her 
£100 for her time and trouble. Clydesdale agreed to do this, but Mrs K asked for her case to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. She says shes tried unsuccessfully to obtain a replacement 
mortgage.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator; I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
As a starting point, if we conclude that a business has done something (or failed to do 
something) thats caused detriment to its customer, well aim wherever possible to order the 
business to take steps to restore the consumer to their previous position. Assuming Mrs K is 
agreeable, thats what should happen here, which will require Clydesdale to take the 
following steps: 
re-open Mrs Ks mortgage account with the balance that was outstanding after she made 
the three payments; 
execute a fresh legal charge (at its own expense) to secure the residual balance; 
arrange (at its own expense) for any title deed documents it sent out to Mrs K to be 
returned to it for safe storage until such time as Mrs K chooses to repay the mortgage of 
her own volition; and
refund the £50 discharge fee; and
pay Mrs K £300, a figure I consider better compensates Mrs K for her time, trouble and 
upset.
Its possible that, given the position is what it now is, Mrs K might prefer not to go back the 
position she was in before her mortgage was closed and the legal charge released. If that is 
the case  and I ask Mrs K to indicate her preference when replying to this provisional 
decision  Clydesdale should do the following instead:
refund the £50 discharge fee; and
pay Mrs K £300.
Both parties have accepted the provisional decision; Mrs K has told us she doesnt need her 
mortgage re-opened. She did correct me by saying her title documents were at Land 
Registry. It doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, but Im sorry for the mistake.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no reason to depart from my provisional decision, so I dont.  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
.
refund the £50 discharge fee; and
pay Mrs K £300.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman