DRN-1866964
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has refused to cover the 
cost of a gene test on his health insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M is under investigation for a metabolic disorder as he is suffering from exercise
intolerance and myalgia. His doctor has advised him to undertake a muscle biopsy or gene 
test. 
Cigna has said it wont cover the gene test because that procedure is excluded under the 
policy. But it has said it will cover the cost of a muscle biopsy. 
Mr M has explained hed like the gene test because the muscle biopsy is a much more 
intrusive procedure. 
Mr M made a complaint to Cigna but it maintained the gene test was excluded. But the 
muscle biopsy would be covered. Unhappy with this response Mr complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think the policy terms covered 
Mr Ms gene test so she felt Cigna had acted fairly. And although she knew it wasnt Mr Ms 
preference, she acknowledged he was still able to have his symptoms investigated through 
the muscle biopsy. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. So I need to make a
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Cigna has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy state preventative care isnt covered. Preventive 
care is a defined term in the policy:
a procedure, measure, substance, or programme designed to screen for and/or
prevent an illness, injury, disease or its symptoms from occurring, re-occurring or from
becoming more severe. This includes but is not limited to genetic screening or tests, 
Mr M has said he accepts 'genetic screening' is excluded from cover. But he said there is a 
difference between that and genetic testing. And he believes genetic testing shouldnt be 
excluded. Ive taken into account his additional comments on this, but Im satisfied that the 
terms are clear in explaining that both genetic screening and testing arent covered.  
Ive given careful thought to Mr Ms concerns about the use of the heading preventative 
treatment and how this doesnt apply to his circumstances because he was already 
presenting symptoms. I agree that preventive suggests it is before symptoms occur. But the 
actual policy definition of preventative also includes circumstances where symptoms may 
reoccur or become more severe  which suggest they are already present. So Im 
satisfied Cigna fairly applied this term to Mr Ms claim. 
Im satisfied Cigna has acted reasonably. Based on the terms and conditions of the policy, it 
was fair for them to decline cover for the gene test. And continue to offer cover for the 
muscle biopsy. 
I appreciate a biopsy is more intrusive and this isnt Mr Ms preferred procedure. But it can 
help him move a step closer to receiving the appropriate treatment for his symptoms.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman