DRN-3803261
The complaint
Mrs B complains that delays by Capital One (Europe) plc transferring transactions to her 
new card led to the balance exceeding the credit limit. 
What happened
Mrs B has a credit card with Capital One. Last year, Mrs B contacted Capital One to check 
some transactions on her account and a new card was ordered. Capital One said it would 
transfer the existing transactions to Mrs Bs new card. 
Mrs B spoke with a customer service agent at Capital One as she was unclear about how 
the available balance of £44 had been calculated. The agent ran through all the pending 
transactions on Mrs Bs account, added the existing balance and confirmed payments (made 
by the old card) were also being taken into account. At the end of the call, Mrs B confirmed 
she understood the balance was correct. 
Around a week later, there were several further transactions on Mrs Bs credit card. When 
the payments from Mrs Bs old card were taken into account as well, the outstanding 
balance exceeded Mrs Bs credit limit by around £300. 
Mrs B went on to complain and Capital One issued a final response. Capital One didnt 
agree it had made a mistake or treated Mrs B unfairly. 
An investigator looked at Mrs Bs complaint. They thought Capital One had dealt with Mrs 
Bs case fairly so didnt ask it to take further action. Mrs B asked to appeal, so her complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs B feels the timing of the payments that were moved over from her old card 
unfairly impacted her account. I agree that it was confusing as transactions were showing as 
pending on Mrs Bs account before being visibly moved over and showing on the statement. 
Capital Ones statement shows the two payments in question were moved over around 10 
days after they were originally paid. And, in the meantime, Mrs B made payments that took 
the outstanding balance over the credit limit. 
With that being said, Ive listened to the conversations Mrs B had with Capital One. Initially, 
Mrs B asked about transactions she didnt recognise and a new card was ordered for her. 
Mrs B went on to ask why she only had £44 available. The call handler checked the pending 
transactions on Mrs Bs account. The agent then passed Mrs B to a colleague who 
confirmed how the available balance of £44 had been calculated and confirmed it was 
correct. At the end of the call, Mrs B confirmed she was happy with the explanation of the 
available balance. 
So whilst I understand Mrs Bs statements and account information wasnt as clear as it 
couldve been, Im satisfied she was aware that the available balance was £44 following her 
call with Capital One. 
Payments Mrs B made in the following week were added to the account and increased the 
outstanding balance above the credit limit. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B but as 
payments were made after Capital One confirmed the available balance and that 
transactions were being moved to her new card, Im satisfied it processed them correctly. 
As the fees and charges were correctly applied in line with Capital Ones terms and the over 
limit information recorded is correct, Im unable to tell it to it to issue a refund or make 
amendments.
I havent found evidence that Capital One made mistakes or treated Mrs B unfairly. As Im 
satisfied Capital One dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman