DRN-2343952
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly approved a fixed sum loan agreement 
that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In October 2016, Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement from Zopa for £10,000, which 
was to be used to consolidate some of his existing debts. The total repayable under the 
agreement was around £16,600. He was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around 
£277. 
In November 2019, Mr B complained to Zopa about the loan. He said that he couldnt afford 
it from the outset and that Zopa hadnt carried out adequate checks before approving the 
loan. He said that it should have carried out more due diligence and asked relevant 
questions about his financial circumstances. He said that if Zopa had done this it would have 
seen he couldnt afford the loan. 
Zopa didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that based on the information Mr B had 
declared during the application and what it had gathered from completing a credit check, it 
was satisfied the loan was affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Zopa had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, but she thought that if they 
had, it would have likely shown the lending was affordable. 
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. 
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Zopa were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
providing Mr B with the loan. There isnt a set list of checks Zopa were required to complete. 
Instead, it needed to ensure any check was borrower-focused and relevant to Mr Bs specific 
circumstances.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will therefore vary for each individual 
borrowing situation, as there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach. Some of the things that will 
impact what is reasonable and proportionate include (but arent limited to) the following:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
As part of the application process Zopa asked Mr B for details of his employment, including 
his income. It also asked some basic questions about his expenditure, this included asking 
him about what he spent on rent and whether he was required to pay any child support. Mr B 
declared his income to be around £1,880 per month, and that his monthly rent was £100 as 
he was living with his parents. However, he declared he wasnt paying any child support 
although he says he was actually paying around £330 per month. Mr B says he didnt 
declare this figure as hed misunderstood the question and thought it was asking what he 
received in child support. 
Zopa also carried out a credit check. In summary this showed that Mr B had around £18,000 
in existing credit commitments. This was broken down as a car finance loan, a personal loan 
and several revolving credit accounts (credit cards and mail order accounts). The credit 
check didnt reveal any missed or late payments or payment difficulties on his existing 
commitments. Mr B didnt appear to have any historic repayment difficulties either. 
Zopas underwriting notes show that it noticed Mr B was around £20 over his credit limit on 
one of his credit cards at the time of application. Further, it had seen hed taken out a 
number of cash advances on his credit card accounts in the previous 12 months. 
While it noted these two things as a potential concern and a possible sign of some financial 
difficulty, it said that the lending was approved because Mr B had said the purpose of the 
Zopa loan was to consolidate his existing debts and therefore this credit card balance would 
likely be cleared. It said that in addition to this it calculated that Mr B had a monthly 
disposable income of around £1,000 and based on this, the lending was affordable. 
Given that Zopa had found that Mr B was displaying some potential signs of financial 
difficulty, I dont think it was reasonable to assume he had a monthly disposable income of 
around £1,000. Clearly if Mr B had that much disposable income, it would be unlikely that 
hed need to rely on cash advances. Further, it knew that Mr B was taking out the loan to 
consolidate existing debts, which also might indicate he was struggling with his existing 
commitments. 
In the circumstances I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Zopa to 
have done more before lending to Mr B. I think it would have been proportionate for it to 
have found out more about Mr Bs committed monthly expenditure and to have asked about 
which debts Mr B was intending to clear with the loan and how that would impact his 
financial situation. Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Mr B has told us about his committed expenditure and Ive also reviewed copies of his bank 
statements in the months leading up to the application to understand what he would likely 
have told Zopa if theyd asked. 
Im not suggesting Zopa were required to ask for bank statements as part of the application 
process. I think it was sufficient in the circumstances for it to have asked Mr B about his 
expenditure. Ive reviewed the statements in order to get a better understanding of what 
Mr B would likely have declared if asked. 
The application form had already asked Mr B to declare any child support payments he was 
making, so I dont think it would have been necessary for Zopa to have asked again or to 
have questioned Mr B further when he declared he didnt pay any. However, its possible he 
would have willingly declared this information if hed been asked to list his committed 
expenditure. Giving him the benefit of doubt, Ive included that in the expenditure I think he 
would have likely declared. 
On top of his credit commitments, rent and child maintenance payments, Mr B appears to 
have had few regular payments. These included: two mobile phone contracts, a payment to 
DVLA and an insurance payment. On average, Mr B was paying around £120 per month 
towards these commitments and I think its likely he would have declared these if asked. 
It seems Mr B did use the Zopa loan to clear a number of his credit commitments, including 
the personal loan, a credit card and a mail order account. I think this is what he would have 
likely declared to Zopa if they had asked. Zopa therefore wouldnt have needed to consider 
those credit commitments as part of its assessment of affordability. 
This means that Mr Bs committed monthly expenditure, excluding his travel, food and 
essentials came to around £950 per month, this figure takes into account the credit 
commitments the Zopa loan wont have repaid and what a sustainable debt repayment (not 
just the minimum payment) would be towards those. After taking into account the monthly 
repayment to Zopa, this would have left Mr B with around £650 towards travel, food and 
other essentials. 
I think given Mr B declared he lived at home with his parents, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Zopa to conclude that the loan appeared affordable to Mr B. I therefore dont 
think Zopa has acted unfairly in granting the loan to Mr B, even though it didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. 
I note Mr B has provided a detailed breakdown and analysis of his account activity and what 
he considers to be essential expenditure. His calculations demonstrate that the loan wasnt 
affordable to him. While I dont doubt Mr B has struggled to make the repayments towards 
this loan, Zopa wasnt required to obtain bank statements from Mr B it was simply required to 
get an understanding of his normal expenditure. And I dont think its likely it would have 
obtained this level of detail about Mr Bs expenditure at the point of application. 
I say this particularly as some of the expenditure he has labelled as essential are arguably 
due to lifestyle decisions rather than necessary and essential expenditure. Further, given 
when he applied for this loan he had seemingly hoped of getting it approved, I think its 
unlikely many of the things hes included now in hindsight would have formed part of the 
expenditure assessment. 
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? I havent seen anything to make me think Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman