DRN-3209755
The complaint
Mr M complains, in summary, about a default applied to his credit file by Oakbrook Finance
Limited, trading as Likely Loans, (LL).
What happened
LL provided Mr M with a loan for £3,000 in June 2019. Mr M missed some payments and LL 
agreed repayment arrangements with him in February 2020 and March 2020. Mr M didnt 
keep to the repayment arrangements and LL sent Mr M a default notice by post in        
March 2020 and then applied a default to Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M complains that he didnt receive any information about a default that was going to be 
added to his credit file either by email or letter. In February 2020, he had moved out of the 
address he gave LL in July 2019. He said that he didnt receive any emails or letters from LL 
between February 2020 and July 2020 until he contacted LL to update his address. Mr M 
said that he hadnt informed LL of the change in address earlier as he had been furloughed 
from work and had experienced a recent break-up with his partner. He would like the default 
removed from his credit file.
In its final response letter, LL said that Mr M had failed to inform it of a change in his 
address. It said that his credit agreement said that Mr M must inform it of any change to his 
address as soon as possible, and that any written communication sent to him via post was 
assumed to have been received 48 hours after posting. As Mr M didnt inform LL of the 
change in his address, it was within its rights to send the default notice to the address which 
it held on file for Mr M at the time. LL also said that its emails to Mr M and the credit 
agreement confirmed the consequences of arrears on his account.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
LL had made an error. He had seen a copy of the default notice and noted that it was sent to 
the address for Mr M registered on LLs systems. The investigator appreciated that Mr M 
may not have been living there at the time, but he couldnt see any evidence that Mr M had 
changed his address with LL. He had to look at whether LL sent the notice and based on the 
evidence he thought that they had. The notice explained LLs intention to register a default.
Mr M disagreed and responded to say that he didnt receive any notice as he had moved out 
of the property at the address LL held in February 2020. If he had received such a letter, he 
would have contacted LL immediately to resolve this matter. He had moved during a 
pandemic, and this was to live with family as he had nowhere else to go. He admitted that he 
totally forgot to tell LL of his move, but during such a frustrating time, things slipped.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the investigator to ask LL for a copy of the loan agreement with Mr M and the terms 
and conditions of that agreement so I could see what these documents said about the need 
for a borrower to inform LL about a change of address. We havent received these 
documents. But I have located loan agreements and terms and conditions issued by LL 
around the same time as the loan to Mr M. And I would reasonably expect the documents 
issued to Mr M to be in similar form. Ive also seen the welcome letter used by LL at that 
time. 
I can see that the welcome letter tells the borrower that if their address changes from that 
shown in the letter, the borrower should tell the lender their new address promptly. And 
Condition 7 of the terms and conditions says that the borrower must notify LL of any change 
of address.
I also note that Condition 5 says that any notice can be given either electronically or sent by 
prepaid post to the address in the agreement or the last known address for the borrower. 
The loan agreement also says that a paper copy must be served for default notices.   
LL has sent this service a copy of its contact notes with Mr M. I can see from these that Mr M 
was aware of the need to tell LL of a change in address as he had used LLs change of 
address form in July 2019. 
I note that Mr M said that he had moved in February 2020. But at that time, the pandemic 
was at a very early stage and lockdown requirements didnt begin till late the following 
month. So, I think that Mr M would have had a reasonable period of time to tell LL that he 
had moved before lockdown and furlough arrangements began.
I can see from LLs contact notes that Mr M had been having payment difficulties since 
November 2019. In January 2020, LL had sent him a formal notice of sums in arrears 
required to be sent by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 with an arrears information sheet. I 
have seen a copy of these documents. I note that they were sent before Mr M had moved 
out of the address LL held on its records. I also note that the information sheet warned that 
missed payments could affect a borrowers credit file. 
LL entered into a temporary arrangement with Mr M in February 2020 and sent him the 
arrangement documents by email. But the arrangement failed later that month and LL 
terminated it. 
LL then sent Mr M a SMS in early March 2020 to say that a payment had failed. Mr M replied 
by email and said that the payment failure was due to a one-off blip and offered to make an 
extra £100 payment each month starting on 1 April 2020. LL sent Mr M arrangement 
documents by email on 12 March 2020. This arrangement failed and LL sent Mr M a notice 
of default on 30 March 2020 by post. I have seen a copy of the notice and note it was sent 
by post to the address LL held for Mr M. So, I cant say that LL has acted incorrectly here.  
Mr M was required to tell LL of a change in address by the agreement terms, and if he didnt 
do so, LL cannot be held responsible for sending the notice to an incorrect address.
I also note that Mr M said that he didnt receive any correspondence from LL by email from     
February 2020 to July 2020. But I dont think that was correct. I can see that emails were 
sent by LL to Mr M and some were responded to by Mr M during this period. Mr M sent an 
email to LL on 30 April 2020 to say hed been furloughed and offered small contributions to 
his arrears. LL responded to Mr M by email on 13 May 2020 and offered to set up a payment 
plan for May and June 2020. Temporary arrangement documents were sent by LL to Mr M on 19 May 2020. An annual statement was sent to Mr M by email in June 2020. The 
temporary arrangement was discontinued in July 2020.
I also note that Mr M said that if he had received the default, he would have contacted LL to 
resolve the matter. Its clear Mr M was aware that his account had been in arrears for 
several months and hed received several communications including texts, emails and letters 
about the arrears. I can see that Mr M had been having payment problems since    
November 2019 and he had entered into several temporary arrangements with LL as set out 
above which he was unable to keep to. This suggests that Mr M was in significant financial 
difficulty. So, I think it more likely than not that if Mr M had received the default notice, he 
wouldnt have been able to make the necessary payment to LL to prevent a default being 
applied to his credit file. 
I can also see that Mr M said that a mortgage application was affected by the default on his 
credit file. But the arrears on Mr Ms loan before the default was applied to his credit file 
would also have likely affected his credit standing. So, even if I had concluded that LL had 
made an error here, I wouldnt be able to safely say whether or not and the extent to which 
the default might have affected Mr Ms mortgage application.
  
I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy about what has happened and that this has been a 
stressful time for him. But overall, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that LL has acted inappropriately here. So, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to take any action in response to Mr Ms complaint. It follows that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
If Mr M is now experiencing financial difficulties, I would remind LL that its required to 
respond to them positively and sympathetically. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.  
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman