DRN-3217954
The complaint
 Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc have lost documents, delayed, and provided poor 
customer service when dealing with his application to refinance a loan.   
 
What happened
Mr F has had a loan with Santander since 2018. In September 2020 he contacted them to 
discuss refinancing. 
Mr F says Santander asked him to complete an online budget which he did. He was asked to 
do this twice more, and then sent forms to fill in which he completed and returned. He says 
Santander said they werent signed and sent a new set to be completed. Mr F complained 
about this and was given £30 compensation. 
Mr F made three phone calls to see what was happening and was told the documents had 
been received. But then in a later call he was told they hadnt been. New documents were 
sent which Mr F completed again and posted by recorded delivery. 
On checking with Santander, Mr F was then told that the documents had been received late 
and he had to complete a new loan application. Mr F was so unhappy about this that he 
refused and complained. He was offered a further £100 compensation and the option to fill in 
a new application or to complain to us. Mr F didnt accept the offer.
Mr F told Santander he wanted to withdraw his application to refinance and revert to his 
original loan. While the refinancing application was ongoing, Mr F had not paid his original 
loan and so was in arrears of £1880.81. Santander said that he could only revert to his 
original loan if he paid the arrears. 
Mr F was unhappy with this. He wanted to withdraw his refinancing application and return to 
his original loan repayments of £265.83 per month, he didnt want to pay the arrears, and 
wanted compensation for the distress caused. 
In their final response, Santander agreed that Mr F had been given incorrect information and 
made a payment of £100 to his account. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs case. During the investigation, Santander offered 
a further £150 compensation, and our investigator thought this was a fair offer, but Mr F 
confirmed to the investigator that this was not acceptable to him.  
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint and I will explain why below. 
I have seen all the information provided by Santander, including the system notes, and 
listened to the calls with Mr F. I have considered whether Santander have made an error, 
and whether they have acted fairly towards Mr F. 
Santander have told us that initially in September, Mr F was only asked to complete a 
budget planner to see if he was eligible to refinance, that he didnt actually make the 
application until 7 October 2020 and the application process itself wasnt completed until 22 
October 2020. 
I can see from the notes that this is the case. Mr F first contacted Santander in September 
2020 to explain that he was in financial difficulties. He agreed to speak to Pay plan, and ring 
Santander back. He rang back on 7 October 2020 to ask to refinance the loan having 
discussed it with Pay plan. The call took a very long time  almost an hour - because the 
staff member had to take advice, and she was unable to generate a settlement figure. Mr F 
had to end the call without speaking to the refinance team because he needed to eat as he 
had become dizzy.  The application was therefore not completed that day.
 
Mr F called back on 22 October 2020 and the application process was completed. A 
settlement figure was issued with the loan agreement and pre completion letter which was 
valid for 28 days. So, Mr F had until 19 November 2020 to return and sign his application 
form. 
 
Mr F sent back the pre completion letter by 12 November 2020 but not the signed 
agreement, so the completion of the loan couldnt proceed. 
The notes show that Mr F rang three times to check what was happening with his application 
between 22 October and 10 December and was misadvised that his application form had 
been received. When it was established that it hadnt been returned, he was sent a duplicate 
to sign on 20 November, but as this was already outside the 28 days, Mr F should have 
been advised that a new application was required. So, when he returned the signed 
agreement on 10 December 2020, the settlement figure was no longer valid as it was 
outside the 28 days.
I can see that having become understandably frustrated with what had happened, Mr F told 
Santander that he would not complete a new application in December and wanted to return 
to his old agreement. He was told this wasnt possible as he was in arrears by then, having 
stopped paying his loan some months before. 
In Mr Fs complaint to us, he asked to be allowed to resume his original loan repayments. As 
this loan is now part of the IVA that Mr F has entered, this resolution wouldnt be possible. 
So, I have thought about what would have happened if Santander had provided the correct 
advice earlier, and whether their offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair 
in the light of that. 
I think its likely that Mr F would have either completed the original loan application on time 
or made a new one on 20 November 2020. This would have cleared the original loan and 
reduced his repayments. However, I cant say whether Mr F would have kept up the 
payments and whether he would still have entered an IVA.  
I have also taken into account that Santander did offer Mr F the option to reapply for the 
refinance in mid-December, and if he had done this, he might still have been on reduced 
payments by the end of January. So, whilst I can see that Santanders mis advice caused distress and inconvenience and 
may also have resulted in Mr F losing time in the application process, I cant say that he lost 
all opportunity to apply for the refinance, nor that Santanders actions resulted in the IVA. 
So, on balance, I think the offer of an additional £150 on top of the £130 already received is 
fair compensation for the mistakes made by Santander.  
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint, and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £150 to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman