DRN-3114360
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc kept him standing for twenty minutes, 
and negligently allowed him to be robbed of £2,000 in cash when he left the branch where 
he had withdrawn it.
What happened
Mr R is elderly and has multiple sclerosis. He is represented in this complaint by his 
daughter, Ms R.
In February 2021 Mr R visited a branch of NatWest on his own to withdraw £2,000 in cash, 
to buy a car. He complains that he was kept standing at the counter for twenty minutes, and 
that this caused him pain in his legs.
Mr R left the branch with the money in an envelope, and he was promptly robbed just 
outside. His daughter says that there were steps the bank could have taken to prevent this. 
She says the bank should not have allowed him to withdraw the money in cash, and should 
have told him he could make the payment by making a bank transfer instead. She says it 
was irresponsible of the bank to let him go outside with that amount of cash, and without 
asking him if he had anyone with him. She also says the bank staff ought to have noticed the 
robber lurking outside the branch.
NatWest did not accept that it was responsible for the robbery. Mr R brought this complaint 
to our service, and authorised his daughter to represent him. However, our investigator did 
not uphold it. He didnt think the banks duty of care to its customers extended to what 
happened to them when they left the branch, so the bank could not be held responsible for 
the robbery. He said that if the bank had told Mr R that he could transfer the money instead 
of withdrawing it as cash, Mr R would still not have done anything differently, because he 
already knew that a transfer was possible, having discussed that option with NatWest on the 
phone the day before. He didnt think the branch staff had had any reason to suppose that 
the man waiting outside was a robber. Social distancing measures had resulted in some 
customers having to queue outside, so there had been nothing to suggest that the man was 
not just another customer. The investigator did not uphold the complaint about making Mr R 
stand, because the branch staff had been unaware of his condition.
Ms R asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
The branch staff say they did not know about Mr Rs MS, and I have no reason to doubt that. 
For that reason, I dont think they had a duty to pro-actively offer him a seat. But if Mr R was 
uncomfortable, he could have told them and asked if he could sit down while he was waiting 
to be served, and Im sure they would have accommodated him.
I dont think the bank can be held responsible for what happened when Mr R left the 
premises. I would not expect the staff to notice if somebody was standing around outside, 
since they were busy dealing with customers inside. But even if they had noticed the robber 
standing outside, it does not follow that they would have had a reason to find that suspicious.
I dont think it matters that the branch staff did not suggest to Mr R that he might prefer to 
make a transfer instead. Before Mr R visited the branch, he had phoned NatWest to make a 
transfer, and the outcome of that call was that he changed his mind and decided to withdraw 
the money in cash instead. So Im sure that if the branch staff had suggested a transfer, 
Mr R would just have told them about that phone call and then still withdrawn the cash. Im 
also not persuaded that anything would have turned out differently if they had asked him if 
he was alone or had anyone with him. Nor was NatWest was obliged to refuse to let Mr R 
withdraw his money in cash, against his wishes.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman