DRN-1892538
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt review their 
mortgage at any point after they say they were mis-sold an interest only mortgage in 2008.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M changed their capital repayment mortgage to interest only in 2008. They said 
that in August 2017 they did a review of their finances and realised that 10 years into their 
25-year mortgage, the capital sum outstanding on their mortgage had not reduced. They 
said they have no way to repay the mortgage balance at the end of the term.
Mr and Mrs M dont understand how Halifax allowed this change to happen without Halifax 
asking questions about how they were going to repay the debt at the end of the term as they 
were not asked to provide any evidence. They said that at the time the change happened, 
their family was in a vulnerable position.
They said that they Halifax havent reviewed their mortgage to see what repayment method 
they had in place and how they intended to repay the mortgage off at the end of the term.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Halifax who said they were satisfied that they hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this, so they referred the complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator asked Halifax for 
further information about the mortgage review itself and Halifax confirmed that they do not 
review repayment vehicles and said its the consumers responsibility to do so. They said that 
Halifax sent out letters asking if repayment plans are on track to repay the debt and if they 
are not, the consumer needs to contact them to see what options are available. 
After reviewing all the information, our investigator didnt think that Halifax had done anything 
wrong.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said that Halifax should have checked 
their books after the financial crisis and asked each one of their consumers who had an 
interest only mortgage if they would like to change to a capital repayment mortgage. They 
said Halifax didnt do this because they were earning higher interest.
Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint points is about the change they made to their mortgage in 
2008  when they amended it from capital repayment to interest only. Our service has 
already dealt with this complaint and a final decision was issued by our service in December 
2019. The ombudsman who looked at the complaint said it wasnt one that we were able to 
consider as it was made out of time. So I wont be looking into this and will not comment on it 
any further.
I will therefore only be considering what Mr and Mrs M have said about their interest only 
mortgage not being reviewed since they took it out.
Mr and Mrs M have said that they dont have a repayment vehicle in place to pay the 
mortgage off at the end of the term. Halifax have provided us with a declaration from when 
the mortgage switched to interest only in 2008. This declaration, which has been signed by 
Mr and Mrs M, shows that Mr and Mrs M intended on repaying their mortgage at the end of 
the term from inheritance.
They indicated on the declaration form how they intended to pay the mortgage off in the 
future. I dont think it would be fair to say that Halifax should have known or predicted if 
Mr and Mrs M were still going to repay their mortgage balance using inheritance.
Mr and Mrs M have said that Halifax should have contacted all their borrowers on interest 
only to see if they wanted to change to a capital repayment mortgage. This isnt specifically 
something we would expect a lender to do, and it isnt required under relevant rules or 
regulations.
A lender should communicate with their borrower frequently which could be in the form of a 
letter, asking how they intend to repay the capital at the end of the term and encouraging 
them to get in touch if there are any problems. I can see that Halifax have sent out letters to 
Mr and Mrs M detailing this information. This is what we would expect a lender to do and Im 
satisfied that Halifax have done this.
This letter would have given Mr and Mrs M the opportunity to contact Halifax if they had any 
concerns about how they were going to repay the mortgage off at the end of the term. 
I appreciate that this comes as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I havent found that 
Halifax have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this situation. Mr and Mrs M have a number of 
years until the term ends on their mortgage, so they can still look at options for repaying the 
capital at the end of the term. Halifax should discuss these options with them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my 
decision before 3 July 2020.
 
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman