DRN-3296448
The complaint
Mr S complains Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (L&G) gave him 
the wrong information about his property insurance policy. As a result, he says he was left 
without cover for around six days and this caused him significant distress. 
What happened
Mr S renewed an existing property insurance policy covering his buildings and contents for 
his residential address in May 2018. The policy was due to end the following year. On 
14 May 2019, the day after the insurance was due for renewal, Mr S called L&G to explain 
hed started letting out his property around two weeks earlier and to question whether his 
policy was still active. During this call, both parties agree Mr S was told hed need to cancel 
his policy and get a new landlords insurance policy. But he was also told hed have two 
weeks to shop around for the best deal  and hed be covered in the meantime. 
On 20 May 2019, Mr S called L&G again, this time to get a quote for landlords insurance. 
During this call, he was told his policy needed to be cancelled immediately and that hed 
been given the wrong information on the previous call. L&G says he shouldve been advised 
initially that hed need to look for an alternative, appropriate policy straight away to cover his 
rental property. But in its final response letter, it said as Mr S had been given the wrong 
information, it wouldve covered any claims he needed to make between 14 and 
20 May 2019 in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr S asked our service to look into things. He said hed been 
promised a call back on 18 May 2019 that wasnt received  and finding out he didnt have 
appropriate cover until 20 May 2019 had caused him a great deal of distress. 
Our investigator gave L&G the opportunity to make an offer to settle the complaint. It offered 
Mr S £50 to make up for the wrong information. But it said he hadnt suffered financial loss 
and he was given the right information quickly. Our investigator thought the offer was fair. He 
highlighted that Mr S hadnt updated his cover when his tenants first moved in and he didnt 
need to make a claim while he wasnt covered. Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. 
So the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think L&G needs to do anything more than its already offered in Mr Ss case  I know 
this will come as a disappointment to him. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute in this case that something has gone wrong. Both parties accept Mr S was 
given the wrong information during the call on 14 May 2019 which led him to incorrectly 
believe his property was insured for two weeks, during which time he could find alternative 
cover. So the question for me is whether L&G has done enough to put Mr S back in the 
position he wouldve been in if things hadnt gone wrong. 
In this case, Mr S didnt need to make a claim on the policy while he wasnt covered and it 
seems he didnt need to take out a more expensive policy elsewhere as a result of what 
went wrong. So Im satisfied he hasnt suffered a financial loss. Whilst I accept he mightve 
been surprised to find out he wasnt covered  and worried about what couldve happened if 
hed needed to make a claim during that time  he didnt need to and, he was aware of that 
by the time hed found out hed been given the wrong information. So Im persuaded L&Gs 
offer is enough to make up for the reasonable distress he mightve been caused. 
I also note L&Gs said it wouldve covered a claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy had Mr S needed to make one as hed relied on information it had given him. And I 
think thats fair in this case. I appreciate Mr S says he wasnt aware L&G had said this until 
much later in the year as he didnt receive the final response letter until then. But I dont think 
that makes a difference here. I say this because he didnt need to make a claim (and he was 
aware of that)  so I dont think he wouldve been left worrying about whether or not it would 
be paid.
Mr S says he was promised a call back on 18 May 2019 and this didnt happen. L&G says it 
doesnt have a record of this call and Mr S hasnt given us anything to show it happened. So 
Im not satisfied its more likely something went wrong here. 
Based on everything Ive seen in this case, I dont think L&G needs to pay Mr S anything 
more than the £50 it already offered him to put things right if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited trading as Legal and General to pay Mr S the £50 compensation it already offered 
him if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman