DRN-3495600
The complaint
Mrs C and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society said a cheque from their 
account has been cashed but cant give any details about when or who cashed it.
What happened
Mrs C and Mrs T held an account together with Nationwide. In 2021 they were sorting out 
some of their paperwork and found a cheque dated in 2013 from their joint account. As the 
cheque was more than six months old, they went to a Nationwide branch who reissued a 
handwritten cheque for the same amount. 
Mrs C and Mrs T then tried to pay the cheque into a new account theyd set up in their joint 
names so it could be cashed. Nationwide declined the cheque, so Mrs C and Mrs T 
complained. 
Nationwide reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the original cheque was 
dated May 2013 and it had been reissued in June 2013. Nationwide said that while it could 
see the reissued cheque had been cashed their records didnt go back far enough to provide 
any other details. As the reissued cheque had been cashed Nationwide didnt think it had 
done anything wrong by declining to honour the new cheque. 
Mrs C and Mrs T didnt agree and brought their complaint here. They said theyd needed to 
open a new joint account to cash this cheque, and as they hadnt had one before couldnt 
have cashed the cheque. They also didnt think it was fair for Nationwide to not provide any 
more information about the cashed cheque. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
Nationwide could see the details of the account but not anything further about who or when 
the cheque was cashed. And as this had happened in 2013 our investigator didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong by not having records going back that far. Mrs C and 
Mrs T disagreed; they said they couldnt have cashed the cheque as they didnt have an 
account it could be paid into. 
As Mrs C and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a cheque is issued its normal for them to only be valid for around six months. In Mrs 
C and Mrs Ts case they found a cheque issued in May 2013 and so the cheque was around 
eight years old when they found it. Because of this Nationwide reissued a new cheque only 
for it to be discovered that a previously reissued cheque had already been cashed. 
I understand Mrs C and Mrs T wanting to know more about the cashed cheque, however 
Nationwide has said as it was issued in June 2013 it doesnt hold the records for it anymore. 
Considering this is over eight years ago and there is no requirement for Nationwide to keep 
records for this long unless it is necessary, Im not persuaded Nationwide has done anything 
wrong by not know what happened to a cheque it issued more than eight years ago. It 
therefore follows that Im not going to tell Nationwide to do anything else. 
Mrs C and Mrs T have said they didnt have a joint account they could pay the cheque into 
and so cant have cashed it. However, Im persuaded that the original cheque was reissued 
and has been cashed. So I also need to be aware of the possibility that it could have been 
reissued in a name Mrs C and/or Mrs T could cash, or that it was allowed to be cashed 
without the name on the cheque being an exact match to the account it was paid into. So 
while Mrs C and Mrs T have said they didnt have an account it could be paid into until 
recently, it doesnt change the fact that the records show the June 2013 cheque was cashed. 
And as this would have been several years ago, its not unreasonable for Nationwide not to 
have the records going back that far. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs C and Mrs T were hoping for, but Im not persuaded 
Nationwide has done anything wrong by not being able to provide further information about 
the cashed cheque. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman