DRN-3844512
The complaint
Mr C has complained to Standard Life Assurance Limited about a delay when he switched 
investments within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says hes suffered a loss 
as a result of the delay. 
What happened
Mr C holds a SIPP with Standard Life. On 27 September 2022 he submitted an online 
request to switch funds. He was unsure if the request had been accepted so he called 
Standard Life later that day to check. The call handler advised Mr C that due to an income 
payment that was due to be paid from his SIPP the following day, the fund switch had been 
paused. The next morning Mr C checked his SIPP online and the investment switch still 
hadnt happened but his fund value had dropped, even when taking account of the income 
payment hed received that day. 
Mr C called Standard Life again and was told the transfer was still in progress. The call 
handler said they would get the matter looked in to. The transaction went through on 
29 September at that days values. Mr C received a statement for his SIPP confirming the 
transaction had gone through on 29 September. In response to the issue being raised by the 
call handler, Mr C received a letter confirming the trade had been placed on 27 September 
so hed not suffered a loss. However, Mr C queried this because this differed to the 
information provided in the statement. 
Standard Life looked into the matter again and issued a further letter. This confirmed the 
effective date used for the fund switch was 27 September. But it explained that as per the 
terms and conditions - Standard Life will aim to price funds as soon as reasonably 
practicable. Under normal circumstances this will be 2 working days after the trade is 
requested (if the request is received before 5pm). So the unit price date used was 29 
September - 2 working days after the request was received. Standard Life said it was 
satisfied the correct process had been followed and the request had been processed within 
a reasonable timescale.
 
Mr C remained unhappy so he referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint but she didnt think Standard Life had done anything wrong in terms 
of the fund switch. She was satisfied it had been processed in line with the terms and 
conditions. The investigator thought Standard Life couldve managed Mr Cs expectations 
better when he called to find out why the switch wasnt showing online. But ultimately, she 
felt this was a minor inconvenience that didnt impact the switch request. So she didnt think 
Standard Life needed to do anything in response to the complaint. 
Mr C was disappointed with the investigators findings and he requested the matter was 
passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for mostly the same 
reasons.  
I appreciate Mr C has said that other online investment platforms he uses execute 
transactions immediately. However, that doesnt mean that I can hold Standard Life to the 
same timescales. The terms and conditions for the Standard Life platform clearly state that 
transactions will normally be completed within 2 working days of the request being 
submitted. Thats what happened on this occasion. Our investigator set the relevant terms 
out in her opinion letter so I dont intend to repeat them here. But I can see that Mr C had to 
agree to these terms before submitting the switch request. 
I know Mr C thinks Standard Life lied to him in the first letter it issued. I dont think it did but I 
can see why some of the terminology used would have made him question what he was 
being told.  
As Mr C will be aware, an income payment was due to him on 28 September. That had to be 
processed before the fund switch could take place. So Mr Cs request was effectively placed 
on hold while the payment completed. In Standard Lifes letter it explained that once the 
income was paid out it placed the trade at the day it was instructed, so it was placed on the 
27 September. But the trade didnt complete until 29 September. And its the value at the 
date of completion thats relevant, not the date the trade was placed. Hence why Standard 
Life said that Mr C hadnt suffered a financial loss because the trade had completed when it 
was supposed to, i.e. 2 working days later on 29 September 2022. 
I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration because on this particular occasion, between submitting 
the request and the trade completing, the value of the existing funds reduced and the new 
fund increased. This couldnt be foreseen and as I dont think Standard Life did anything 
wrong when processing the fund switch, I dont think it needs to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman