DRN-2906404
The complaint
Ms A complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled her claim 
on her home protection policy. 
 
What happened
Ms A had a home protection policy which is underwritten by RSA. In August 2019 she 
contacted the provider as a number of her radiators had stopped working. RSA sent out an 
engineer who said the issue had been caused by sludge in the system and it would need to 
be power flushed to solve the problem. RSA confirmed that this was excluded from cover 
under the policy so it wouldnt pay for repairs or claims relating to the sludge.
Ms A arranged a power flush with a different company. However in February 2020 she 
experienced issues again and called RSA. It sent out another engineer who inspected the 
system and said there were still signs of some sludge, so another power flush would be 
necessary.
Ms A arranged this with a different company. The company also inspected the radiators and 
identified that some valves and a filter on the radiators needed to be replaced. So it 
completed the power flush and replaced the parts. 
Following this Ms A made a complaint to RSA. She said its engineers had mis-diagnosed the 
problem and it should therefore pay for the unnecessary power flushes and the subsequent 
repairs. She also thought it should refund the cost of a heater she purchased and her policy 
premiums for the time she had been unable to make a claim due to the sludge. She also 
said RSA hadnt done anything to help her even though shed explained she had health 
conditions that were worsening due to the issues, so it should pay her compensation. 
RSA responded to her complaint but didnt agree it had mis-diagnosed the problem. It said 
two of its engineers had diagnosed the problem as sludge in the system and it was satisfied 
that the power flushes were necessary. So it didnt agree to refund her costs in relation to 
this. However it agreed it had provided poor service at times, and offered £100 
compensation to make up for this. 
Ms A didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
thought RSA had acted fairly when diagnosing the problem and had offered enough 
compensation.
Ms A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to be clear about the remit of this service and my decision. Its my role to 
decide if RSA has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Ms As complaint. And if I 
find it hasnt, then decide what it should do to put things right. It isnt for me to determine 
what the problem was that caused Ms A to raise a claim, as Im not an expert in these 
matters. Instead I rely on reports of those who are experts to determine if RSA has dealt with 
things fairly.
Ms A has provided a vast amount of information in relation to this complaint. As this is an 
informal service, I havent responded to every point she has raised, instead Ive focussed on 
those I consider most relevant. However I want to reassure Ms A that I have considered 
everything shes said when reaching my decision. 
Ms A thinks that RSA mis-diagnosed the problem that caused her heating to stop working. 
She accepts that problems involving sludge are excluded from policy cover, but thinks RSA 
said this was the cause, when it was actually a different problem. 
RSA originally attended Ms As property in August 2019 and concluded there was sludge in 
the system which was causing the issue. After this Ms A arranged a power flush as advised 
by the engineer. RSA attended again in February 2020 and said there was still some sludge 
present and a further power flush would be necessary. 
Ive looked at the reports provided by RSA from both of its visits and Im satisfied that the 
system was inspected by two engineers, and their conclusions were that it was sludge 
causing the problems. And its reasonable that RSA rely on its experts reports when 
considering a claim.  
While Ms A has said she doesnt believe this was the cause, she hasnt provided any expert 
evidence to show that sludge wasnt the main cause of the original problem, or what the 
cause of the problem was. And the contractors she appointed to carry out the power flushes 
didnt dispute that they were required.  Whereas RSA has provided reports from its 
engineers. So on balance Im more persuaded that RSA has done enough to prove the 
cause and therefore am satisfied that RSA has acted fairly by declining Ms As claim.
Following this Ms A arranged a second power flush. But before completing this, the engineer 
she hired identified some further problems with some of the radiators. Shes had to replace 
valves and a filter to rectify this, which she says shows the problem wasnt caused by 
sludge. And says RSA should reimburse her for these costs.
Ms A has said that the issues identified by the company that carried out the second power 
flush show that the issue was mis-diagnosed. RSA has said that sludge in the system can 
cause these further issues, as it is a thick substance that can act like a glue. Ms A has 
provided no evidence to show that these faults were caused in a different way  not by 
sludge. So, in the absence of any other evidence, Im satisfied that RSA has done enough to 
show that sludge was the likely cause of these faults. And as problems related to sludge 
arent covered under the policy, its reasonable that it hasnt agreed to reimburse these 
costs.
So based on the evidence provided, I think RSA has acted fairly by concluding the problem 
was caused by sludge and subsequently not covered under the policy. So I wont ask it to do 
anything differently or to refund Ms As costs.
Ms A has said RSA has refused to provide cover for her heating system until the problem 
with sludge was rectified. She therefore says she wants it to refund her policy premiums for the period when no cover was provided. Ms As policy provides cover for lots of different 
eventualities. And RSA has said its only issues that are related to the sludge that it wouldnt 
provide any cover for, as this is excluded. So Ms A still had the benefit of cover for any other 
issues that may have arisen during that time. So it wouldnt be fair to ask RSA to refund the 
premiums. 
I understand from what Ms As said, that this has been a very difficult period for her. And that 
this has been made worse by the health conditions she has described and the Covid-19 
lockdown where she has had to shield. While I appreciate how difficult this must have been 
to not have heating for a long period, I can only make an award for compensation where I 
think a business has got something wrong. And I dont think RSA has here. So I wont ask 
RSA to pay any compensation for this.
However, I agree there have been times when RSA hasnt provided good service. For 
example when it has promised call backs that havent been made and where it gave Ms A 
the impression that she would need to use a gas safe engineer to carry out the power flush. 
RSA has offered £100 compensation to make up for the poor service and this is in line with 
what I would have recommended if it hadnt. So Im satisfied this is fair in the circumstances.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman