DRN-2649188
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn). She also complains that the supplying 
dealership confirmed that the car met the London low emission standards.
What happened
Mrs N entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in April 2019 for a used car 
costing £14,500. The car was around seven years old and had travelled approximately 
116,000 miles. Everything else being equal, Mrs N undertook to make an advance payment 
of £4,500 followed by 47 monthly payments of £365.88 making a total payable of £21,696.36 
at an APR of 34.9%.
Mrs N says that shortly after she collected the car there were problems with it, culminating in 
the engine management light being illuminated, an oil leak, turbo problems and then 
complete engine failure.
Mrs N complained to Moneybarn about the problems she was experiencing with the car and 
Moneybarn arranged for it to be inspected by an independent third party. An inspection was 
carried out in both September and October 2019.
On receipt of the inspection reports Moneybarn wrote to Mrs N in November 2019 to say that 
it didnt believe the problems she had been experiencing with the car were inherent or 
developing at the point of sale, so it wasnt upholding her complaint about the same. It also 
said that it hadnt seen sufficient evidence to uphold her complaint that she was advised (by 
the dealership) that the car met the London low emission standards.
Mrs Ns complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he accepted that Mrs N had experienced problems 
with the car but based on the two independent third party inspection reports these problems 
wouldnt have been present, or developing, when the car was supplied and responsibility for 
the same didnt fall on the supplying dealership (or Moneybarn). He also said that he had 
seen insufficient evidence to conclude that Mrs N was advised that the car met the London 
low emission standards. But in any event, this was something Mrs N could and should have 
checked for herself.
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and so her complaint has been passed 
to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.  
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mrs N acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant legislation says that Moneybarn are responsible for supplying Mrs N with a
car that is of satisfactory quality. But whats considered satisfactory will depend on a range
of factors. These would include things like the age and mileage of the car when it was
supplied, its overall condition and the price paid.
The car was around seven years old at the point of sale and had covered significant
mileage. This was reflected in the cash price which was a lot less than what it would have 
cost brand new. So, what would be considered satisfactory for this car would be very 
different to a brand new one.
Youd still expect a second hand car to be free from faults. But you would expect certain
components to be more worn and in need of replacement sooner. There might also be a
reasonable expectation that more regular maintenance might be required and that some
parts would be more prone to failure as they were nearer the end of their expected life cycle.
Im satisfied that since taking delivery Mrs N has experienced problems and there is 
currently one or more faults with the car. But like the investigator Im not persuaded that 
these faults were present or developing at the point of sale. I say this because:
The first independent inspection report dated 3 September 2019 states (amongst 
other things): However after 3,974 miles the fault is most likely a new issue and 
not related to a previous defect.
The second independent inspection report dated 28 October 2019 states: We do 
have to take into consideration the time and mileage which we are advised, have 
elapsed since the point of purchase. On this basis, on the balance of probability, the 
present defects could not have been present at that time and have likely progressed 
and developed thereafter. The eventual failure has clearly been sudden in the 
vehicles last journey. 
Although Mrs N got her own report undertaken dated 20 August 2019, I dont think 
this helps her. This report doesnt contradict the second independent inspection 
report and it also suggests that further diagnosis is required to confirm the damage 
and the cause of it. It also makes no comment on whether the fault, or faults, were 
likely to have been present or developing at the time the car was purchased.
In my view the most recent issues with the car are, on balance, unrelated to repairs 
undertaken by the supplying dealership in June 2019 (at no cost to Mrs N) or the 
three items marked on the MOT test certificate as advisories, this test being 
undertaken (and marked as passed) shortly before Mrs N took delivery.
It would appear, based on what all the parties have said and submitted, that the car 
may well have been driven without the correct amount of oil in it and for some period 
of time, And, in my view, this may have caused the latter problems, or certainly 
contributed to them and/or made them worse.I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs N, but given what I say above I find that 
on the balance of probabilities its more likely than not that she was supplied with a car that 
was, at the material time, of satisfactory quality for its age, the miles travelled and the price 
paid and the current fault(s) werent present or developing at the point of supply.
I can see that Mrs N says that she was advised by the supplying dealership that the car met 
the London low emission standards. Now I cant say for certain that Mrs N wasnt misled as 
she submits. But other than Mrs Ns testimony, Ive seen nothing to suggest she was misled. 
So, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Mrs N was misled into believing the 
car met the London low emission standards. I also agree with the investigator that 
regardless of whether Mrs N was misled about the car meeting the London low emission 
standards, this is something that she could and should have checked for herself direct with 
Transport for London.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman