DRN-3895513
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund him money he 
lost as a result of falling victim to a fraud.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below. 
Mr S found an investment opportunity through an advert hed seen on a social media 
platform. After seeing positive reviews online of the business offering the investment, Mr S 
decided to invest. 
Mr S made an initial card payment of £899. And between 8 April 2021 and 15 June 2021, 
Mr S made five bank transfers to the investment firm totalling £75,000 from his NatWest 
account. Unfortunately, it later transpired that Mr S had fallen victim to an investment fraud. 
Mr S complained to NatWest that it could have done more to prevent him falling victim to the 
fraud. After looking into the complaint, NatWest disagreed. It felt Mr S could have done more 
to ensure the investment firm was genuine before he decided to transfer the funds. It also 
argued that he ignored the warnings it provided and red flags regarding the payees account 
details returning as a negative match. 
Mr S remained unhappy with NatWest, so he brought his complaint to our service for an 
independent review. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and 
concluded NatWest should reimburse 50% of Mr Ss loss. 
The Investigator considered the complaint under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (The 
CRM Code): a voluntary code that NatWest has signed up to which offers victims of fraud 
better protection. The Investigator concluded that Mr S hadnt met his requisite level of care 
because he failed to carry out sufficient research on the purported investment firm prior to 
making the payments. They also felt that Mr S ignored warning signs, such as no match on 
the confirmation of payee process and returns that appeared too good to be true. 
However, the Investigator also felt that NatWest had failed in its duty to provide an effective 
warning when Mr S made the payments. As such, split liability was recommended. The 
Investigator didnt recommend the initial £899 card payment be reimbursed as the payment 
wasnt out of character for the account, and there were no chargeback rights available when 
Mr S reported it as fraudulent. 
Both Mr S, through his representative, and NatWest disagreed with the assessment and 
recommendations given by the Investigator. In summary, Mr S felt that he carried out 
sufficient checks on the investment firm, and NatWest felt it had provided adequate warnings 
as part of the payment process. NatWest also argued that the payments didnt fall under the 
scope of the CRM code as the funds were transferred to a cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ss 
own name. 
As both parties disagreed with the Investigators assessment and recommendations, the 
matter was passed to me for a decision.
On 7 July 2023 I issued provisional findings to both parties setting out what I was minded to 
conclude based on the evidence. The provisional findings were as follows:
Card payment 
Mr S initially made a card payment to the fraudster for £899. My S accepts that he 
authorised this payment albeit as part of what he would eventually realise was a deception.
Having looked at Mr Ss bank statements prior to the payment, Im not persuaded that it 
would have appeared unusual or out of character when compared to his normal account 
activity. 
The payment wasnt of such high value that NatWest ought to have noticed it and 
intervened. Its reasonable that payment service users could be expected to make the 
occasional higher value purchase. And it would be unreasonable to expect banks to stop all 
slightly higher than normal payments considering the number of these it processes at any 
given time. 
Im therefore satisfied that NatWests decision not to intervene and question this payment 
was reasonable. 
In any event, Mr S admits to receiving returns connected to this payment into another 
account and is therefore no longer at a loss from it. Chargeback rights are therefore 
irrelevant in this case. 
Bank transfers 
Despite NatWests disagreement, the bank transfers made as part of this scam are covered 
by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code)  a voluntary code signed up to 
by NatWest that offers victims of specific types of payment fraud better protection. 
NatWest has argued that the payments Mr S made werent covered by the CRM Code as 
they were made to his own cryptocurrency wallet and then moved onto the fraudster. And 
payments to oneself arent covered by the Code. But our Investigator has looked into this 
point and has obtained evidence from the receiving firm that the accounts werent held in 
Mr Ss name. Therefore, Im satisfied that these payments do fall within the remit of the 
Code.
The default position within the CRM Code is that a firmin this case NatWestshould 
reimburse payments to a customer that have been made as a result of an authorised push 
payment fraud, as long as those payments fall within the remit of the Code. 
There are, however, exceptions to reimbursement that a bank can rely upon. The relevant 
exceptions in the circumstances of this complaint are:
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that payee 
or business they were paying was legitimate.
The customer ignored effective warnings given by the firm that were compliant with 
the Code. 
Having considered the evidence provided by both parties, Im not persuaded NatWest are 
responsible for reimbursing Mr S his losses here. Mr S found the purported investment via an advertisement on an online social media 
platform, where he says it was being promoted by a well-known journalist. Our service hasnt 
seen this advertisement, so its difficult to say if this would have been convincing. But open 
resource research reveals no evidence that the legitimate journalist promoted this firm, 
leading me to conclude that the advertisement was falsified. 
Following witnessing this advertisement, the only research Mr S carried out on the firm was 
via general online searches which Mr S says returned minimal information. He has however 
argued that some positive online reviews and the endorsement of a well-known journalist 
was enough to convince him it was legitimate. But Im not persuaded this gave him a 
reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. 
Mr S says that he isnt an experienced investor, and this is why he lacked knowledge in 
identifying businesses that may have been illegitimate. But having looked through Mr Ss 
account statements in both this case and others linked to it, it appears there are numerous 
transactions that support the contrary. I can see multiple high value payments in and out of 
the accounts from legitimate investment firms dealing in stocks and cryptocurrency prior to 
the fraud. 
Even if I were to be persuaded that Mr S was an inexperienced investor and had only 
recently begun exploring this pursuit, I would have expected him to have proceeded with 
more caution in an area he was unfamiliar with and lacked experience in. 
Mr S, by his own admission, merely carried out basic online searches and could find minimal 
material online relating to the business. This, in my view, should have caused Mr S concern 
as its likely that a legitimate business would have a better online presence. 
Furthermore, Mr S hasnt been able to furnish our service with the positive reviews he 
witnessed online. But again, basic online research Ive carried out reveals that at the time 
Mr S discovered the business, there were reviews online that strongly indicated that the 
business was operating fraudulently. I accept that Mr S may not have found these, but this is 
merely to demonstrate the lack of research Mr S likely conducted. 
Mr S has also disclosed that he was provided with no tangible documentation setting out 
what his investment was, what his returns would be and didnt sign any contractual 
agreements regarding the proposed business relationship. Hed only been given access to 
an online platform to check his purported investment and received telephone calls from an 
individual that seemed professional. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Mr S didnt do enough here to ensure he was dealing with a 
legitimate business and decided to ignore warning signs that should have prevented him 
from continuing with the payments. 
Did NatWest do enough to prevent Mr S from falling victim to the fraud? 
As well as the CRM Code, banks have a general obligation to be on the lookout for unusual 
or out of character payments on a customers account that may indicate they are at risk of 
fraud: among other things. 
Where a fraud risk is identified, a bank is expected to intervene to ensure the customer is 
warned appropriately and, in some circumstances, should stop the payment altogether if it 
has sufficient information to do so. 
Here, Mr S attended a branch of NatWest to carry out the transactions over the counter. The 
first payment made to the fraudsters was a significant payment of £10,000. Considering Mr Ss usual account activity, this payment was of a significant value in comparison to 
historic activity and was to a new payee. 
NatWest says that it did treat this as a high-risk payment and asked Mr S a series of 
questions in branch to ensure he wasnt victim of a fraud. But these questions were largely 
unrelated to Mr Ss circumstances and limited to a checklist format. Mr Ss initial reasons for 
the payment were taken at face value and no meaningful challenge or probing questions 
were given. 
I dont find this to have been adequate in getting to the crux of what the payment was being 
made for. And had NatWest probed further, such as asking how Mr S had discovered the 
investment, I think it would have been clear that he had likely fallen victim to a fraud. This is 
further supported by NatWests decision to probe further in later payments, resulting in it 
refusing to make them altogether and any future payments to the payee. 
While I find NatWest correctly probed the payments at a later stage and prevented any 
further loss, it should have done this sooner. 
If NatWest had done more, would it have likely prevented Mr Ss losses? 
While NatWest could have done more at an earlier stage, Im not persuaded that this would 
have made a difference here. 
Later in the sequence of events, NatWest blocked Mr Ss payments to the fraudster. And 
after asking some probing questions, it was convinced Mr S was in fact the victim of a fraud 
and refused to make any further payments. Ive listened to the call between NatWest and 
Mr S, and he was explicitly informed about this by the advisor. Mr S can be heard 
acknowledging the warning and was advised to divert his efforts to recovering the funds hed 
already sent. 
However, despite this, Mr S continued to make the payments to the fraudster by transferring 
funds from his NatWest account to another account in his name held with a third-party 
provider and onto the payee. 
I realise that Mr S likely did this as he was convinced the investment was genuine. But hed 
already failed to carry out any meaningful diligence checks on the investment firm and at this 
stage had been told plainly that he was likely the victim of fraud. This persuades me that 
even had NatWest done more at an earlier stage and refused to make the payments, Mr S 
would have still gone ahead and made the payments via different means. 
For these reasons, I dont find it likely that any actions carried out by NatWest would have 
prevented Mr S from continuing with the payments. I therefore dont find it reasonable to now 
expect NatWest to reimburse Mr S for his losses, as any intervention wouldnt have had a 
material impact on his decision to invest.
Both parties were provided an opportunity to respond to the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
NatWest didnt provide any further comment. However, Mr S, through his representative, 
disagreed. In summary, the following arguments were made:
Earlier intervention would have likely been more impactful
As Mr S had already invested large sums of money at the point he was warned about 
the fraud, he continued to make the payments  likely as a result of the sunken loss 
fallacyIt would have been obvious to the bank had it intervened sooner that Mr S was the 
victim of a fraud
Later intervention felt more of an inconvenience to Mr S who had already invested 
large sums with relative ease. This created a sense of acceptance by the bank 
regarding the legitimacy of the transactions
As both parties have now responded to the findings set out in provisional findings, Im in a 
position to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr Ss representative that warnings are, in some circumstances, less effective at 
later stages in a fraud. And I agree, in part, that a person can be less receptive to risk 
indicators and fraud warnings where theyve already parted with large sums of money. But 
Mr S wasnt provided with warnings here, he was explicitly told hed likely been defrauded.
The banks representative removed significant doubt from the situation and recommended 
that Mr S direct his efforts toward recovering his existing losses. It even went one step 
further and blocked Mr S from being able to make any further payments to the beneficiary.
I have no reason to believe that had NatWest been provided with the same information at an 
earlier stage, which it likely would have, then it would have carried out the same actions for 
all the reasons Mr Ss representative has set out in their response. And Im not persuaded 
that Mr S would have acted any differently at an earlier stage after hed been given such 
specific and impactful information. 
I acknowledge Mr S had already transferred a large sum of money prior to being informed he 
was a victim of fraud, but I dont find this impacted his ability to understand what he was 
being told by the bank. And this didnt dissuade him from making substantial payments after. 
Its therefore unlikely it would have done so at an earlier stage even had he transferred little 
or no money at that stage. 
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional findings, I find that had NatWest 
intervened sooner, Mr S likely would have continued with the payments via other means. Its 
therefore unreasonable to expect NatWest to reimburse him his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman