DRN-4310058
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn No.1 Ltd. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mr F acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car was nine years old and had covered around 102,000 miles. The cash 
price was around £15,500. The agreement was to be paid back over five years with monthly 
payments of around £370.
Mr F complained to Moneybarn in July 2022 about issues he was having with the car. He 
says there was a warning light on the dash which he found when he took the car in for a 
service. He says the garage told him they found the filter to which the code relates. He said 
someone had gone into the cars computer system before he collected it and bypassed the 
error code to hide the fault (or service requirement) from future keepers. He said the repair 
would cost around £2,500. He said he wouldnt have acquired the car had he known. 
Moneybarn said it wanted to arrange an inspection. Mr F said he would try to stop using the 
car, but he needed it for work. He highlighted something had been done to the car to 
manipulate the warning lights, and that it would be an automatic MOT failure. He also 
mentioned both washer jets had come loose from the car. 
Moneybarn arranged for an independent report on the car in October 2022. At this point the 
car had covered around 104,600 miles. In summary, the inspection set out the issue with the 
washer jets most likely developed during the time Mr F had the car, and that it was unlikely 
to be the responsibility of the trader. It also highlighted an engine management light was 
illuminated and there was a fault code relating to the EGR. But the inspector said he didnt 
consider this to be confirmed as being present at the point of supply or the responsibility of 
the trader. The report noted the other warning light Mr F was concerned about but said there 
were no messages relating to the fault. He said there may be an underlying issue, but it 
wasnt related to the EGR. He said its not the responsibility of the trader and it could be a 
minor issue that requires investigation by a manufacturer dealership. 
Mr F wanted to reject the car. He also mentioned hed noticed a drop in the ride height in the 
right-hand rear of the car. 
Moneybarn sent a final response. It didnt uphold the complaint about the quality of the car 
based on the independent inspection, but it offered Mr F £50 for the delays in responding to 
his complaint. 
Moving on to December 2022, Mr F obtained an estimate for works on the car. This was for 
replacing the timing chain; carrying out repairs as required in relation to juddering and 
manoeuvring on full lock; investigating and rectifying the possible cause of a LIN bus fault. 
The estimate came to about £5,000 and it said thered be an additional cost if glow plugs 
needed replacing. The car had covered around 105,500 miles by this point.  
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. He said he was unhappy the car was unusable, 
and he was still having to pay for it. He said he was keen to reject it. 
Our investigator looked into things but said he didnt think there was sufficient evidence the 
faults initially complained about were inherent or that they made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. He highlighted the inspectors findings on the independent report that said he didnt 
think the conditions to have been present at the point of supply. Our investigator also noted 
the repairs estimate of £5,000. But he said this didnt give details of any faults with the car or 
provide any opinion about when the potential issues occurred. So he didnt make any further 
recommendations. 
Mr F wasnt happy with the outcome. He supplied another vehicle check from a garage that, 
in summary, highlighted a recommendation to replace the timing chains; a recommendation 
to remove the transfer box to carry out repairs as required; and that the vehicle had been 
manipulated to switch off the passenger seat occupancy mat. The check said the car had 
been modified in a way not permitted by the manufacturer. It said it could impact the 
passenger air bag and so is a safety issue. 
Our investigator sent the vehicle health check to Moneybarn. Moneybarn said the evidence 
was from an independent specialist and not a main dealer. It said the issues appeared to be 
down to wear and tear. And that the airbag issue had only been noted around April 2023. So 
Mr F would need to show this was an inherent issue given the time hed been in possession 
of the car. It also highlighted the independent report hadnt mentioned the airbag issue 
indicating it wasnt present. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr F and Moneybarn that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
Mr F acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr F entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
Moneybarn is the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for 
dealing with a complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.
In Mr Fs case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 102,000 miles. Thered 
be very different expectations of it than if it was a brand-new car. But Im conscious the car cost around £15,500. So I can understand why Mr F would be unhappy with any significant 
issues that occurred straight away.   
I think theres enough evidence to demonstrate there are faults with the car. We have an 
independent report highlighting issues. And Mr F has also submitted vehicle health checks 
or estimates for works that look to be required. 
I can understand that Mr F is disappointed at having spent over £15,000 to acquire a car that 
there are various issues with it. And hes not covered a huge number of miles in it. But what I 
have to bear in mind is that I dont need to just see theres faults, I need to see that the faults 
were in relation to something that made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr F. Is there enough evidence of that?
Mr F supplied a description from a garage in July 2022 about a service lamp on the dash. It 
says it looks like a service indicator (in relation to a filter) has been removed and that it 
couldnt recode the fault. But its not said anything about when this was likely to have 
happened, or what is required to put things right. Mr F said it would cost £2,500 to fix, but 
Ive got no supporting evidence of that. Moreover, like Moneybarn pointed out, Im conscious 
that the check was from a garage but, from what I can tell, not a manufacturer garage, that 
mightve been able to give some more clarity.  
Next, I have an independent report that was carried out. Moneybarn obtained the report 
because Mr F complained about faults within the first few months of acquiring the car. I think 
this was a fair step for Moneybarn to take. Again, while the report highlights faults, it doesnt 
say any of the faults were inherent or the responsibility of the trader. So this doesnt give me 
the grounds to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I appreciate 
that Mr F might not agree with the report. But the report is independent from a qualified 
professional. And I can only base my decision on the evidence thats available. 
Mr F supplied further evidence after Moneybarn sent its final response letter. But like with 
the initial vehicle check, the further evidence from December 2022 Mr F supplied highlights 
an estimate for a set of works. It doesnt provide a report on faults and details of whether 
those faults were inherent, or whether they made the car of unsatisfactory quality. So this 
doesnt give me the grounds to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply either. 
Ive next thought about the airbag issue. Given this is a key safety issue I agree this must 
have been really concerning for Mr F to have been told. Like our investigator pointed out, 
Ive not got the evidence this was down to an inherent problem with the car, or whether it 
was something that happened since Mr F acquired it. I have no evidence its linked to any of 
the other issues Mr F highlighted. Im conscious it wasnt found until over a year after Mr F 
acquired the car. The car was around 10 years old at this point and had covered well over 
100,000 miles. Without the evidence Ive mentioned, I have no way of knowing whether this 
was down to an inherent problem or not. 
Mr F has had the opportunity to supply further evidence about the faults, and their causes. I 
appreciate he queried why the investigator hadnt contacted various garages and the credit 
broker, but its important to note that its our role to consider the evidence submitted by the 
complainant and the respondent to then reach a conclusion on what we think is fair and 
reasonable. As I said above, were required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality. So if there was evidence Mr F thought was important for us to see, it was up to him 
to supply it. I can understand hes disappointed with the outcome. And I do sympathise. But 
based on the evidence submitted, I dont have the grounds to say the faults made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. However, I did want to highlight that after being presented with the new vehicle check 
information, Moneybarn seems to have left the door open to consider any new evidence 
Mr F might have. Im conscious the fault with the airbag in particular might not be something 
linked to anything Moneybarn has had the chance to consider. Moneybarn has highlighted 
the car hasnt been seen by a manufacturer garage I note the independent inspection also 
said this could be considered. Mr F may wish to consider this as it might be able to give 
more information about when the faults occurred. But Ill leave that to him to decide. 
I dont want to pass Mr F around the houses. But its important to set out our service is here 
to look at complaints that have already been considered by the respondent firm. Given 
Moneybarn seems willing to consider any evidence Mr F might have  if he has something 
new to submit that he thinks supports his case (in relation to the issues highlighted after 
Moneybarn sent its final response), he should supply this to Moneybarn in the first instance 
to give it the opportunity to look into things. If Mr F is unhappy with its response, it may be 
something our service is able to consider.  
Finally, Moneybarn offered Mr F £50 for the delay in handling his complaint. This seems to 
be broadly fair in all the circumstances. However, while I sympathise, based on the evidence 
submitted, Im dont have the grounds to make any other directions. 
My final decision
Moneybarn No.1 Ltd offered Mr F £50 to resolve the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. So to the extent its not done so already, Moneybarn No.1 Ltd should pay 
Mr F £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman