DRN-2148317
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt help him to get his money back when he 
bought a car that he was very unhappy with.
What happened
Mr C bought a car from a dealership. He was unhappy with the quality of the vehicle. He said 
hed relied on the checks that the dealership said had been done to guarantee the quality of 
the vehicle. But there were problems which he said ought to have been picked up on the 
previous MOT, and werent. Mr C said that the dealer agreed to cover the cost of some 
repairs, but not others. And the dealer wouldnt accept the car back.
Mr C asked HSBC to try to get the money back for him. He said HSBC credited his account 
with £500 for the deposit, and £4,475 for the purchase, but then it closed the claim and took 
this money back. Mr C said hed now sold the car, he thought for £3,550. Hed lost £1,300 
and he wanted HSBC to cover that loss, and to provide compensation for the time hed 
wasted on a chargeback, and the time and stress of having to sell the car on. 
HSBC said that Mr C had raised a chargeback request with it on 6 September. It had 
credited Mr Cs account with the disputed amounts on 18 October. On 13 November HSBC 
had tried to speak to Mr C, but hadnt been able to. It had written to him instead. He rang 
HSBC on 2 December, and the disputes team sent documents to him. He agreed to reply 
within 24 hours, but HSBC didnt actually check the comments he sent in until 9 December, 
and by that time, the deadline to make a chargeback request had passed. HSBC wrote to Mr 
C on 10 January to say that HSBC cant help him further, because he didnt return the goods 
to the seller. And it removed the disputed amounts from his account on 20 January. 
HSBC said it had looked at Mr Cs complaint again, and it didnt feel it wouldve succeeded, 
as hed sold the car as roadworthy, and with the same MOT that it had when he bought it. 
HSBC said it wouldnt pay the difference between what Mr C paid the dealership and what 
he got when he sold the car. But it would pay £100 in compensation to acknowledge any 
distress or inconvenience it may have caused.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that HSBC had clearly 
made a mistake with Mr Cs chargeback request. But our investigator didnt think that this 
had actually affected the likely outcome, because he just didnt think Mr Cs chargeback 
request was likely to succeed anyway. For that reason, he said that the £100 offer HSBC 
had made provided a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that it was easy for HSBC to say now that the delay hadnt 
affected its decision. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
HSBC said that it didnt look at what Mr C had submitted for his chargeback request right 
away. By the time it looked at this, it was too late to put in a chargeback request. But its told 
us it doesnt think that wouldve affected Mr Cs case anyway, because he still wouldnt have 
won. 
The reason HSBC gives now for Mr Cs chargeback request failing is rather different to the 
one it gave Mr C at the time. So I understand Mr Cs scepticism about this. But in looking at 
this particular case, Im not just accepting what HSBC has said about the delay in 
considering Mr Cs submissions. Im looking at the evidence that both he and the dealership 
submitted, and thinking about whether this chargeback might have succeeded. And I also 
think it wouldve been very unlikely to succeed. 
Our investigator explained that chargebacks arent a right. Banks dont have to make such a 
request if they dont think it will succeed. And I think that HSBC was right to say that this 
case had little chance of success. 
Mr C says that the goods werent of satisfactory quality, and not as described because the 
merchant didnt tell him about the problems he discovered later. But Mr C did sell the car as 
roadworthy, so the car wasnt unusable. 
I understand that Mr C spent a sizeable amount of money, and he thought he was getting a 
better quality car than he got. So he was deeply disappointed to find additional faults with it. 
But it would be exceptionally difficult to prove, as Mr C alleges, that the independent garage 
that MOTed the vehicle before Mr C bought it, deliberately overlooked things that were 
wrong with it and should have been noted as advisories on an MOT, and also that the 
dealership knew this. 
Chargebacks are ultimately decided by the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on 
Mr Cs card. Banks dont make the rules, and they cant change them. And despite the later 
evidence that Mr C got about the condition of the car, I dont think that this chargeback 
wouldve been likely to succeed. Thats why I dont think that HSBC has to pay Mr C what he 
might have got if it had succeeded. 
I do think that HSBC put Mr C to quite some trouble, and then didnt review the evidence he 
submitted until too late. For that reason, I do think HSBC should pay some compensation. 
But I also think that its offer of £100 is sufficient to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. So thats what Ill award.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman