DRN-4338776
The complaint
Mr P complains through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market 
(Quid Market) gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr P took 10 loans from Quid Market and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
daterepayment 
periodhighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £225.00 09/09/2013 30/09/2013 21 days £289.13
2 £275.00 30/09/2013 31/10/2013 31 days £367.81
3 £225.00 31/10/2013 29/11/2013 29 days £295.34
gap in lending 
4 £300.00 07/11/2019 28/02/2020 4 months £119.37
5 £300.00 06/03/2019 28/08/2020 6 months £94.30
6 £400.00 13/09/2020 31/12/2020 4 months £151.89
7 £400.00 14/01/2021 31/03/2021 3 months £181.86
8 £400.00 18/05/2021 30/09/2021 5 months £128.17
9 £450.00 02/10/2021 28/02/2022 5 months £160.56
10 £400.00 16/08/2022 outstanding 4 months £150.64
Following Mr Ps representatives complaint, Quid Market issued its final response letter
(FRL) and it didnt uphold his complaint. Although, Quid Market didnt uphold the complaint,
as a gesture of goodwill but in full and final settlement of the complaint, it offered to remove
these loans from Mr Ps credit file. It also offered to waive the outstanding interest of £202.56
from the outstanding balance. If Mr P had accepted this offer, it would have reduced his
outstanding balance to £249.
The offer wasnt accepted and instead the complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman. The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator who didnt 
think Quid Market had done anything wrong when loans 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were granted. 
And so these loans werent upheld.
In the adjudicators view Quid Market ought to have done some further checks before
granting loans 3 and 8. However, as neither Mr P nor his representatives had provided any
details of Mr Ps finances at the time these loans were granted, she also wasnt able to say
Quid Market was wrong to have provided them. These two loans were also not upheld.
In relation to loans 9 and 10 she thought the lending had now become harmful for Mr P and
so, she upheld these loans.
Quid Market responded and didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. In summary it said:
Since 2015 Quid Market has only offered 3-to-6-month instalment loans.
Each loan application is subject to a credit search and manual underwriting.
Although loans 9 and 10 have been upheld for being persistently reliant on the 
loans this isnt a reason to uphold loans because Mr P was able to choose whether 
to take out further loans.
There was a break in lending between Mr P repaying loan 9 and taking loan 10.
The capital borrowed for loan 9 was only £50 more than some previous loans.
Mr Ps income had increased by £200 between loans 8 and 9.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I then 
issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold loans 
nine and 10 but for different reasons then the ones reached by the adjudicator. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further comments or evidence as soon as possible, 
but in any event, no later than 7 September 2023. 
Neither Quid Market nor Mr P  or his representative responded or acknowledged the 
findings in the provisional decision. 
As the deadline for a response has now passed, I see no reason to delay the issuing of this 
final decision and a copy of the provisional finding follows this in smaller font and forms part 
of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator thought this point
was reached by the time loan 9 was granted.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repayhis loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Neither Quid Market nor Mr P seem to have disagreed with the adjudicators decision to
firstly not uphold loans 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 or 7. Neither does there appear to be any dispute that
further checks may have been needed before loan 3 and 8 were granted. But the effect of
not having any relevant information means those two loans have also not been upheld. It
therefore seems these loans are no longer in dispute and so I say no more about them.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Quid Market did all it ought to have done before
advancing loans 9 and 10.
Loan 9
Before this loan Quid Market made enquire with Mr P about his income and expenditure and
it also carried out a credit check. While I acknowledge that Mr P had declared an increase in
salary by the time this loan was approved, that alone wouldnt and shouldnt have led
Quid Market to conclude that this loan was automatically sustainable for Mr P.
Indeed, considering the loan history including the time in debt, at the very least for this loan
Quid Market ought to have verified the information Mr P had provided. But in addition to
establishing whether the loan was affordable, Quid Market also had to consider whether the
loan was sustainable, and that is what Ive done.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Quid Markets lending history with Mr P, with a view
to seeing if there was a point at which Quid Market should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quid Market should have realised
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 9. I say this because:
At this point Quid Market ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay his
loans sustainably. Mr P had taken out his six loans in 33 months. So, Quid Market
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further
to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs.
From his first loan, Mr P was generally provided with a new loan shortly after the
previous loan had been repaid, for example, before loan 9 there was only a gap of
two days. To me, at times, the quick up take in borrowing was a sign that Mr P was
using these loans to fill a long-term gap in his income rather than as a short-term
need.
Mr Ps first loan in the chain was for £300 and loan 9 was for 50% more. At this point
Quid Market ought to have known that Mr P was not likely borrowing to meet a
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quid Market. Loan 9
was taken out 33 months after Mr Ps first loan (the first in a new chain) and was to
be repaid over a similar term as the previous loans. This loan also had the second
highest monthly repayments in this chain. Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to,
in effect, service a debt to Quid Market over an extended period.
My provisional decision is that I think that Mr P lost out when Quid Market provided loan 9
because:the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Loan 10
Quid Market is quite right to point out that there is over a five-month gap after Mr P repaid
loan 9 before he returned to apply for loan 10. Ive thought carefully about this gap in the
context of this complaint and how Quid Market ought to have reacted.
Firstly, I dont think this gap was large enough for Quid Market to have concluded that
loan 10 was the start of a fresh lending chain. I say this with consideration of the time Mr P
had previously spent in debt, the amount of his previous loans and the term that the loan
was due to be repaid over. So, this loan does fit within the same lending chain as loans 4 
9.
Secondly, and importantly for this case, I do think the gap in lending is a sign that potentially
the lending was no longer inherently harmful for Mr P. That means, I cant agree with the
adjudicator that this loan ought to be upheld purely because of the pattern of use. Instead,
I think Quid Market ought to have carefully considered the information it was provided with
from Mr P as part of its affordability assessment.
For this loan Quid Market wouldve asked Mr P about his income and expenditure details 
unfortunately the document provided by Quid Market doesnt contain any information and so
I dont know exactly what Mr P declared to it. But the FRL says that Mr P declared a similar
income for this loan as he did for loan 9 - £1,950 per month. Quid Market says that for this
loan a copy of his wage slip was provided by Mr P.
He also declared outgoings of £1,300  which left £650 per month in disposable income to
afford the repayment of £150.64. So, the loan wouldve looked affordable.
A credit search was also carried out and Quid Market has provided a copy of the results that
it received from the credit reference agency. So, Ive looked at these to see if there was
anything contained within it that ought to have either led Quid Market to have conducted
further checks and / or declined the application for the loan.
The results showed that Mr P had 10 active accounts when this loan was approved, he had
opened two accounts within the previous six months. It also knew Mr P owed other creditors
just over £4,600. So superficially, there wasnt anything that demonstrated Mr P was reliant
on this sort of borrowing.
But it did know that Mr P was significantly over his credit limit(s) on revolving credit budget
accounts. He owed £2,796 against total credit limits of £2,093. And importantly, Quid Market
knew from the credit check results for loan 9 that Mr P had been over his credit limit for
revolving as well. What this does mean, is that for over a year Quid Market knew he had
been over his credit limit. Clearly, in my view, this was an indicator that Mr P was struggling
to keep on top of his existing credit commitments.
It also knew that Mr P had defaulted on one account within the last year and had another
account enter delinquency in that time. Indeed, the default appears to have been applied in
March 2022, and was for a Finance House loan. But given the term and monthly
repayment this was likely either an instalment loan or a home credit loan. So, a similar
product to the one Quid Market was now advancing to Mr P.
In terms of the delinquent account, Quid Market was told that in the last six months, one
credit card account had entered delinquency on two separate occasions. The most recent
being in July 2022. So, the month before the loan was approved. Mr P had demonstratedthat he was  close to when this loan was approved - having problems keeping on top of his
finances.
Finally, Mr Ps credit file, showed that he was a regular user of payday loans, he had settled
five such loans since January 2022, with the most recently being settled only two weeks
before loan 10 was granted. What this does mean, is that during the gap between loans 9
and 10 Mr P had continued to take payday / instalment loans from other providers. Which
meant Quid Market was aware, although Mr P wasnt borrowing from its company, that he still
had a need for such loans as he was taking them from elsewhere. Therefore, I still dont
think loan 10 was sustainable for Mr P.
Taking account of the total lending history and the information contained within the credit
report I am intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 10  but for different reasons
then the one reached by the adjudicator.
Finally, while I accept this was made as a gesture of goodwill, Quid Market, in the FRL made
an offer for this loan which is in line with what I am proposing it does to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for my consideration, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think loans nine and 10 
ought to have been granted for the reasons I have previously outlined in the provisional 
decision and what is set out above.  
Ive outlined below what Quid Market needs to do in order to put things right for Mr P. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 9 and 10 to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought not to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quid Market shouldnt have given Mr P loans 9 and 10.
If Quid Market has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so andthen take the following steps. If Quid Market isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Quid Market should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P 
towards interest, fees and charges on loan 9.
B. Quid Market should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date 
Mr P originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quid Market should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
loan 10, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr P having made 
overpayments then Quid Market should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Quid Market should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance due for loan 10 then the amounts 
calculated in A and B should be used to repay any balance remaining. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then Quid Market should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr P.
E. The overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loans 9 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so Quid Market should remove the loan entirely 
from Mr Ps credit file. Quid Market should also remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loan 10. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to deduct tax from this interest. Quid Market
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market should put things right for Mr P as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman