DRN-2335510
The complaint
Miss M complains about problems she experienced when arranging a payment deferral 
(holiday) with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
In April 2020 Miss M contacted Santander to ask for a three month break in her mortgage 
payments due to the coronavirus pandemic. She says she then realised that the missed 
payments would be added to her mortgage balance so decided against the payment holiday. 
She contacted Santander a few days after requesting the payment holiday to cancel it. 
Santander cancelled the payment holiday for April and took her monthly payment. But it 
failed to cancel the payment holiday for May and June, so no payment was taken for either 
of these months. Miss M complained to Santander about this. She also complained that 
shed had a number of letters regarding her new monthly payment which were confusing and 
contradicting.
Santander agreed it had made a mistake. It said it had failed to cancel the payment holiday 
for May and June and this is why her payments werent taken. It suggested it take the 
payments from her savings account and back date her mortgage account as if the payments 
were made on time. It also offered £100 compensation for its mistakes. Miss M didnt agree 
and referred the complaint to us. She said it was Santanders mistake, so Santander should 
now cover her missed payments rather than her. She also reiterated just how much stress 
and anxiety this matter has caused.
Our investigator looked into things. She agreed Santander had made a mistake but thought 
that it was fair for Miss M to make the payments from her savings account. She also noted 
that Santander had increased the level of compensation it was offering to £250. She thought 
this amount was fair. Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. So, its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive spoken with Miss M and its clear that she feels very strongly about this matter. And Ive 
no doubt its caused her much upset and worry. Although Miss M has raised a number of 
points in relation to this complaint, my role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the 
complaint. That is, the failure to cancel the payment holiday. So, I want to reassure Miss M 
that I have carefully considered everything shes said and everything shes sent us. But I 
dont intend to address each and every point. I hope she realises I mean no disrespect by 
this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
It isnt disputed here that Santander made a mistake. Miss M asked it to cancel her payment 
holiday and it did so for April, but not for May or June. Santander also accepts its 
communication was confusing. What I need to decide here is how things should be put right.
I understand why Miss M feels frustrated. She decided that the best action for her was to 
continue to make her payments rather than take a payment holiday. And she made this 
request to cancel the payment holiday in good time, but Santander didnt correctly complete 
her request. However, I dont agree that its reasonable that Miss M shouldnt have to make 
these payments as a result of the mistake. The payments would have been due from Miss M 
one way or another, whether shed taken the payment holiday or not. And Miss M was 
aware, very soon after the payment wasnt taken, that a mistake had been made. 
Our role is to put a consumer back in the position they wouldve been in had a mistake not 
occurred. In this instance, Miss M has the funds available in a savings account. So 
Santander is offering to take the payments from Miss Ms savings account and apply them to 
the account as if they had been made on time. I consider this does put her back in the 
position she shouldve been in, and is fair and reasonable in my opinion. Financially, she will 
be no worse off. As Ive already explained, these payments were always due.
Miss M has said she put the money into her savings account to protect herself against what 
may happen in the future due to the coronavirus pandemic. Such as ensuring she could pay 
her mortgage at a future date, so she doesnt want this to now be taken as its now her back 
up fund. But the point here is that had it not been for Barclays mistake, she wouldnt have 
been able to put this money in the savings account in the first place as it wouldve gone to 
paying her mortgage. This money was always earmarked to pay her mortgage, so I cant see 
a reason to now tell Barclays to cover these payments.
Miss M has indicated that she doesnt want the payments to now be taken as she thinks 
Santander should cover the payments and doesnt want her savings to be reduced. In this 
case, there are two options for her that I can see. Either the payments for May and June are 
treated as a payment holiday, or they are treated as having been missed and in arrears. The 
first may mean that her mortgage balance and amount of interest she is charged increases 
but will have no negative impact on her credit file, whereas the second option would mean 
her being treated as being in arrears and would likely have a negative impact on her credit 
file. Ill leave it for Miss M to discuss with Santander which of the other options she wishes to 
happen and the full impact of each of these.
Its clear that this has had an impact on Miss M and caused her both upset and 
inconvenience. Shes had to try to sort out the mistake of the payments not being made. And 
Santanders correspondence following the mistake has made things unclear at times. Miss M 
has been going through a tough time, and this clearly hasnt made things any easier.  
Following the complaint being referred to us, Santander has increased its offer to £250 for 
this. Ive thought very carefully about the impact this has likely had on Miss M. Having done 
so, Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
To put matters right, Santander UK plc should:
pay Miss M £250 for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes have caused her. 
If Miss M decides to make the missed payments within 28 days of accepting my 
decision, it should rework her account as if they were made on time and ensure 
nothing is recorded on her credit file.
If Miss M decides not to make the payment within 28 days of accepting my decision, 
Santander should treat the missed payments as a payment deferral under the 
Financial Conduct Authority coronavirus guidance. Her account should be reworked 
to reflect this, if necessary, and no impact should be noted on her credit file. If Miss M contacts Santander and specifically asks for it not to be treated as a 
payment deferral and doesnt make up the missed payments, then Santander can 
treat this as it normally would for consumers who have missed payments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman