DRN-3777792
The complaint
Mr G has complained that the balance on his mortgage account with Barclays Bank UK Plc 
has been incorrect for a number of years. Mr G would like Barclays to adjust the account to 
its correct position, taking into account all payments made.
Mr G is represented in the complaint by a relative, but for clarity I will refer to Mr G 
throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 14 October 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr G being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
In summary, Mr G took out a mortgage with Woolwich, the residential mortgage lending 
division of Barclays, in 2008. The mortgage also came with a Mortgage Current Account 
(MCA). The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the 
mortgage, the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what 
Barclays calls rebalancing.  This can be spent by the borrower, through the mortgage 
current account. 
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Payments made towards the mortgage will be applied towards reducing the mortgage 
account balance, but not the MCA.
In 2021 Mr G queried his mortgage and MCA account balances with Barclays. In its final 
response letter, Barclays explained that it had provided Mr G with its calculations and that 
these were correct. Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked at what had happened. She didnt think Barclays calculations were 
correct. To put things right, the investigator asked Barclays to recalculate the mortgage to 
reflect the payments Mr G had actually made, and pay compensation of £400 for trouble and 
upset.
Barclays recalculated the account, and in a letter dated 14 October 2022 the investigator 
noted that Mr G had overpaid £19,678.40 on the mortgage account. She was satisfied 
Barclays calculations were correct this time and that the mortgage balance should have 
been £24,670.69 as at 1 August 2022.
Mr G still didnt think the figures were correct and wanted further investigation. He said that 
overpayments hadnt been applied to the MCA. The investigator explained that our service 
doesnt audit accounts and that the calculations provided by Barclays appeared to be 
correct. She clarified that payments made to the mortgage were not applied to the MCA. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, but didnt have any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont providing an auditing service, and my role is not to 
re-calculate Mr Gs mortgage account; I am required to review the complaint and decide 
what I think is a fair outcome. In addition, Barclays has acknowledged it made an error and 
has agreed to put the account back into the position it should have been in if the mistake 
hadnt been made. Therefore I dont need to decide if a mistake has been made  all I need 
to consider is what needs to be done to put it right.
After looking at everything thats happened, Im satisfied that the position as set out in the 
investigators letter of 14 October 2022 is the correct one. Mr G had overpaid the mortgage, 
but Barclays hadnt properly taken this into consideration. 
Ive noted what Mr G has said about the MCA  that he didnt know that overpayments 
wouldnt reduce the MCA. But Im satisfied that it would, or should, have been apparent to 
Mr G from his MCA statements that the payments he was making towards the mortgage 
werent reducing the balance on the MCA. Therefore I dont think Barclays has made any 
error regarding the MCA.
Putting things right
Mr G has a copy of the second set of calculations Barclays has carried out on the mortgage. 
Both the investigator and I are satisfied these are accurate and put the account in the 
position it should have been in if overpayments had been properly applied. Barclays should 
apply these calculations, and reduce Mr Gs mortgage balance to £24,670.69 as at 1 August 
2022.
Because Mr G has been caused distress and inconvenience in having to raise this matter 
with Barclays, I am satisfied that a payment of compensation is warranted. I agree with the 
investigators recommendation of £400 as being fair, reasonable and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr G by Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to put in place 
the redress set out above, and to pay Mr G £400 for distress and inconvenience. I make no 
other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman