DRN-3269254
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc  trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In October 2013, Mr M applied online for a credit card from M&S. This was approved with a 
limit of £1,100. In May 2018, M&S increased the limit to £2,500.
Mr M complained. He said he couldnt afford the card and M&S didnt complete the 
necessary checks before issuing the card or increasing his limit. He had to borrow money 
from other sources to make the repayments. He said all interest and fees should be 
refunded.
M&S said theyd completed sufficient checks in 2013 and therefore approved his application. 
This included information from credit reference agencies. When they offered the increased 
limit, Mr M couldve opted out, but didnt. They said Mr M had chosen to use the credit limit 
and explained how the account worked.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said M&S had acted fairly. She couldnt 
see any evidence that Mr M was in financial difficulty  and made the payments each month. 
When the limit was increased in May 2018, she could see that M&S completed checks which 
showed he was earning £39,000 a year, and Mr Ms total debts, including M&S, were 
£1,000. His utilisation of the M&S limit was also acceptable at 53%, and hed paid more than 
the minimum monthly amount in the period leading up to the limit increase.
Mr M didnt agree. He showed us his bank statements for the period between 2013 and 
2018. He said his income was low and he was permanently in overdraft on his bank account. 
Therefore, M&S shouldve done more checks. He asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether M&S 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
In Mr Ms case, I think its fair to say that the limits of £1,100 (October 2013) and £2,500 
(May 2018) were fairly modest  so M&S checks could be less than if the limits were higher.
Mr M applied for the card in October 2013  which is more than six years before he 
complained. So, Ive considered whether we can look at this aspect of his complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules 
covering complaints, known as DISP rules (DISP 2.8.2). They state that we cant consider a 
complaint if its referred to us more than six years after the event complained about, or if 
later, three years from the point from which the complainant ought reasonably to have been 
aware they had cause to complain.
Mr M told us that until recently, he thought it was his fault that hed borrowed from M&S and 
didnt know the lender shouldve checked affordability before lending him money. It was only 
recently he found that out. This brings his complaint within our jurisdiction under the second 
part of the rules and so, in those circumstances, I think we can look at the issue of the card 
in 2013.
That said, M&S told us that their records arent complete because of the time lapse since 
2013. The showed us evidence that a credit assessment was completed, and credit 
searches made. Mr M showed us his credit report and the oldest entry is in 2015  when a 
credit card was repaid and closed. While this isnt conclusive evidence, it does suggest that 
he didnt have large debt problems before 2015  as if he did, Id have expected to see 
several other credit agreements in place. I looked at his M&S statements for around the time 
the card was issued. In November 2013 and December 2013  just after the issue of the 
card  Mr Ms balance was £664 debit and £897 debit respectively  within the limit of 
£1,100. Monthly payments were being made. So, there doesnt appear to be any sign of 
immediate problems then  which I wouldve expected there to be if the right checks hadnt 
been made.
Turning to the increase in the limit in May 2018  this is the crux of Mr Ms complaint. I can 
see that M&S completed their checks. These showed that Mr Ms monthly payments were 
being made on time, and usually about twice the minimum amount needed. And in the 
months leading up to the increase, utilisation of Mr Ms limit was only 53%. They could see 
that he didnt have any other debt problems as there were only total debts of about £1,000  
including the M&S card. And M&S could see that there wasnt any problem in making 
payments to any other credit facilities. On Mr Ms credit report, there werent any other credit 
agreements showing at that time  so it looked like the M&S card was the only borrowing he 
had. There werent any CCJs or defaults showing on his records. And  its fair to note that 
Mr M couldve opted out of the increase that M&S offered but didnt. So, for me, all that 
shows that M&S checks were reasonable and proportionate.Mr M sent to us his bank statements  and these showed that he did go into overdraft in 
2013, and again in 2018 but only from time to time.  So, I dont think these showed he was in 
financial difficulty. And  in any case, we wouldnt expect a lender to ask to see bank 
statements unless there was a reason to do so  and based on what M&S could see, I dont 
consider they needed to.
And so, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr M  I think that the checks that M&S 
completed were fair and proportionate, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman