DRN-2530382
The complaint
 Mr B complains that the conditional sale agreement he entered into with 
Clydesdale Financial Service Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance - 
BPF) for a car was misrepresented to him
What happened
In March 2017 Mr B attended a dealership looking for a suitable car. He says he went to 
the garage on three separate occasions, the first was to test drive the car, the second to 
discuss and complete the paperwork and finally to collect the car.
Mr B says that he had a detailed discussion with the salesperson about what he required 
the car for, and the number of miles he would be driving each year. He says he explained 
about his commute to work and agreed with the salesperson that a 20,000 miles per year 
allowance would be suitable. Mr B agreed to enter into a two-year conditional sale 
agreement with BPF for the car. At the end of the agreement Mr M could either return the 
car, use it as a part exchange on another car or pay off the outstanding lump sum and own 
it.
Mr B says that he recalls there was a computer glitch at the time the paperwork was 
being prepared and, instead of signing the final paperwork, he was asked to sign a 
placeholder agreement, which contained the usual mileage allowance of 8,000 miles 
per year. Mr B signed this, but says he wasnt given a copy by the salesperson and, 
although he was told the agreement would be amended, no other copy was provided to 
him.
In April 2019, Mr B returned the car. He had driven a round 40,000 miles in it since he had 
acquired it. He says he was shocked to receive, in May 2019, an invoice for £3,550 for 
excess mileage from BPF. Mr B was also charged around £1,300 for damage that was 
found on the car that was considered to be beyond fair wear and tear. He complained to 
BPF.
BPF reduced the end of contract charges for the damage found on the car to £75. It 
said that, taking into account the value placed on the car by a third-party company 
which was recognised as providing the industry standard for valuations, the car had 
reached a sales price £75 lower that what would be expected for the same car in 
average condition.
However, BPF didnt uphold his complaint about the excess mileage charge. It said Mr B 
had signed the agreement which set out the 8,000 miles per year allowance and so was 
bound by it. The excess mileage fee had been calculated in line with the agreements 
terms and conditions.
Mr B disagreed with the view taken by BPF and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be partially upheld.
Our investigator said that, although Mr B had provided copies of insurance policies which 
confirmed that he intended to use the car for around 20,000 miles per year, he didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to show there had been a misrepresentation by the 
salesperson that had induced Mr B to take out the agreement. This was because it wasnt 
possible to know what had been said at the dealership and the agreement clearly set out 
the annual mileage allowance was 8,000 which Mr B had signed.
BPF had said that only one quote was generated for Mr B and that this was for an annual 
mileage allowance of 8.000. There was no evidence a quote for other mileage 
allowances had been generated. Our investigator noted that when Mr B had first 
complained he said he hadnt signed an agreement at all. Later Mr B said that he had 
been given a placeholder agreement and been told the mileage allowance would be 
amended.
Our investigator said that in respect of the placeholder agreement he thought it would 
have been reasonable to expect Mr B to ensure that the right mileage was shown. He also 
thought that a higher mileage allowance would have incurred a more expensive monthly 
payment under the agreement so, although Mr B was being asked to pay a lump sum 
now, he had had lower payments for the life of the agreement.
Our investigator said he thought the £75 charge for the condition of the car when it was 
handed back was fair. He accepted that the initial end of contract charges of £1,300 were 
likely to have been excessive, taking into account the age of the car and that it had a 
previous owner to Mr B. But, looking at the CAP value, the amount the car had fetched 
when sold together with the inspection report that had been provided, he thought this 
amount was reasonable as the car had sustained some damage which would be 
considered beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr B hadnt received the end of contract charges for around six weeks after handing the 
car back. Our investigator said this delay would have caused Mr B unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience, as Mr B would have assumed that he had nothing to pay after 
returning the car. Mr B was also informed, via text messages, that these outstanding 
charges may have an impact on his credit rating if not paid. Our investigator said he 
thought that was unfair as these charges were outside the contractual monthly payment.
Our investigator said that, looking at the late notification of the charges and the text 
messages, compensation of £200 for Mr B would be fair. He also said any adverse 
information relating to this agreement that had been recorded on Mr Bs credit file by 
BPF should be removed.
BPF agreed with out investigators recommendation, but Mr B disagreed. He said he had 
never agreed to an annual 8,000-milage allowance and queried why the car had come 
very close to the valuation if the mileage had been excessively high. He also said that 
the £200 compensation that had been suggested was insufficient for the distress hed 
been caused.
As the parties have disagreed the complaint has been passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Mr B said that, because of the number of miles he drives in a year, he always knew he 
would need any agreement he arranged for a car to provide a mileage allowance of 
20,000 miles per year. And, looking at the evidence he had provided about his commute 
to work, together with copies of his insurance policies hed provided, I accepted that he 
was someone who regularly drove more than the average number of miles per year.
I appreciated that Mr B wasnt entirely clear about the circumstances of the agreement at 
the start of his complaint. Mr B said he hadnt changed his story but has simply recalled the details of what happened. As over two years had passed by the time Mr B complained 
I accepted his recall about whether he signed an agreement or not would have been hazy. 
Once Mr B realised he had signed an agreement, his memory was jogged about the 
circumstances. I thought Mr B had been consistent about what he said happened since 
remembering why the agreements mileage allowance hadnt been correctly shown.
So, I accepted what Mr B had said that when he went to the dealership to arrange the 
finance for the car its computer system hadnt been functioning properly. He said hed 
been very clear about the annual mileage allowance he needed and that he had a 
detailed chat with the salesperson about this. However, due to the problem with the IT 
system, he was asked to sign what was referred to as a placeholder agreement. This 
agreement hadnt show the agreed mileage allowance but instead stated 8,000 per year 
which was the norm. Mr B said the salesperson told him to sign this agreement so that 
he could take the car, and that an amended agreement, showing the correct mileage 
term, would then be sent to him.
BPF said only one quote was generated for Mr B when he visited the dealership, and 
this was for a financial agreement containing a mileage allowance set at 8,000. It said 
Mr B signed this which showed hed accepted the terms and conditions.
When Mr B returned the car, at the end of the agreement, he had travelled around 
40,000 additional miles, rather than the permitted 16,000, meaning that he had incurred 
a substantial excess mileage charge. Looking at the number of miles Mr B had used the 
car for, I thought it was reasonable to find that Mr B had presumed the mileage 
allowance under the agreement was 20,000 for each year he had the car.
Mr B said that the agreement was misrepresented to him as he was told the agreement 
hed signed would be amended to reflect the agreed mileage allowance. Looking at this 
part of Mr B's complaint, I needed to be satisfied that the dealer  probably  told Mr B 
something that wasn't true, and that the untrue statement on its own had induced him to 
take out this conditional sale agreement. If I accepted there'd been a misrepresentation, 
then the appropriate remedy would be to put Mr B back in the position he would've been 
in if the misrepresentation hadn't been made.
As I was satisfied  Mr B was a high mileage  driver,  and that he had been  clear  from the 
outset  what  he needed  from the agreement  in respect  of the mileage  allowance,  then 
I didnt  think  it was likely  he would  have  agreed  a lower  mileage  limit knowing  that he 
would  go over that by a significant  amount  and then face excess  mileage  charges.  
Although  I couldnt  know  what  had been  said between  Mr B and the salesperson,  I 
thought  it was more  likely  than not that there  was an issue  printing  off the agreement  
and that Mr B was told that the mileage  allowance  would  be amended  after he had 
signed  it. In light of this, I thought  Mr B had been induced  to sign the agreement.  I didnt  
think  he would  have  accepted  the agreement  with an annual  mileage  allowance  of 
8,000,  as this wasnt  what  he wanted  or needed.  So, I thought  it was likely  the 
agreement  was misrepresented  and, to put Mr B back  in the position  he should  be, I 
intended  to ask BPF to cancel  the outstanding  invoice  for the excess  mileage.
Id seen that BPF had accepted that it hadnt raised the end of contract charges in a 
timely manner, and that this delay would have caused Mr B unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. It had agreed £200 compensation was fair and reasonable.
However, Mr B said he should receive more compensation due to the stress this had put 
him under. While I appreciated Mr B had been upset over the outstanding invoices for the 
end of contract charges, I did think he could have done more to help himself. Mr B was 
told he would receive, and so was expecting, an amended agreement. He was aware he had signed an agreement with the incorrect mileage allowance, but I hadnt seen any 
evidence that hed chased this up or made any enquiries about it. Id also seen hed made 
contact with BPF during the lifetime of the agreement for other reasons, so I thought it was 
reasonable to consider he knew how to make contact. I therefore thought it was  
reasonable to have expected him to do more about getting the agreement amended to 
reflect what had been agreed at the dealership. So, I didnt think it was fair to ask BPF to 
pay compensation over the distress caused by receiving the excess mileage charges. I 
think that the £200 compensation agreed by BPF was fair to reflect the impact the late 
sending of the end of contract charges had on him and I wasnt asking for the 
compensation to be increased.
Mr B had queried the price the car reached when it was sold and has objected to the 
£75 charged to him for its condition. I thought the agreement was clear that Mr B was 
expected to keep the car in a good condition. The agreement was also clear that Mr B 
would be liable if the car sustained any damage outside of fair wear and tear. Looking 
at the inspection report prepared when the car was returned by Mr B, I was satisfied 
the car was in average condition as opposed to good. There were a number of issues 
found on the car such as excessive scuffs to the bumper, a tear in the front seat cover, 
poor paint repairs and a missing puncture kit. And while I accepted the original charges 
were likely to be excessive, I thought Mr B would have been liable for some of damage 
found as things like the missing puncture kit and the seat cover would be considered 
beyond fair wear and tear.
I thought BPF had acted fairly by reducing the damage invoice for Mr B by taking the 
value for the car in an average condition and then deducting what the car actually 
fetched. So, I thought that the £75 charge for the damage to the car was reasonable. 
Had the car been in a good condition then I think its fair to have expected it to have had 
a higher value and fetched a higher price when sold. So, I wasnt intending to ask BPF to 
remove this charge.
For the reasons given above, Im intended to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. And 
asked BPF to do the following:
Cancel the outstanding invoice for the excess mileage charge.
Remove any adverse information about this excess mileage charge from 
Mr Bs credit file.
Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay in receiving the end of contract charges.
Mr B has agreed with my view. BPF says that it thinks the cancelling of the excess mileage 
invoice was unfair as had the agreement allowed a limit of 20,000 miles per year it would 
have cost Mr B more than hed actually paid. However, it says that as a gesture of goodwill it 
will agree to my recommendation to settle the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. I appreciate BPF considers cancelling the excess mileage 
charge unfair, but I still think this agreement was misrepresented to Mr B and he would 
never have entered into it if hed known the true mileage limit that had been applied. Mr B 
believed the agreement allowed him a mileage limit of 20,000 per year. It wasnt Mr Bs fault 
that the agreement was costed for an 8,000 miles per year limit and so although he may 
have ended up paying less than he would have done for an agreement with a higher mileage limit this wasnt Mr Bs fault. Mr B had been clear what he wanted and needed in regard to 
the mileage allowance for the life of the agreement. He thought that the agreement he 
signed had a 20,000 mile per year limit. So I dont think it would be fair to now require him to 
pay more for the agreement than what was discussed and agreed at the time he entered into 
it. 
So, for the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
 I require BPF to do the following:
Cancel the outstanding invoice for the excess mileage charge.
Remove any adverse information about this excess mileage charge from 
Mr Bs credit file.
Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delay in receiving the end of contract charges.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint and I require 
Clydesdale Financial Service Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to do the 
following:
Cancel the outstanding invoice for the excess mileage charge.
Remove any adverse information about this excess mileage charge from Mr Bs 
credit file.
   Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay in receiving the end of contract charges
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman