DRN-2758490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited (trading as Charter 
Savings Bank) offered them lower rates when their bond was due to mature than what was 
subsequently available on its website. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs C took out a 1 year fixed rate postal bond, with a maturity date of 
23 August 2020. 
On 31 July 2020 Charter Savings Bank wrote to Mr and Mrs C to explain the options they 
had available. These included:
A 1 year fixed rate account with an interest rate of 0.91% AER. 
A 2 year fixed rate account with an interest rate of 1.06% AER.
An easy access postal saver account with an interest rate of 0.50% AER. 
Transfer to a Charter Savings Bank account or another bank account. 
Mr and Mrs C were required to submit their maturity options form at least 5 calendar days 
before the maturity date  in other words by 18 August 2020. On 11 August 2020 Mr and 
Mrs C completed the form and chose to invest the matured funds in the 2 year fixed rate 
account. 
On 20 August 2020 Charter Savings Bank changed the rate it offered on its 2 year fixed rate 
account to 1.31% AER. However, this did not automatically apply to Mr and Mrs Cs choice. 
On 25 August 2020, Mr and Mrs C complained. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she felt that Charter Savings Bank hadnt done anything wrong. She said:
Charter Savings Bank had appropriately written to Mr and Mrs C to explain the 
options available to them well in advance of the maturity date for the bond. 
Among these options, Mr and Mrs C couldve chosen to withdraw the money to a 
bank account or to an easy access savings account.
Mr and Mrs C chose a two year fixed rate account. 
The investigator didnt agree it was unfair for Charter Savings Bank to have required 
a response five days in advance of maturity, rather than two. 
She didnt think Charter Savings Bank was required to individually contact Mr and 
Mrs C to let them know about other rates it was offering  and she thought that its 
invitation to Mr and Mrs C to check its website was sufficient to alert them that there 
may be other rates available. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary, he said:
He felt the situation had arisen because they had been asked to make a decision on 
the reinvestment of funds in advance of these funds being available for 
reinvestment. 
He didnt think it was fair that he received a lower rate on the two year fixed term 
simply because of when he responded  when by the time the funds were 
transferred, Charter Savings Bank was offering a better rate. 
Other banks offered the higher rate of interest if it changed between the moment of 
applying for an account and the moment the funds are deposited. 
He thought that changing the timeframe for replying from two to five calendar days 
before maturity was a change to the terms and conditions which he didnt agree to. 
He concluded by saying that they had acted at all times in good faith, but now found 
themselves locked into a disadvantaged situation. 
Charter Savings Bank agreed with the investigator, but also made the following points:
It didnt agree that the change to the timescale for responding (two to five days) 
made any difference to Mr and Mrs C, given that he made no contact in between 
submitting his maturity options and the account maturing. 
It didnt agree Mr and Mrs C were disadvantaged  they couldve withdrawn their 
funds, chosen a different bond, accessed the website to see other accounts 
available, or done nothing and their money wouldve been transferred to an easy 
access savings account. Mr and Mrs C chose the two year fixed rate bond, and that 
is the product they were provided. 
It didnt agree Mr Cs evidence of another bank offering a different service was 
relevant. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I have some sympathy for the detailed points Mr C has made, and I do understand the 
substance of why he thinks he and his wife have been unfairly treated. In essence, he 
believes that it wouldve been good customer service for Charter Savings Bank to have 
automatically offered them the higher rate it was offering new customers at the point their 
money was transferred to the new 2 year fixed term account  irrespective of the fact that 
they had chosen a specific account with a specific rate of interest beforehand. 
But my role doesnt involve telling Charter Savings Bank how to improve its customer service 
 I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs C were unfairly treated and, crucially, whether 
Charter Savings Bank did anything at the time which caused Mr and Mrs C to lose money, or 
receive less of a return than they otherwise might have. 
On that basis, I should be clear with Mr and Mrs C there is no obligation for Charter Savings 
Bank to automatically offer them a better rate than the one they chose, if it decided to 
subsequently change it. It has explained that the rates which it offers customers at maturity are generated in 
advance, but are generally in line with their product range on sale to all their customers. I 
dont think thats inherently unreasonable, and I dont think its unfair on Mr and Mrs C. 
And my understanding is that once they received the maturity options letter with the different 
accounts Charter Savings Bank was offering, it would have honoured those rates for Mr and 
Mrs C even if it subsequently lowered them for new customers. That means that I dont think 
Mr and Mrs C were being treated unfairly  ultimately, if Charter Savings Bank had chosen 
to offer a lower rate, it wouldve honoured the higher rate theyd chosen for two years.  
In addition, whilst I can understand why Mr C feels like theyve been disadvantaged, Im not 
persuaded the change in timeframe wouldve in fact made any difference to his actions. 
He submitted the maturity options form on 11 August 2020, well in advance of the maturity 
date on 23 August. Im not persuaded, on balance, that had he been given an extra 3 days, 
Mr C wouldve decided to wait a little longer or chosen a different product. And given that 
Charter Savings Bank made its change to the rate on 20 August, but Mr C didnt raise the 
issue until 25 August, Im satisfied that having a few extra days wouldve made no difference 
to the product Mr C decided to choose. 
Finally, I agree with the investigator that Charter Savings Banks two letters are clear. The 
first one in particular says that:
Mr and Mrs C could choose from an account on the maturity options form, or from a 
different account on Charter Savings Banks website. They were specifically informed 
that Charter Savings Bank constantly reviewed its products, and as a consequence, 
they may find others which they preferred on its website. 
Mr and Mrs C did not have to choose an alternative product  they could choose to 
have money transferred to a bank account, or to an easy access saver account with 
no withdrawal restrictions (and this would also be the option if they chose to do 
nothing).
In my view, this means that Charter Savings Bank was clear with Mr and Mrs C about their 
available options, clear that they didnt need to take any action if they didnt want to, and 
clear that there might be other products on its website which they might prefer over the 
options in the letter. In other words, Mr and Mrs C couldve chosen to wait to make their 
reinvestment decision once the funds were available, rather than doing so in advance. 
And given that Mr and Mrs C did in fact choose a fixed two year account, and were aware 
that this meant not being able to have access to that money for the full period, Im not 
persuaded its unfair for Charter Savings Bank to now hold them to that commitment. I dont 
agree they were misled into making that choice and, as Ive said above, Im satisfied their 
options were clearly laid out  including the option of withdrawing the money or having it 
transferred to a flexible savings account that would allow withdrawals (albeit with a much 
lower rate of interest). 
Given all these circumstances, I dont agree Mr and Mrs C were treated unfairly. And whilst I 
understand why they believe Charter Savings Bank ought to amend its policy and 
automatically offer updated rates to its customers regardless of when they apply for a 
product, I dont consider thats something I can interfere with or direct it to do.
I understand my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but I 
hope they can understand the reasons why Ive reached it  and that Ive done so only after 
careful consideration of the evidence and the particular circumstances of this case. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman