DRN-1777079
The complaint
Mr B is has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc has reported late payments on his credit 
file despite him not having an agreed overdraft facility.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all of them 
again here. Instead Ill give a summary and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr B has a Bank of Scotland account that he uses for online purchases. Hes explained that 
he has an account with another bank which he uses as his main account, but he pays 
money into his Bank of Scotland account when he wants to make an online purchase, to 
avoid sharing his main bank account details over the internet. 
Mr B received a letter from Bank of Scotland in June 2019 explaining that it had stopped 
charging him bank charges due to the history of his account. This prompted Mr B to look into 
things further, at which point he discovered his account balance was overdrawn. He then 
realised that as a result, this information had been reported to the credit reference agencies.
Mr B says that Bank of Scotland didnt notify him of the status of his account. He believes 
that Bank of Scotland is unfair to report the fact his account was over its limit to the credit 
reference agencies. I note he says this has affected the type of mortgage hes been able to 
obtain, and he says this has impacted him financially as he says hes had to take a more 
expensive mortgage deal as a result. 
Mr B also says that Bank of Scotland didnt send him a recording of a call that he requested. 
Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland had acted unfairly by reporting adverse 
information about his account to the credit reference agencies, so she didnt think Bank of 
Scotland needed to do anything to put things right in relation to that. But she said Bank of 
Scotland should pay Mr B £50 compensation as it didnt send the call recording that Mr B 
asked for. 
Mr B didnt agree as he wants Bank of Scotland to amend his credit report as a resolution to 
the complaint. So the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr B didnt have an agreed overdraft limit. So the account would be considered in 
excess of its limit if the balance fell below zero. Mr Bs balance fell below zero on 25 
May 2018 and remained so for 6 days. This happened again on 6 June 2018 for 8 
days, and during that time a number of transactions took it further over its limit. The 
account exceeded its limit again on 2 July 2018, and this time the account remained 
over its limit until 2 September 2018. This happened again on 18 March 2019, and 
the account wasnt brought back into credit until 11 June 2019. Each time the 
account exceeded its limit this was caused by Mr B making purchases online using 
his debit card. 
For this account, the terms and conditions say that Bank of Scotland may stop a 
payment that a customer requests (for example a debit card transaction). But theres 
no guarantee that this will happen  and it remains the responsibility of the customer 
to check they have enough money in their account before making transactions. Card 
payments arent always checked with the bank before theyre approved, which can 
lead to more money being debited than is in the account. This is fairly common 
practice for this type of payment, and whilst I understand Mr Bs frustration, I dont 
think its unfair that this happened.
Bank of Scotland reported late payments to the credit reference agencies for July 
and August 2018, and April and May 2019. Banks are required to report accurate 
information to credit reference agencies, and as Ive explained above, its clear that 
Mr Bs account was indeed over its limit for the months that Bank of Scotland has 
reported. Bank of Scotland has also provided an extract of its systems, which it says 
shows how the late payment markers were applied. It has explained that following a 
month of the account being over its limit, the late payment marker was then applied 
in the following month, to the previous month. The screen shot shows four numbers 
which are two instances of consecutive 1 and a 2 figures. Although I cant attribute 
these to specific months, it seems right, as Mr Bs account was over its limit twice for 
two full months. So I think the 1 indicates the first month, and the 2 indicates the 
second month. Whilst I know Mr B doesnt agree, and I appreciate it has had an 
impact on him financially, I dont think Bank of Scotland was wrong or unreasonable 
to report to the credit reference agencies in the way it did. 
Ive seen evidence of a text message that Bank of Scotland sent to Mr B on 18 March 
2019, on the day his account exceeded its limit on one of the occasions. The 
message told Mr B that the account was over its limit and he needed to pay money in 
by 14:30 that day. Bank of Scotland has also provided evidence that it sent four 
further messages sent to Mr B in April and May 2019, in which it asked Mr B to 
contact it to discuss his account. Mr B didnt react to these messages. Ive also seen 
that Mr Bs account is set to receive paper bank statements, so he shouldve been 
aware of the position of his account. Whilst I understand Mr B feels that Bank of 
Scotland should have contacted him by phone to let him know his account was over 
its limit, I still dont think its fair to hold Bank of Scotland responsible for whats 
happened. I understand Mr B mayve found a phone call helpful, but Bank of 
Scotland isnt obliged to do that. And as Ive said, Mr B is ultimately responsible for 
managing his account. 
Bank of Scotland didnt follow up on Mr Bs request on 20 June 2020 for a recording 
of a call he had with its complaint handler. It told us that the request hadnt been 
passed to its Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) team, although it had enough information to have done so. So I agree that its fair for Bank of Scotland to 
compensate Mr B with £50 to acknowledge its error in relation to this. 
Having considered everything, I dont agree that Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly by 
reporting adverse information to Mr Bs credit file. But Ive concluded that Bank of Scotland 
didnt do what it should have in relation to providing Mr B with a recording of the phone call 
he asked for. 
During his complaint Mr B suggested that Bank of Scotland treated him differently to other 
customers, because he speaks a different language and due to the colour of his skin. This is 
a serious point for Mr B to raise and Ive thought very carefully about it. Our investigator also 
asked Mr B to give us some more information about this.
From the further information Mr B provided, I can certainly understand Mr Bs strength of 
feeling about this point. But having looked at all the information, I dont think Bank of 
Scotland has discriminated against Mr B. Nor do I think Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in the way it has dealt with him or handled his complaint. Its clear that Mr B 
isnt happy with the level of service Bank of Scotland provided, but I havent seen anything to 
make me think that the service was discriminatory, or related to his skin colour or the 
language he speaks. Theres no mention of these things from either party, and nor is there 
any reason for me to think this was ever considered. I know its unlikely Mr B will agree with 
my findings on this, but I hope that it helps him to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into his concerns about it. 
Having considered everything, I partially uphold this complaint in relation to Bank of Scotland 
not providing the call recording Mr B requested. But I dont uphold the point related to the 
adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file.
Putting things right
I require Bank of Scotland Plc to pay the £50 compensation that our investigator 
recommended. If Bank of Scotland has already paid this, it doesnt need to pay anything 
further. Bank of Scotland should also provide the call recording that Mr B requested on 20 
June 2020.
I do not require Bank of Scotland to take any action in relation to Mr Bs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and I require Bank of Scotland Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman