DRN-2915049
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial 
Services (FCA or the lender) was irresponsible to have agreed car finance for her in 
July 2017. Mrs M also says it didnt treat her fairly when she had problems making her 
repayments.
What happened
FCA agreed a hire-purchase agreement for Mrs M in July 2017, through an intermediary, 
in order for her to acquire a car. Under the agreement FCA would own the car unless 
Mrs M opted to purchase it at the end of the agreement. In the meantime, until the 
finance was repaid, Mrs M was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
The cash price of the car (as per the finance agreement) was £19,562 and Mrs M paid a 
deposit of £1,000. She borrowed the balance of £18,562 which, plus £6,444 interest and 
charges, brought the total owing under the agreement to £26,006. This was to be repaid 
by an initial instalment of £397, followed by 47 instalments of the same. The optional final 
purchase amount was £5,945. (Ive rounded all figures to the nearest pound.)
Mrs M also had the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement at any point and 
returning the car. This option would limit her total liability to half the amount owing, in other 
words £13,003 if shed taken reasonable care of the car.
Mrs M says she offered two vehicles in part-exchange to the selling dealership  her 
existing car and her sons. Shes provided a sales order which shows a cash price of 
£19,562 including £4,388 of negative equity in total, so it seems both vehicles had 
outstanding finance owing. Mrs Ms existing car finance was with FCA.
Mrs M missed payments from July 2018 and fell into arrears. She made an arrangement 
to repay these alongside her usual monthly payment but didnt manage to maintain this. 
Mrs M cleared the arrears in early 2019 with a repayment of £1,900 but has since fallen 
into arrears again.
Mrs M said that FCA didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending to her. It didnt ask 
for evidence of her income or expenses and, she says, her credit record showed missed 
payments. Mrs M also complains that FCA didnt treat her fairly when she told it she was 
having difficulty meeting her monthly repayments. She asked to extend the agreement 
and pay a lower amount, but this wasnt accepted and she ended up trying to pay more 
than her original repayment each month to clear her arrears.
The agreement hasnt yet been fully repaid. FCA said that Mrs M had repaid a total of
£8,794 as of February this year. I dont know if shes paid anything since.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld because they concluded FCA had lent irresponsibly. They recommended FCA 
terminate the agreement with nothing further for Mrs M to pay, and that she returns the 
car. They also recommended that FCA retain the payments Mrs M made in return for 
having had the use of the car.
FCA disagreed that it was irresponsible to lend. It said Mrs M owes over £16,000 under 
the agreement and that the car is worth considerably less. Mrs M agreed with our 
investigators conclusions but not with their recommendation about how to put things 
right for her. Mrs M disputes that there was an outstanding balance to pay on her existing 
car (which she part-exchanged to begin this agreement) and feels that putting things right 
for her shouldnt result in her being left with neither a car nor a refund of some of her 
payments.
The case came to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional 
decision on the 27 May 2021 upholding Mrs Ms complaint because I found FCA had been 
irresponsible when it agreed finance for her. I thought the fairest way to resolve the 
complaint was along the lines our investigator had set out. Both parties agreed with my 
provisional conclusion but not with my proposed redress.
FCA said in response We will agree with part of the ruling and we will pick up the negative 
equity from the agreement Mrs [M] held with us, however, not the other amount of negative 
equity from her sons vehicle which had nothing to do with us. I understand that this would 
result in Mrs M returning the car and remaining in debt to FCA for several thousand pounds.
Mrs M says that it is not true that there was negative equity in the car she part-exchanged 
but that it had a guaranteed value of £3,450. She understood that this equity would reduce 
the amount of money she was borrowing, not add to it and, as mentioned, feels that any 
redress should either allow her to keep her current car or be refunded this money.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Ive included an extract from my provisional decision as an 
appendix to this decision as it sets out my reasons for upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
Both parties have accepted this provisional conclusion and I am continuing to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint because Ive found that FCA was irresponsible to have entered into 
the agreement with her. 
I have carefully considered what both parties have said about how things should be put 
right for Mrs M. Having done so, I remain of the view that the fairest thing to do here is for 
FCA to collect the car with nothing further for Mrs M to pay and for it to retain her 
payments to date. 
Mrs M said in response to my provisional decision I was told there was a guaranteed 
value of £3,450 in my Peugeot P*****T and there was £1,290 approx outstanding on my 
finance, I was paying £258 approx each month. And was due for final payment in 
November 2017. I had different options at the end of my finance agreement and could 
hand the car back, pay the balance or use the guaranteed value for another car.
£4,752.98 was the finance of my sons car Y*****W this was added to the outstanding 
finance of mine £4,752.98 plus £1,290 which gives the figure of £6,044.57 as indicated on 
the HP agreement and is at the bottom of the order form agreement in pen from [the 
dealership]. I was told the value of my car (£3,450) was coming off the agreement and the 
reason it was written on the bottom of the order form was because they forgot to include it. 
I was told over £15,000 had gone to finance.Mrs M had provided the order form for her current car which shows one car (her sons) 
listed as being part-exchanged. A hand-written addendum shows that her car was also 
being part-exchanged, with a value of £3,450 and a settlement figure of £4,752.98. She 
feels the ommission of her car as part-exchange in the digitally produced form is evidence 
that she was misinformed about the agreement. Id considered this in my provisional 
decision, however, and noted that The sales order Mrs M has from the dealership shows 
the cash price of the car as £15,173 plus a combined total negative equity from two 
vehicles of £4,388.
Mrs M says she was shocked when she understood that the total agreement was for 
£26,006, following her subject access request to FCA. But the hire purchase agreement 
which she signed clearly shows that she was agreeing to borrow an amount of £18,562, 
pay a deposit of £1,000 with a total repayable of £26,006. If Mrs M wasnt expecting to pay 
this then I think she would have raised a query at the time.  
Ive set out the relevant figures as I understand them in a table below for clarity. Car 1 
refers to Mrs Ms existing car and Car 2 refers to her that of her son.
Car 1 Car 2 Total
Outstanding finance owed £4,753 £6,385 £11,138
Amount offered by the dealership in part-exchange £3,450 £3,300 £6,750
Amount left owing £1,303 £3,085 £4,388
Mrs M is correct in that she was offered £3,450 for her car, in otherwords this was the 
value the dealership was happy to pay for it. However, she still owed more than this to 
settle her existing finance agreement, which she needed to do in full to own the car. 
Altogether, Mrs M was offered £6,750 in part exchange for the two vehicles, resulting in 
the additional amount owing of £4,388 being included in this agreement. 
So, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont consider Mrs M suffered a loss here 
in terms of surrendering an asset she owned which had a positive net value. In fact, I 
found that rolling over her existing finance agreement instead of allowing her to voluntarily 
teminate it wasnt fair to her as it increased the amount she borrowed.  
Id said in my provisional decision that Mrs M hadnt managed to meet her repayments 
under the agreement and isnt up to date. I understand that shes paid £8,794 in total and 
so hasnt reached the point at which she can voluntarily terminate the agreement, which 
is just over £13,000. I noted that this half-way point would have been lower had the 
agreement not included negative equity.
FCA says it now accepts that it wasnt fair to include Mrs Ms negative equity in this 
agreement when it could have allowed her to voluntarily terminate her existing agreement 
with nothing further to pay. It says it would be happy to write-off this amount of the debt 
but no more, which would leave Mrs M without a car and also still in debt to FCA.
Having carefully reconsidered everything, I think FCA should end the agreement now, 
with nothing more for Mrs M to pay. I remain of the view that this is as close as possible to 
putting Mrs M back into the position she was in before the agreement was taken out. At 
that point Mrs M was paying for a car on finance but, as mentioned, still had several 
thousand pounds to pay on it and could have ended that agreement voluntarily with 
nothing left to pay on return of the car. Mrs M was also not in the position of paying 
someone elses debt. Irrespective of whether FCA knew the true extent of the negative 
equity included in the agreement, it was happy to agree that level of credit for Mrs M at that time and I think it would be perverse now to consider this as a separate debt that 
Mrs M needs to satisfy. 
Mrs M feels its unfair to be left with no car, having had her complaint upheld. I can 
understand her strength of feeling on the matter but I dont consider it would be fair in this 
case to direct the lender to waive all the outstanding sums and, in addition, to leave the car 
to her. I think the amount shes paid so far is a fair reflection of her use of the car to date but 
not enough that it would be fair for her to keep the car, given it had a cash price of over 
£15,000. 
This is my final decision on the matter, which will be legally binding if Mrs M accepts it. If 
Mrs M wishes to retain her current car and can come to a mutually agreed settlement figure 
with FCA, she can of course choose not to accept this final decision. 
Putting things right
In summary, FCA should:
End the agreement at no further cost to Mrs M; and
Collect the car at its expense; and
Remove any negative information about the agreement recorded on her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint about FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services and it 
needs to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
PROVISIONAL DECISION EXTRACT
FCA needed to check that Mrs M could afford to meet her repayments sustainably before 
agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could repay the credit out of 
her usual means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty 
or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the 
credit and Mrs Ms circumstances, and FCA needed to take proper account of the 
information it gathered.
FCA also needed to take a proportionate and considered approach to borrowers arrears 
difficulties. So when Mrs M fell into arrears, FCA should have given her the opportunity to 
repay the arrears, potentially deferring payment or accepting token payments for a time. The 
overarching requirement for FCA is that it needed to pay due regard to Mrs Ms interests and 
treat her fairly.
With this in mind, my main considerations are:
did FCA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ms application to satisfy itself that she would be able to make her 
repayments in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
did FCA treat Mrs M unfairly in any other way?
Did FCA complete reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown?
FCA says that Mrs M was an existing customer who had a good payment history with it. It 
says the selling dealership quoted her salary as £28,000, which it checked using a credit 
reference agency (CRA) tool. It estimated Mrs Ms expenditure using statistical information 
from a national database and checked her credit file. It said the defaults it could see on her 
record were insignificant and had been paid in full. Finally, FCA says that it didnt know 
someone elses negative equity had been included in her agreement.
I can understand why FCA might have had a positive view of another application for credit 
from Mrs M, given what its said about their relationship history. However, this doesnt mean 
to say that it fulfilled its obligation to take reasonable and proportionate steps to check Mrs M 
could sustainably meet her repayments for this agreement over the term. I note the monthly 
repayments on her existing agreement were less than two thirds the planned repayments on 
this one and this agreement was for four years.
As I mentioned above, the rules and guidance stipulated that FCA needed to check Mrs M 
could meet her repayments sustainably and its checks needed to be proportionate. So Ive 
thought about whether its checks were sufficient in Mrs Ms circumstances, and Ive 
concluded that there were indications in the information FCA had gathered that its estimation 
of Mrs Ms available income was likely to fall short.
FCA says that Mrs M gave false information in her application but hasnt provided any 
income or expenditure figures apart from Mrs Ms gross annual income of £28,000. It says it 
wouldnt have agreed to lend to Mrs M if she hadnt said her income was at this level. Mrs M 
says she was completely honest with the sales person about her circumstances. Clearly, 
without any record of what was said at the time, its difficult to decide this point one way or 
the other.
FCA also says it checked Mrs Ms income using a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) tool. It 
hasnt explained what this tool took into consideration, for example, bank account turnover or a sense-check on salary in relation to job description. Nevertheless, it seems FCA was 
happy to rely on this at the time.
The lender says it used statistical information to estimate what Mrs M spent monthly on living 
costs (though I cant see that it took steps to understand her housing costs). FCAs credit file 
check shows that Mrs M had over £9,000 of revolving credit so her estimated expenses 
might not be typical. Furthermore, this level of debt seems to be at odds with its estimated 
disposable income figure of almost £800 a month.
Given these circumstances and that Mrs M was taking on significant credit, including 
refinancing an existing agreement, I think a reasonable and proportionate response would 
have been to look into her finances in more detail to understand whether she could afford to 
sustainably meet a repayment of almost £400 a month over the term of the agreement. This 
amounted to over 20% of her declared net monthly income (I estimate this to be about 
£1,850 assuming no salary deductions).
FCA says that Mrs M signed a legal binding agreement confirming that she was happy with 
the monthly payments and by signing the agreement she agreed to the terms and 
conditions. While I can understand FCAs perspective, Im afraid I cant agree this 
discharges its obligation to Mrs M to assess the risk to her of not being able to sustainably 
meet the repayments.
Concluding that FCA ought to have done more before lending to Mrs M doesnt automatically 
mean her complaint succeeds. To determine this, Ive considered what information a 
proportionate check would likely have yielded. Ive looked through the income slips and bank 
statements Mrs M provided and considered what shes said about the matter. I can see from 
the bank statements that Mrs Ms monthly income comprised wages and benefits and was, 
on average, less than £1,700 in the months leading up to the agreement. With a minimum of 
about £1,450 of regular monthly expenses, its clear that Mrs M would not be able to afford 
the repayments. I appreciate that she managed to meet her repayments for about a year 
before letting FCA know that she was having difficulty, but I dont think successfully meeting 
repayments automatically means she was managing to do so in a sustainable way.
Altogether, Ive concluded, as our investigator did, that had FCA enquired further into Mrs 
Ms finances, it was likely to have learnt that she wasnt in a position to repay further credit 
sustainably and so it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to her.
Did FCA treat Mrs M unfairly in any other way?
As mentioned, this agreement included negative equity from two existing car finance 
agreements: one between Mrs M and FCA and the other was Mrs Ms sons. Shes 
explained that he couldnt afford his repayments though hed recently taken on his car and 
they had gone together to the dealership to discuss his options. Mrs M says that she felt 
obliged to take out this agreement to help her son.
FCA says that Mrs M could have voluntarily terminated her existing agreement and returned 
her car with nothing further to pay but it says that this option wasnt discussed at the time. 
The lender also says that it didnt know a second car had been included in the part exchange 
which increased the level of negative equity in the agreement.
FCA provided its invoice from the dealership which shows the cash price of the car as just 
over £19,500 including total negative equity of £1,453 due to an existing financial agreement 
(Mrs Ms car with FCA). The sales order Mrs M has from the dealership shows the cash 
price of the car as £15,173 plus a combined total negative equity from two vehicles of 
£4,388. FCAs customer notes record that the loan to value ratio for the agreement was initially over limit and also that the CAP valuation for the car was less than £15,000. Having 
reviewed all the available information, I think FCA should have reasonably suspected that 
there was more negative equity in the agreement than rolled over from its existing 
agreement with Mrs M.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that FCA got something wrong when it accepted an 
application with negative equity. However, in this case I don't think it paid due regard to Mrs 
Ms best interests when it rolled over its current agreement with her when she had the option 
to voluntarily terminate it. Furthermore, it consolidated someone elses debt into the 
agreement which meant that altogether Mrs M ended up owing over £26,000 on a vehicle 
valued at less than £15,000. The customer notes show that about a year into the agreement 
Mrs M enquired about exchanging the car for a cheaper model with lower repayments. FCA 
declined this request because of the level of negative equity involved. So I think this level of 
negative equity limited Mrs Ms options and prolonged her indebtedness to FCA.
Mrs M says that FCA didnt treat her fairly when she struggled with repayments. She says 
she asked to reduce her payments to a more affordable monthly amount but it only allowed 
her to do this for two months and she then needed to make up the arrears over six months.
FCA has provided its customer records and I can see from these that Mrs M told it in August 
2018 that shed recently had a change of circumstances and couldnt keep up her payments. 
FCA said then that there was too much negative equity in the agreement to allow a part- 
exchange for a cheaper car. It accepted reduced payments for two months, Mrs M made a 
large payment (£1,900) in January 2019 and started a six month repayment plan of just over 
£500 a month in March. According to the customer records, this level of repayment was at 
Mrs Ms request. Mrs M made three payments through this arrangement and then her direct 
debit was returned in June 2019. There is a hiatus in the customer contact records and no 
further payments were recorded. It seems contact resumed in late 2019 and early 2020, 
around the time Mrs M complained about irresponsible lending.
Mrs M has provided copies of emails to FCA from early 2020 in which shes offered to pay
£250 a month and said that shed offered this previously. However, from the information I 
have, it doesnt seem to me that either party was taking active steps to put an affordable 
repayment plan in place. I cant see that FCA asked Mrs M at any point for income and 
expenditure information to assess what she could afford to repay. But the information I have 
from Mrs M isnt enough to persuade me that her lack of payments were solely because FCA 
were refusing to work with her to agree an affordable repayment plan. Altogether, I dont 
think FCA treated Mrs M unfairly when she fell into difficulty with her repayments.
What FCA should do to put things right
Our investigator recommended that FCA keeps all the payments Mrs M made over the years 
and takes back the car. I understand that as of February 2021 Mrs M has paid £8,794 to 
FCA in total, including her deposit. I am not aware that she has made any further payments. 
FCA disagreed with the redress our investigator recommended and said that Mrs M still 
owes it an amount of over £16,000 secured on a car which is now worth about £5,000. I can 
understand the lenders perspective on this however, Ive explained above, I think this 
outcome was foreseeable when it entered into an agreement with this level of negative 
equity and the likelihood that Mrs M would not be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
Notwithstanding this, in coming to a decision on the fairest way to put things right for Mrs M, 
any calculation of redress would not be affected by either the level of profit or the size of the 
loss FCA has made on a loan that we have concluded should not have been given.Mrs M also disagrees with the recommended redress. She says that in order to put things 
right for her and put her back into the position she was in before the finance was agreed, she 
ought to be refunded the money shes paid so far or be allowed to keep the car. She feels 
its unfair if FCA retains the payments shes made and shes left without a car. Mrs M also 
says that she understood that she owed about £1,000 on her existing car at the time as it 
was coming to the end of the finance term and so thought that there was some positive net 
value in it. So she feels any redress proposed should reflect this loss to her also.
Let me start by saying that Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms existing agreement with FCA which 
shows she not only owed about six monthly instalments (of £238) but also needed to make a 
final large payment of £3,708 in order to own the car. Shed need to do this in order to be 
able to offer it as part-exchange. Mrs Ms credit report around the time shows an outstanding 
balance of £5,137 for this account. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M but from the 
information Ive seen there wasnt any value in her car and she still owed about £5,000 for it. 
I understand the balance to pay on her sons car was over £6,000. Altogether she was 
offered £6,750 in part exchange for the two vehicles, resulting in the additional amount of 
£4,388 being included in this agreement. So I dont consider shes suffered a loss here in 
terms of surrendering an asset she owned which had a positive net value.
Ive found that FCA was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mrs M, so she shouldnt lose 
out because of this by, for example, paying interest and charges on the money she 
borrowed. If Mrs M was up-to-date with her repayments, it wouldnt be fair for FCA to keep 
everything shes paid because the monthly repayments would include interest and charges. 
On the other hand, if Mrs M was up-to-date with her repayments it wouldnt be fair to simply 
refund everything shed paid under the agreement because she used that money to hire the 
car for almost four years. 
This Services general approach to redress in these sorts of cases is for the lender to retain 
a portion of the payments made to essentially cover the usage of the car and to refund the 
rest. There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage charge might be. 
Considerations might include the amount of interest charged on the agreement, how its 
structured, the borrowers overall usage of the car and that they would have incurred costs to 
stay mobile if they hadnt entered into this agreement.
In this case, Mrs M hasnt managed to meet her repayments under the agreement and isnt 
up to date  as mentioned shes paid £8,794 in total and so hasnt reached the point at 
which she can voluntarily terminate the agreement as it stands, which is just over £13,000. I 
note that this half-way point would have been lower had the agreement not included 
negative equity.
Mrs Ms had the use of the car since July 2017, almost 46 months to date, which equates to 
a cost of at least £190 a month. Altogether, I think this is a fair cost to her to have had the 
use of the car.
In order to put Mrs M back in to the position she was in before the agreement was taken out, 
I think FCA should end the agreement now, with nothing more for Mrs M to pay. I appreciate 
this means shes left without a vehicle but she would no longer be in debt to FCA. I think this 
a close as possible to putting her back into the position she was in before the agreement 
was taken out. She was paying for a car then on finance, but as mentioned still had several 
thousand pounds to pay on it and could have ended that agreement with nothing left to pay.
In summary, FCA should:
End the agreement with at no further cost to Mrs M; and
Collect the car at its expense; andRemove any negative information about the agreement recorded on her credit file.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman