DRN-2075706
The complaint
Mr N complains Bamboo Limited has caused him to suffer both financial and non-financial 
losses as a result of being accepted as a guarantor for a loan taken out by a third party (the 
borrower).
What happened
The borrower was approved for two loans by Bamboo Limited which Mr N was accepted as 
the guarantor for. The first of these loans was taken out in July 2017; and the second being 
in January 2018. In September 2019 Bamboo Limited registered a default against Mr N for 
the above loans.
 Mr N has three heads of complaint:
He should not have been accepted as a guarantor by Bamboo Limited;
He has suffered financial losses in the region of £38,000 as a result; and
He has suffered significant distress and inconvenience as a result of Bamboo 
Limiteds actions.
Bamboo Limited investigated Mr Ns complaint. Whilst Bamboo Limited did not agree that it 
acted incorrectly in accepting Mr N as a guarantor in one of its final responses it agreed to 
remove him from the indemnity and guarantee agreement attached to the borrowers loan. It 
also offered him £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator considered Mr Ns complaint and didnt think Bamboo Limited needed to do 
anything further in relation to it. He said Bamboo Limited had removed Mr N as a guarantor 
and had explained that it may take some time for this information to be removed from his 
credit file. He felt it had therefore acted fairly in relation to this aspect of Mr Ns complaint. 
Our investigator felt that based on what she had seen she didnt think it was reasonable for 
Bamboo Limited to pay Mr N the £38,000 financial loss he was claiming. He also felt the 
£100 offered by Bamboo Limited covered the non-financial loss Mr N had described. 
Mr N disagreed with these findings and has provided further evidence to support his 
complaint points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by thanking Mr N for providing the information he has to our service. It is clear he 
has undertaken a lot of time and effort to support his complaint. I can assure him Ive 
carefully considered all of his evidence, points of complaint and information he has provided. 
For ease of reference Ill deal with Mr Ns headings of complaint separately.
Mr N shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor by Bamboo Limited
This matter seems to be resolved in so far as Bamboo Limited has removed Mr N as a 
guarantor from the borrowers agreements. Mr N has highlighted that he thinks Bamboo 
Limiteds practices in relation to his approval as a guarantor are unethical and wanted our 
service to take a further review of its practices. Im afraid that is not the role of our service. 
Our services remit is to investigate individual complaints between consumers and regulated 
financial businesses. Where were satisfied errors on individual complaints have occurred, 
we can instruct the relevant business to correct them. 
In this instance the outcome reached  the removal of Mr N from the agreement  is what we 
would normally expect to happen. As such no further action is required from Bamboo Limited 
in relation to this.
Bamboo Limited has also confirmed it will request the removal of negative information in 
relation to this loan from Mr Ns credit file. It has correctly said this takes a period of time to 
action; but has made the relevant requests. Im therefore satisfied that no further finding 
(outside of agreeing Bamboo Limited shouldnt have accepted Mr N as a guarantor) is 
warranted in this instance as it will not materially impact the outcome or redress in relation to 
this aspect of Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr Ns financial loss
Mr N says the financial loss he suffered was caused by the fact he was unable to obtain 
further lending in order to carry out property development works. Mr N says his credit file 
was excellent before Bamboo Limited accepted him as a guarantor; and that its actions 
resulted in his credit score rating falling. Mr N says by not being able to complete the 
necessary property works he has lost out on the associated profits. He has provided 
evidence which he says demonstrates these lost profits would have been £38,000.
I can make awards for financial loss but to do so, Id need to be persuaded that its more 
likely than not any losses were as a result of something the business did wrong. Id also 
need to be persuaded the amount the consumer was claiming was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. For Mr Ns complaint, I dont think I can fairly conclude the 
losses he says hes suffered are as a consequence of what Bamboo Limited did wrong 
(accepting he shouldnt have been made guarantor of the loans in question). I say this 
because:
Mr N never actually applied for a loan, so I dont know he wouldnt have been able to 
get the loan he says he wanted. While he says there was no point in applying 
because his credit rating was too low, its possible an application would have been 
successful. And as such he would have been able to go ahead with the property 
development, despite the negative information about Bamboo Limited loans on his 
credit file. 
Even if I accept Mr N wouldnt have been successful if hed applied for a loan, I dont 
think its as clear cut as Mr N suggests, that this would have been as a result solely 
because of the information recorded on his credit file about the two Bamboo Limited 
loans. Mr Ns credit file shows that he had a number of other debts and Mr N has 
told us he was in a debt management plan until May 2018. The total debt at this 
point was relatively high; and from what I can see covered a number of different 
products outside of the guarantor loan from Bamboo Limited. Mr N has explained 
that he was able to successfully challenge some of these debts, but a number of 
them remained.While Mr N has provided detailed evidence to support the missed profits hes 
claiming, these werent guaranteed. I accept that if Mr N been able to get a loan and 
everything gone the way he expected, he might have made profits hes claiming for. 
But its just as likely there would have been unforeseen expenses or challenges, 
which might have meant things didnt turn out as hed hoped, and these profits 
wouldnt have been realised.
Overall, for the reasons above, theres just too much uncertainty about what would have 
happened if Bamboo Limited hadnt accepted Mr N as guarantor, for me to conclude it would 
be fair and reasonable for Bamboo Limited to pay Mr N the compensation he wants. Im not 
persuaded that its more likely than not he wasnt able to go ahead with the property 
development, solely because Bamboo Limited accepted him as guarantor. And Im not 
persuaded that its more likely than not he would have made the profits he says he would 
have. So, I wont be telling Bamboo Limited to pay Mr N £38,000.
Mr Ns non-financial loss
Mr N also complains that Bamboo Limiteds actions caused him a significant degree of non-
financial harm (what we refer to as distress and inconvenience). Mr N says that Bamboo 
Limited harassed him; and that he and his family have suffered over the past couple of 
years.
Bamboo Limited has made a gesture of goodwill of £100 to reflect the overall level of service 
it has provided. And based on what all parties have presented Im satisfied this is an 
adequate award. I can see that Bamboo Limited did make contact with Mr N in attempt to 
make payments. Our service would expect a lender to contact borrowers and guarantors 
when payments are due. And looking through the information that has been provided I can 
see this is what happened. I appreciate Mr N feels this level of contact was excessive and 
says he was harassed; however, Ive not seen evidence which persuades me this was the 
case. Whilst I agree it is unpleasant to receive chaser communication, I dont think it is 
unusual or unwarranted in cases like these. 
Overall, I know this outcome will disappoint Mr N. He has made his complaint points very 
passionately; and I appreciate the depth of emotion he has in this complaint. Whilst I know 
he will remain dissatisfied I hope my explanation clarifies the outcome. 
My final decision
Bamboo Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Bamboo Limited should pay Mr N £100 if it has not already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman