DRN-4117713
The complaint
Mr S complains that Cia Insurance Services Limited mis-sold his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy included an unoccupancy condition. That meant the insurer wouldnt cover 
damage for a property that hadnt been lived in for more than 60 days - unless the 
property was inspected every seven days and, during the winter, the water supply 
was turned off or a continuous temperature was kept.
As our investigator has explained, the unoccupancy condition is not unusual for these 
types of policies. However, given that a claim could be turned down if Mr S didnt 
comply with this, I think this ought to have been made clear to him in his policy 
documents. Ive read the policy schedules for both 2021-2022 and 2022-2023, and 
Im satisfied they explained that an endorsement applied to the policy, and then set 
out the unoccupancy condition clearly.
When the policy renewed, Mr S told Cia that no one was living at the property and a 
sale had fallen through. He said he hadnt decided whether to keep it up for sale, or 
rent it out again. Whilst it might have been helpful for Cia to have reminded him of the 
unoccupancy condition, I dont think Cia would have understood from this 
conversation that Mr S was unaware of it. His policy had been in place with that 
particular insurer for a year already, and his policy schedule in the previous year had 
highlighted the unoccupancy condition. There was no change to this at renewal.
If Cia had recommended a policy with a new insurer with their own unoccupancy 
condition, then I likely would have expected Cia to have asked Mr S more information 
about the property not being lived in, and then make him aware of such a condition. 
But given that the existing policy was simply renewing, and Mr S had already been 
made aware of that insurers unoccupancy condition, I dont think Cia needed to do 
anything further here.  
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr S, I dont find that Cia mis-sold this 
policy at renewal. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman