DRN-2973412
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank, passed information 
about him to a debt purchased company that was incorrect.
What happened
Mr O received letters from a debt purchasing company which referenced an account Mr O 
believed hed been removed from several years earlier - and which since then had been in 
his ex-wifes sole name. Mr O wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Yorkshire Bank looked at Mr Os complaint, but they noted that they had clear indicators that 
Mr O was a joint holder of the account when the account was sold to the debt purchasing 
company in 2012 and also noted that they had no record of any request for Mr O to be 
removed from the account. Because of this, Yorkshire Bank didnt feel that theyd done 
anything wrong, and they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Yorkshire Banks response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also noted that Mr O 
appeared to have remained as a joint account holder up to the point that the account was 
sold to the debt purchasing company, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have come as a shock to Mr O to have received letters referring 
to a bank account Mr O thought hed been removed from many years previously.
However, having reviewed all the information provided to me, Im satisfied that Yorkshire 
Bank have been able to reasonably demonstrate that Mr O remained named on the account 
up to the point that it was sold to the debt purchasing company in 2012. And I say this 
because Yorkshire Bank have been able to provide letters sent out on the account that list 
Mr O as a named account holder up until the point that the account sold and also that they 
have no record of any request to remove Mr O from that account.
Mr O has provided this service with details of his divorce settlement, which refer to a 
Yorkshire Bank account becoming the responsibility of his now ex-wife as part of that 
settlement. However, the account number quoted on the divorce settlement doesnt match 
the account number for which Mr O has been contacted by the debt purchasing company, 
and Yorkshire Bank have confirmed that the account referenced on the divorce settlement 
was another account which was closed around the period of the divorce.
Mr Os divorce occurred several years before the account being complained about was sold 
to the debt purchasing company  and this account remained open and remained with Mr O 
as one of the named account holders.
As such, given that Yorkshire Bank have no record of any request to remove Mr O from this 
account, I cant reasonably censure Yorkshire Bank for maintaining Mr O on that account up 
to and including the point where the account was sold to the debt purchasing company.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr O was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Yorkshire Bank to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr O can understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman