DRN-2354028
The complaint
Miss G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly removed her 
promotional interest rate following a late payment.
What happened
Miss G says Virgin Money attempted to take her monthly credit card account payment on 
Sunday 5 January 2020 by direct debit which was a non-working day. She says her salary 
hadnt been paid into her account as it was a Sunday, and as a result Virgin Money recorded 
the payment as rejected and then removed her interest free promotional rate. Miss G says 
this mistake has had a significant financial impact on her and would like the previous interest 
rate reinstated and any interest she has already paid refunded to her.
Virgin Money says the payment was due on 5 January 2020, but it did not attempt collection 
that day. It says it waited until the next working day before attempting the direct debit request 
which was rejected by Miss Gs bank. Virgin Money says it acted in line with account terms 
and conditions by removing a promotional interest rate in circumstances where there was a 
late or missed payment.
Miss G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money acted in line with agreed terms and conditions by removing the 
promotional interest rate when Miss Gs bank rejected the direct debit and there was a late 
payment. The investigator thought Virgin Moneys records showed the payment attempt was 
on a working day and recommended Miss G obtain evidence from her bank in the form of 
statements to provide any evidence of Virgin Money attempting the direct debit request on 
the day before it said it had.
Miss G says she cant provide her account statements but says Virgin Moneys decision was 
unreasonable and unfair and questions why it didnt report the late payment to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Miss G will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at Miss Gs credit card account terms and conditions which I think she would 
have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear 
that a promotional interest rate offer may be withdrawn if there is a late or missed payment. 
So, I dont think there is any doubt Virgin Money is entitled to withdraw the interest rate offer 
here when there was a late payment, even if it was by just a few days, and has acted in line 
with those agreed terms and conditions.
I can see from Virgin Moneys records that although the direct debit payment was due on a 
weekend it actually tried to take the payment on a working day. So, Im satisfied Virgin 
Money hasnt made a mistake by doing so and I think the problem was caused by Miss G 
not having enough money in her account to allow the direct debit to be processed. I dont 
think Miss G has explained when her salary was paid into her bank account and she hasnt 
provided her account statements which would have shown that information as well as the 
date Virgin Money attempted the direct debit. So, I cant fairly conclude Virgin Money made a 
mistake about the date it attempted the direct debit and it would be for Miss Gs bank to 
explain why it rejected the direct debit if there was enough money in the account.
I appreciate Miss G says Virgin Moneys decision was unfair and disproportionate and that 
her credit file didnt contain details of a late payment. Im satisfied Virgin Money has 
explained that it wouldnt report the late payment to the CRAs, and I dont think that point is 
relevant in any event. And Im satisfied its up to Virgin Money when exercising its 
commercial judgement to decide what its position is on late payments and how they affect 
promotional interest rates. I have made clear that I find Miss G agreed to those terms and 
conditions when the account was opened and its not our role to tell a business to change 
such terms and conditions.
Overall, for the reasons I have explained, I find Virgin Money hasnt made a mistake and so I 
cant fairly order it to refund the interest Miss G has paid or re-instate her promotional 
interest rate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman