DRN-1478005
The complaint
Miss D says Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform (G Ltd) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about 2 payday loans which G Ltd provided to Miss D between November 
2017 and January 2018. Miss Ds borrowing history with G Ltd is as follows:
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 26/11/2017 12/12/2017 3 £250.00 £139.33
2 03/01/2018 28/02/2018 3 £500.00 £278.67
 
Our adjudicator rejected Miss Ds complaint. Miss D disagreed with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
G Ltd needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that G Ltd should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, I dont think we reach that point 
here, in Miss Ds case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that G Ltd was required to establish 
whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
G Ltd told us its internet process asked for details of Miss Ds income, her expenditure and 
her other financial commitments before considering each loan in 2017 and 2018. 
For loan 1, Miss Ds highest repayment was around £139.33 per month. Ive seen a record 
of the information Miss D provided when she completed the loan application. At the time, 
Miss D said her income was £1,600 per month. She also told G Ltd that her total monthly 
outgoings were around £1,325. This would give her a disposable income of around £275 per 
month. So based on the information G Ltd had at the time of the loan application, I think loan 
1 was affordable for her.
For loan 2, Miss Ds highest repayment was around £278.67. Her declared monthly income 
was £2,383. And her disposable income after deducting her total monthly outgoings was 
£1,058. So based on the information G Ltd had at the time of the loan application, again I 
think loan 2 was affordable for her.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely G Ltd was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss D might have been having at that time. And due to the amounts 
borrowed, her declared circumstances at the time and her lending history with G Ltd, I 
havent seen anything that would have prompted it to investigate Miss Ds circumstances 
further. So I think it was reasonable for G Ltd to rely on the information it obtained to make 
its lending decisions.
Taking everything into account, I think the assessment checks G Ltd did for Miss Ds 2 loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend to Miss D were reasonable. So Im not 
upholding Miss Ds complaint about them. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman