DRN-2195324
The complaint
Mr S complains that TFS Loans Limited agreed a loan for him which was unaffordable.
What happened
In November 2015, Mr S applied for a guarantor loan with TFS of £7,500. It was to be repaid 
in 60 monthly instalments of approximately £279 and the total amount repayable including 
interest was £16,755. The loan was to be used to repay some other debts, and £2,600 to put 
aside for new appliances for a forthcoming house move. TFS agreed the loan but Mr S says 
that it didnt carry out enough checks to ensure it was affordable for him. Had it done so he 
says, the loan wouldnt have been agreed.
TFS says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its usual process, 
based on the information Mr S provided and it had no concerns about his ability to afford the 
loan. Mr S disagreed and referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said the checks carried out by TFS 
ought to have led it to believe he was in financial difficulties. Our investigator noted that the 
loan increased Mr Ss indebtedness and in view of the evident financial difficulties he was 
experiencing, it shouldnt have been agreed. He asked TFS to put matters right.
Mr S agreed with our investigators findings, but TFS didnt. It argued the loan had improved 
Mr Ss situation and questioned what evidence there was for the loan having increased his 
indebtedness. As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr S irresponsibly by 
carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions I need 
to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS make a fair lending decision? 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
TFS was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the checks is for TFS to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause 
difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In other words, it wasnt about TFS assessing 
the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on 
Mr S. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential of TFS to 
pursue the guarantor instead of Mr S doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, but it 
could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the loan, 
the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S was in a 
position to sustainably repay the loan?
TFS asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and reviewed his credit 
file. It says it carried out a number of checks to confirm what Mr S had told it. TFS says as a 
result of the checks it carried out, it believes the loan was affordable for him. But I dont think 
its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks; Id expect it to think about the information 
it gathers when it reaches its decision to lend.
Mr Ss credit file shows numerous defaulted accounts over the three or four years prior to his 
application for this loan. TFS said in its final response it had noted the defaults, but that Mr S 
had satisfactorily explained their existence; hed said hed had difficulties with a job a 
number of years ago which have now been resolved. It said that recently his accounts were 
being perfectly maintained and hed explained any historic issues. 
But Mr S had also said that he was now in a great job which I have had for two years now. 
So its not clear to me why  if Mr S had been in a good job for two years and had resolved 
his earlier issues - he had seven defaulted accounts within one year of the application, three 
of which were registered in 2015  the same year as the application. Two of the defaults I 
mention are for electricity and gas accounts which are generally regarded as essential 
expenditure. I think the number and nature of the defaults registered in the last year 
especially ought to have given TFS cause to think about whether Mr S was able to maintain 
his important day to day living expenses. I dont think these can simply be put down to 
historic difficulties. 
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 1.3. provides examples of 
scenarios which may indicate a consumer is in financial difficulties. These include failing to 
meet repayments on a credit card, adverse entries on a credit file which are not in dispute 
and the inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills).
In the year leading up to Mr Ss application, his credit file shows defaults to a credit card, and 
utility providers such as gas, electricity and several communication providers. And Mr S has 
given no indication to us or TFS (from what it has said) that there are any disputes with 
these providers. So I think its reasonable to consider that TFS ought to have considered that 
Mr S was in some financial difficulties. 
CONC 5.3.1(4)(b) says, it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Mr S provided payslips to demonstrate his income and, based on what he told it, TFS 
calculated he had over £260 monthly disposable income even if he failed to repay the debts 
he said he was planning to. And if those debts were repaid, TFS calculated hed have over 
£540 disposable income each month. 
Ive looked carefully at the expenditure details Mr S provided to TFS. I note that Mr S has a 
partner who doesnt work and two dependants. Based on what he told it, TFS calculated that 
he spent £368 per month on food and drink. But at the time of the application, the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) suggests a weekly figure of £29 per person per week for 
food eaten at home which equates to just over £500 per month. 
It is of course possible that Mr S spent less than the average suggested by ONS. But given 
the circumstances here and that hed defaulted on essential expenditure and other credit 
agreements in the recent past, I think TFS should have questioned this further rather than 
simply accept what Mr S told it about his expenditure.
It follows that I dont think TFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in its 
assessment of Mr Ss income and expenditure.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
Ive already said that I dont think TFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  
especially regarding his income and expenditure. I acknowledge though that it carried out a 
number of worthwhile checks and I cant say for sure what further checks would have shown.
My concern here is that while TFS carried out a number of checks, I dont think it gave 
sufficient thought to what it found. I refer back to my comments regarding financial difficulties 
as an example. I think the information it gathered from Mr Ss credit file ought to have led it 
to identify that Mr S was very likely to be in difficulties. I dont think it was right for TFS to 
lend new money to Mr S.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
If the loan had been purely for debt consolidation, I can see good reasons why this might 
have been helpful for Mr S as it would have simplified his debt situation and reduced his 
repayments (if the debts were repaid). But that wasnt the case here. Mr S was applying for  
and received  £2,600 new money which increased his indebtedness by that amount. The 
amount he owed overall had increased.The debts Mr S was looking to repay with this loan included a hire purchase agreement, 
three phone bills and a short-term loan. The hire purchase agreement is showing on his 
credit file as up to date. With the exception of a couple of current accounts, it is the only 
agreement showing as active on his credit file  everything else is either defaulted or 
settled. There are current defaults for more than three phone bills and a few credit cards. 
The short-term loan isnt shown. Generally defaulted debts dont attract interest, but Mr S 
had applied for a loan priced at 44.9% APR. It doesnt appear to have been beneficial for 
him to take a loan at this price to repay debts which no longer attract interest.
TFS has argued the loan improved Mr Ss financial situation and provided a credit report 
which it says shows he owed less money a few years after the loan than he did when he 
took it out. While this has no bearing on the original decision to lend, I do feel I need to 
address the argument as it is part of the reason TFS asked for my decision. 
The credit report does indeed show less active lending for Mr S, so I can see why TFS has 
suggested his situation is improved. But the report also shows numerous new accounts 
taken out which have subsequently defaulted so have not been included in the active lending 
balance. Some of the active accounts are showing as being in arrears too. This shows me 
that Mr Ss difficulties have continued after the loan was agreed. Just because Mr S 
managed to make repayments for the first year or so, it doesnt automatically mean the loan 
was affordable or appropriate. Furthermore, the new money TFS lent Mr S would have been 
sufficient to sustain his repayments for almost 10 months.
Overall, while I cant say for certain what further checks would have shown TFS, I think the 
checks that it did undertake  if given due consideration  ought to have led it to refuse to 
lend to Mr S. I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully read and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to this 
complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr S in some other way. 
But I do think TFS should have refused to lend to Mr S, so I am upholding his complaint 
about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr S in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. But Mr S was given the loan and has used the money. So, I think TFS 
should:
calculate the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
the loan and deduct the repayments hes made.
oIf this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, the overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). * 
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr S to pay, TFS should let 
him know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable payment 
plan with him. I remind TFS of its obligation to treat customers fairly. 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan.*If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. TFS Loans Limited 
should put things right for him in the way Ive set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman