DRN-3624379
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated her unfairly while she was experiencing 
financial difficulties.
 
What happened
Mrs M had a loan with Lloyds that had run for several years. Mrs M has told us shes been 
through a particularly difficult period from 2019 that resulted in a drop in income and financial 
difficulties. 
Lloyds approved payment holidays under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Payment 
Deferral Guidance between April and June then August to October 2020. Towards the end of 
the second payment holiday Ms M spoke with Lloyds and it agreed a three month 
arrangement that meant no payments were due. 
In January 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mrs M as the arrangement had ended. Lloyds went on to 
send Mrs M a default notice in February 2021. When Mrs M spoke with Lloyds it put another 
arrangement in place that meant no payments were due until the end of May 2021. Lloyds 
agreed 30 day collections holds in May, June and July 2021.  
Mrs M has told us she was able to borrow funds from her son and used them to repay the 
outstanding balance at the end of July 2021. 
Mrs M complained to Lloyds and has told us she found the process of making contact over 
the phone to be humiliating and difficult. Mrs M has explained the nature of her work meant 
she wasnt always able to speak privately and call wait times were unacceptable. Lloyds paid 
Mrs M £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lloyds had dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs M asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above but I want to assure all 
parties Ive read and considered everything theyve provided. And Id like to assure Mrs M in 
particular that Ive read everything shes told us about her circumstances leading up to the 
complaint and taken the information into account when reaching my decision. 
I can see Mrs M has experienced some very difficult times in recent years and that her 
options became limited by circumstances outside of her control. When a customer 
experiences financial difficulties, lenders are obliged to treat them positively and 
sympathetically. That can mean theres a range of options open to businesses when trying to 
support customers. In this case, I can see Lloyds used a total of six months of payment 
holidays under Covid guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority.
When the payment holiday period ended, Lloyds agreed to place a further three months 
collections hold on Mrs Ms loan. I understand that meant Mrs M had to spend a lot of time 
on the phone with Lloyds and answer some difficult questions. I also accept that there was 
some repetition in the questions Lloyds asked. But, I think that reflects the fact Mrs Ms 
circumstances couldve changed and level of support Lloyds was looking to provide. 
Lloyds sent Mrs M a default notice in February 2021 and I understand that was upsetting. 
But the collections hold had ended in January 2021 and there was no agreement with Mrs M 
to either extend the arrangement or for payments to begin. Given the level of arrears on Mrs 
Ms loan at that point, I think it was fair for Lloyds to send Mrs M a default notice. 
Mrs M went on to contact Lloyds and it agreed another three month collections hold. Again, I 
appreciate this meant Mrs M had to answer detailed questions about her finances, but Im 
satisfied that was so Lloyds could ensure it was providing appropriate support. Further 
collections holds were place on Mrs Ms account in May, June and July 2021 when she 
asked for a settlement quote. In my view, Lloyds handled Mrs Ms account fairly and offered 
tailored support in the form of collections holds. In my view, Lloyds did provide positive and 
sympathetic support to Mrs M. 
Call wait times were clearly an issue and I dont doubt what Mrs M has told us about how 
long it took to get through. But Lloyds has explained that lots of customers required support 
during this time due to the pandemic. And the nature of the calls, along with its own staffing 
issues and pressures from the pandemic, meant call wait times were much higher. I 
understand that caused additional inconvenience to Mrs M at an already difficult time. But I 
dont think it would be fair to tell Lloyds to pay a settlement in the circumstances. 
Mrs M continued to make payments to her loan account during the period of payment 
holidays and collections holds. Mrs M has explained it took a long time to get through to 
make a payment each month. But Lloyds wrote to Mrs M when it applied the payment 
holidays and collections notes to say no payments were required. And I havent seen 
anything that says Mrs M was required to make payments over the phone. Lloyds 
statements and letters give information about the ways customers can make a payment. And 
they include online, by post, by phone, in branch, by direct debit or standing order. 
In July 2021 Mrs M asked for a settlement figure and cleared the balance of her loan. Mrs M 
has explained she borrowed the money from her son. I can see how upsetting Mrs M found 
the situation and I understand there were factors outsider of her control at play. But Im 
satisfied Lloyds had provided positive and sympathetic support over an extended period. At 
that stage Im satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to review the arrangements and take a 
decision to default the loan without repayment of the arrears. So whilst I dont doubt how 
distressing the situation was for Mrs M, Im satisfied Lloyds treated her fairly. 
Lloyds paid Mrs M £25 to apologise for the distress caused. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M as 
I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But as Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with her 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman