DRN-3353945
The complaint
Miss M complains that Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline) gave her loans she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
Miss M took six home collected loans between February 2015 and April 2017. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 11/02/2015 03/06/205 30 £15.00
2 £400.00 03/06/2015 02/12/2015 30 £20.00
3 £400.00 01/12/2015 11/05/2016 30 £20.00
4 £400.00 10/05/2016 02/11/2016 30 £20.00
5 £500.00 01/11/2016 18/04/2017 30 £25.00
6 £500.00 18/04/2017 written off 30 £25.00
Skyline has said that Miss M had some problems repaying her final loan and in October 
2018 it took the decision to write off the balance of £441.
Following Miss Ms complaint, Skyline issued its final response letter. Skyline concluded that 
it had carried out proportionate checks before advancing these loans and it wasnt upholding 
the complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
One of our adjudicators considered Miss Ms complaint. She concluded it was reasonable 
for Skyline to have granted loans 1  3. But for loan 4, the adjudicator thought Skyline ought 
to have carried out further checks into Miss Ms financial circumstances. It didnt do this, but 
neither had Miss M provided a copy of her bank statements or her credit file so the 
adjudicator wasnt able to say what Skyline may have seen, by carrying out further checks. 
Overall, the adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about loans 1  4. 
By loan 5, the adjudicator concluded that the lending was now harmful for Miss M, so this, 
and loan 6 shouldnt have been provided. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment Miss M provided a copy of her credit file. 
Skyline didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, in summary it said:
Miss Ms borrowing didnt always increase with each new loan.
The lending pattern the adjudicator referred to is typical of Home Credit customers 
and this facility is used for life events such as holidays and Christmas.
The loans provide a lower and fixed cost form of credit as opposed to, for example, a 
credit card. 
Skyline quoted some of the regulations and rules that it was required to follow at the 
time and it said it adhered to the rules.  
Skyline said its obligations in the rules was updated in November 2018, and it has 
been confirmed by the industry regulator that the update was made because the 
rules werent clear (before this date). 
Skyline has no evidence that Miss M was having financial difficulties at the time. 
Skyline confirmed that, although it had written off the balance of loan 6 due to it being 
bad debt, this doesnt mean the balance shouldnt be repaid. 
In response, the adjudicator contacted both Miss M and Skyline to explain why the 
comments they had provided hadnt changed her mind about the outcome of the case.  In 
summary she said shed not seen enough from Miss M to say that Skyline was wrong to 
have granted loan 4, so her view on these loans remained the same. 
The adjudicator explained to Skyline that the purpose of the loan cant be confirmed because 
Skyline hadnt provided copies of the actual loan applications and in her mind the purpose of 
the loan should form the bases of a declined or accepted application.  She also explained 
that affordability checks form only part of the assessment, Skyline still needed to be minded 
of the lending relationship. 
She went onto say that Miss Ms credit file, showed that after the final loan was advanced, 
she was having financial difficulties because shed recently had three accounts referred to a 
third-party collection agency because they had been defaulted. 
Finally, the adjudicator clarified with Skyline the redress that she proposed and how it could 
use the refund due from loan 5 to offset any outstanding principal balance it wrote off for 
loan 6. 
Skyline responded to say that there is nothing in the rules or guidance indicating the number 
of loans is an indicator of this. This wasnt defined by Skyline but I believe in this case it is 
referring to the final two loans being unsustainable. Skyline went on to say, that no 
reasoning has been provided to explain why this point was reached at loan 5 rather than 
loan 6. 
Miss M didnt provide any further comments. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Miss M appears to agree with our adjudicators findings about loans 1  3. And following the 
second assessment by the adjudicator which explained loan 4 was also not being upheld no 
further comments were provided. It therefore seems the outcome of these loans is no longer 
in dispute. Although, Ive not made a finding about these loans I have kept these loans in 
mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between Skyline and Miss M.  Instead, this decision will focus on whether Skyline did anything wrong when it granted loans 
5 and 6. 
Skyline, in response to the adjudicators assessment, provided some of the regulations that 
were applicable at this time. It also says that the regulator changed the affordability rules in 
November 2018 because, it accepted that before that date, the rules werent clear. It isnt for 
me to say or to comment on the ultimate reasoning behind the changes to the rules from 
November 2018 all I am able to do is apply the rules that were applicable at the time. 
However, in my view the change in November 2018, didnt significantly altered Skylines 
obligation to carry out a proportionate check. However, for completeness Ive outlined below 
the regulations at the time all of Miss Ms loans were granted. 
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Skyline gave Miss M all of the above loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit 
Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014. 
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
Firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. 
And the most relevant overarching principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as Skyline. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible 
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a 
regulated agreement.
However, in CONC there are references to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) issued 
by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) who were the regulators of this type of lending until the 
FCA took over.
The starting point for the relevant rules in this case is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets 
out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says 
a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2.1 provides some information about where the information can be obtained from.
A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information 
obtained from:
the customer, where appropriate; and
a credit reference agency, here necessary.
[Note: section 55B(3) of CCA]CONC.5.2.3 provides some guidance about what a proportionate check could consider.
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and
proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to 
be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
But CONC is also quite clear in CONC 5.2.4 that:
1) To consider all of the factors set out in CONC 5.2.3 G in all cases is likely to be 
disproportionate.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent 
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial 
situation.
While CONC 5.2.4G(3) goes into some detail about the type of information that a lender may 
wish to gather:
(3) A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use in its
creditworthiness assessment and assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1),which
may, depending on the circumstances, include some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
[Note: paragraph 4.12 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based on what the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment.
[Note: paragraph 4.13, 4.14 and 4.15 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1.6 then goes on to explain what is meant by sustainable:
6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the 
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Thinking about the regulations Ive quoted above, Skyline had to assess the lending to check 
if Miss M could afford to pay back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It 
needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Skylines checks 
couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the size of the repayments, and Miss Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Skyline should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make anyloan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M.
Skyline was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
Loans 5 and 6
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent 
felt the need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for this loan because I 
didnt consider it necessary to do so. But I have commented below on the information that 
Ive seen. 
I also accept, based on the information that Skyline has put together for the Financial 
Ombudsman that it may have believed the weekly loan repayments were affordable for Miss 
M. For both of these loans, Skyline worked out that Miss M had weekly disposable income of 
£46.19 to meet her commitment of £20 per week for loan 5 and £25 for loan 6. 
Skyline says that these loans were likely for lifestyle events such as Christmas. But a copy of 
the loan application forms hasnt been provided so I cant comment on the reason why Miss 
M may have requested these loans. 
Skyline also says that Miss Ms income has been verified but it hasnt provided us any 
evidence to show the documents (such as a wage slip) that it may have asked Miss M to 
produce at the time of these loans being advanced. 
Miss M has provided a copy of her credit report, and it does show that she had problems 
repaying different types of credit including a loan and what looks like a mobile phone 
contract. With at least three of these accounts being passed to a third-party collection agent. 
But, due to how long ago these loans were granted, there isnt really anything in the credit 
report which shows what her financial situation was at the time when loan 5 was advanced, 
which is likely as a result of information dropping off and / or being removed. 
But in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Miss M, Skyline also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Miss M. 
Having looked at the overall pattern of Skylines lending history with Miss M, I agree with our 
adjudicator that at this point in time, Skyline should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. 
I appreciate that Skyline says no reasoning has been provided as to why these loans were 
unstainable and why this point was reached at loan 5 rather than say loan 6. There are a 
number of factors that are considered when thinking about whether the loans are 
unstainable. Examples of, but arent limited to things like, how much is being borrowed, time 
in debt, what the lender knows about the consumer and the overall lending relationship. 
Having considered these factors here, there was enough, in my view by the time loan 5 was 
granted to say the lending was now unsustainable for Miss M and Ive explained why below. 
At this point Skyline ought to have realised Miss M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss M had taken out five loans in around 21 months and she had 
been indebted to Skyline for the entire time. So, Skyline ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss M was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need 
and that her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and her underlying financial 
situation didnt seem to be improving. 
Loan 5 was Miss Ms largest loans to date, a further sign that her indebtedness was 
increasing rather than decreasing and was further evidence that the loans were now 
unsustainable for her. 
As previous loans were repaid Skyline has confirmed these loans were refinanced, 
so Miss M was using some of the advanced money to repay a previous loan. In 
effect, she was borrowing a new loan in order to facilitate the old loan being repaid. 
This was now the fourth time it had happened. Skyline ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss M, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to 
effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me, this is indicative of her 
indebtedness not being sustainable.
By loan 6, Miss Ms weekly repayments were more than 50% larger compared to 
loan one. She started paying £15 per week but was now committed to paying £25 per 
week. So, Miss Ms weekly repayments werent deceasing which suggests that the 
loans werent sustainable for her and her borrowing hadnt decreased over the 
lending relationship.  
Miss M took normally was advanced new loans on the same day Miss M wasnt 
making any real inroads to the amount she owed Skyline. Loan 6 was taken out 26 
months after Miss Ms first. And it was the joint largest loan to date, with the largest 
weekly commitment. Miss M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Skyline over an extended period.
Skyline has also said the pattern of lending of lending isnt unusual for a home credit user. 
But, when thinking about the pattern of lending, Ive considered the rules and regulations 
that I quoted at the start of the decision as well as what unfolded during Miss Ms lending 
relationship. Thinking about all of those together Im satisfied a fair and reasonable outcome 
is to uphold her final two loans. 
I think that Miss M has lost out because Skyline provided her with loan five because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time andthe number of loans and the length of time over which Miss M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall Im intending to uphold the complaint about these loans.  
Finally, in Miss Ms complaint she has said that she has suffered from mental health and 
physical health problems and which the agent was aware of and she said she told Skyline 
about. 
Im sorry to hear this. But Skyline has told the Financial Ombudsman that this was the first it 
had heard about it  implying before the complaint it was unaware of any problems. Skyline 
has asked Miss M to complete a particular form and it will reinvestigate on receipt. Miss M 
may wish to contact Skyline about this.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Skyline should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Skylines liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Skyline shouldnt have given Miss M loans 5 and 6. 
A. Skyline should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Skyline have already refunded.
B. Skyline should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Skyline should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loans. If this results in Miss M 
having made overpayments then Skyline should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Skyline should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Skyline has already written-off. If this results in a surplus, then this should 
be paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance Skyline shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Skyline have already written-off.
E. The overall pattern of Miss Ms borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Skyline should remove these loans entirely from 
Miss Ms credit file. Skyline does not have to remove loan 6 from Miss Ms credit file 
until it has been repaid, but Skyline should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline to deduct tax from this interest. Skyline should 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint in part.
 
Skyline Direct Limited should put things right as direct above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman