DRN-2760844
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) did not reduce the interest rate on his 
mortgage after he ceased letting his property.   
What happened
Mr T had an interest only mortgage with BoS that was taken out around the beginning of 
2008. The mortgage offer shows this was taken out on a residential basis  meaning the 
mortgaged property was intended to be Mr Ts main residence. It also indicates a broker 
advised Mr T when he took out the mortgage.
In March 2008 Mr T wrote to BoS and asked that all correspondence relating to the 
mortgage account be sent to a different address to the mortgaged property.
In 2012 BoS sent Mr T letters asking for clarification around the difference in address. It 
concluded at that time that the mortgaged property was in fact being let. This was 
considered an unauthorised let and, as a result, BoS wrote to Mr T and explained it would be 
charging an added rate of 1.5% to the mortgage, on top of the existing contractual interest 
rate.
This continued for several years. Mr T called BoS in October 2019 to say that the property 
was no longer let. He asked for the added rate to be removed. Mr T was told hed need to 
take certain information into branch before this could be arranged. Mr T took ID documents 
and a utility bill for the property into branch as requested. 
Mr T called BoS several weeks later as hed not received an update. He says he was told 
that different documentation would be needed. Mr T says he obtained this and again 
provided it to a branch.
The added rate was not removed from the mortgage. The mortgaged property was sold in 
March 2020 and the mortgage repaid.
Mr T complained to BoS that hed overpaid interest. He said hed informed BoS that tenant 
had vacated the property in July 2019, but it hadnt removed the added rate from his 
account.
BoS said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as it had no evidence of receiving the 
required information to remove the added rate. Unhappy with this response Mr T asked our 
service to look into his complaint.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. They felt that BoS had made a mistake 
when Mr T had called in October 2019. This was because it hadnt told him that a specific 
document was required at that time. So, he recommended that BoS pay £75 for the 
inconvenience caused by this. But he didnt think it needed to refund any interest charged 
under the added rate. This was because BoS had shown that, for the added rate to be 
removed, it would need to see evidence that Mr T had re-occupied the property. And he 
didnt think the evidence showed that. 
BoS agreed to the investigators suggestion. Mr T didnt think this was fair and asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed again. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage Mr T took out explain that the mortgaged property 
must be used as his main home unless BoS agreed otherwise. And they also explain that, if 
the property is let out, BoS can apply an added rate, above the contractual interest rate, of 
up to 2%. Based on what Ive seen I dont think BoS acted unreasonably when it applied the 
added rate of 1.5% to the mortgage. It appears to have acted in line with the agreed terms 
as the information it had suggested the property was being let. And I can see it informed 
Mr T of this in advance.
Mr T has provided correspondence with his appointed letting agent in May 2019, confirming 
that the tenant was intending to leave the property  confirming that the property was in fact 
let as BoS thought. This correspondence indicated the tenants would be vacating by 15 July 
2019.
Mr T called BoS on 14 October 2019 to discuss the mortgage going back onto a residential 
basis and the added rate being removed. Ive listened to a recording of that call. Mr T was 
told hed need to go into branch with a form of ID and an up to date utility bill  to show that 
the property was again being used on a residential basis. Mr T confirmed the mortgaged 
property was up for sale and that he wasnt living at it, but that the tenant had left. 
BoS has confirmed that an error was made during that call. It has said at that point the agent 
shouldve realised that, as Mr T had confirmed that the tenant had left, a council tax 
exemption was the appropriate evidence needed. Instead this wasnt asked for until Mr T 
called back several weeks later. Which was after he had visited branch and provided the 
information that he understood was required  which I can see he did due to the copies of 
those documents being held by BoS and stamped as received in branch on 22 October 
2019.
I think it also shouldve been clear at that point  as Mr T had said he was not living in the 
property and was in fact selling it  that he wouldnt have met the criteria for the added rate 
to be removed. Ive seen BoS policy regarding added rates and it says they will only be 
removed when proof of re-occupation has been provided. And I think it was clear from what 
Mr T said at the time that this wouldnt be available, as this wasnt what was happening. And 
I think this couldve been explained more clearly to Mr T.
So overall, I think this call, and Mr Ts enquiry, couldve been handled better by BoS.
Ive thought about what the fair way to put things right is. Mr T has said hed like the amount 
he paid because of the added rate to be refunded from when the tenant left the property. But 
I dont think BoS needs to refund this. As Ive already explained, I dont think BoS was wrong 
to apply and charge the added rate. Mr T didnt inform it that the tenant had left, and the 
property was no longer let, until October 2019. So, I dont think it needs to refund the amount 
charged under the added rate before then, as it was applied correctly to the mortgage based 
on the information available. 
And I also dont think BoS needs to refund the additional amount charged between October 
2019 and the sale of the property. The reason for this is that Ive seen evidence that to 
qualify for the added rate to be removed, BoS would need evidence that the property was not let and had been re-occupied by Mr T. This was in line with the terms of the mortgage 
from the point it was granted requiring it to be used as his main home. But from what Mr T 
has said, and the information Ive seen, its clear this isnt what happened. It appears that the 
tenant left the property in July 2019. But Mr T did not re-occupy it at any stage  with all 
correspondence continuing to go to a different address and Mr T confirming the mortgaged 
property was being sold. So, he didnt qualify for the added rate to be removed, in line with 
BoS processes, as he never re-occupied the property. And as a result, I dont think BoS is 
required to refund any of the additional interest charged.
I dont doubt the way that the call was handled has caused Mr T some inconvenience. He 
made a visit to branch as a result of this call, but was given incorrect information about what 
needed to be provided. And if hed correctly been informed he wouldnt have qualified 
anyway for the added rate to be removed, based on the circumstances hed explained, he 
wouldnt have had to make this visit at all. Our investigator recommended that BoS pay £75 
for the inconvenience caused. And taking everything into account, while I know this is likely 
to come as a disappointment to Mr T, I think this recommendation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part.
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr T £75 for the inconvenience caused 
to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman