DRN-3046169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they 
were impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They claimed on their 
policy after their business was impacted by the Governments response to the national 
pandemic. 
NFU turned down their claim. It said the policy primarily covered business interruption 
caused by damage and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage. It said it had considered their claim 
under the extensions for human disease and public emergency but they didnt provide 
cover in these circumstances. NFU said while the policy provided cover in the event of a 
specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed on the policy. It said the 
public emergency extension didnt provide cover either, as it excluded cover for any public 
emergency caused by an infectious or contagious disease. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service. In 
summary they felt NFU should pay their claim and complained that:
NFU shouldnt be exempt from the findings on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) test case just because they werent one of the insurers involved. 
Covid-19 couldnt be listed as a disease as it wasnt known at the time the policy was 
written and the policy should cover unforeseen events.
Their business was closed by the Government imposed lockdowns and not as a 
result of Covid-19.
They dont agree with NFUs definition of incident on their website.
NFUs approach in turning down claims such as this is unethical. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
he thought NFU had fairly declined their claim. He explained that the policy generally 
provided business interruption cover in the event of damage to property, and he didnt think 
Covid-19 had damaged property. He didnt think the extensions for human diseases or public 
emergency provided cover for Mr and Mrs As claim either and he didnt think NFUs 
definition of incident was relevant to their claim. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs As business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr and Mrs As claim.
Mr and Mrs A dont seem to dispute that that their claim isnt payable under the main 
business interruption section, as that would require the loss of income to have arisen from 
damage to property used by them at their premises. So Im going to focus my decision on 
what I see as the central issues to their complaint. 
Extension for human diseases
This extension provides cover for a loss of income caused by the occurrence of a specified 
disease at Mr and Mrs As business premises. Unfortunately, this extension doesnt provide 
Mr and Mrs A with cover in the circumstances of their claim, as Covid 19 isnt one of the 
diseases listed in the policy.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something NFU might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Mr and Mrs As policy sets out a specified list of 
diseases which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that 
it provides cover for diseases not included, including any new ones which emerge. The
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific diseases.
There are in fact many diseases that the policy doesnt cover. Therefore, I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases.
Extension for public emergency
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a 
competent Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or 
property occurring within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive 
hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law. 
I understand Mr and Mrs A felt that NFU tried to use the fact that it wasnt one of the insurers 
involved in the test case to be exempt from the rulings. However, I think the High Court 
judgment following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Mr and 
Mrs As complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term within another insurers 
policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent localauthority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached in the High Court judgment. I think the 
Governments actions and the closure of Mr and Mrs As business were as a result of Covid-
19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as an infectious disease. So 
unfortunately, this extension doesnt provide cover for the circumstances of their claim either.
Other points
Mr and Mrs A have explained that they disagree with NFUs interpretation of the word 
incident that it set out on its website to explain the cover provided by prevention of access 
policies that refer to an incident. However, I dont think this is relevant to the outcome of their 
claim, as their policy doesnt include a relevant extension with that wording.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A feel its unfair and unethical for NFU to decline their claim given 
the impact Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic has had on their 
business. However, I dont think their claim is covered by their policy. Therefore, having 
considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFU to pay Mr and     
Mrs As claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman