DRN-3660211
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out, in some detail, by our investigator, so I will 
briefly summarise what happened, rather than repeating everything thats been said already.
Mrs B sought advice from HSBC in February 2020. She had around £278,000 available for 
investment, made up of cash and existing investments. She wanted to invest to make up for 
an income shortfall. And she was assessed as having a moderate attitude to risk.
HSBC recommended she invested in a fund managed by a third party but held on its 
investment platform.
Mrs B told us she has little or no knowledge of investment and was very nervous about 
investing, following a bad experience. She said that, within a month, her investment had lost 
money, it didnt produce the expected income, and she wasnt happy with the fees she had 
to pay. She says she wants HSBC to provide her with a constructive resolution of how she 
can exit the investment, without incurring further fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the advice Mrs B was given was suitable for her needs and objectives at the time.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
HSBC hasnt made any suggestions about how she can recover her money. And she 
feels shes missed out on opportunities to invest for growth when markets have been 
buoyant.
She says the advice given in February 2020 was based on assumptions because the 
reality of her finances wasnt known.
The investment should have been more able to sustain difficult market conditions. It 
wasnt suitable to invest in a fund which lost money in the first month and hasnt 
recovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In February 2020 Mrs B held a larger than usual amount of money in her HSBC accounts 
because shed sold her house and had temporarily moved in with a family member whilst 
she looked for another property. She told us she had come close to losing money in the past 
when she was approached to invest by a scammer. For this reason, she says, she was 
worried about the safety of her money, and she approached HSBC for financial advice.
Mrs B says HSBC based its advice on assumptions because it couldnt know how much 
money she would need for her house purchase. But I find Mrs B told HSBC how much she 
intended to spend  on the purchase, and on renovation  and that it was reasonable for 
HSBC to use the figures shed provided in recommending how much she should invest. 
Unfortunately her circumstances changed  in that she ended up spending more than shed 
estimated. But theres nothing to suggest that Mrs B expressed any doubt or concern about 
the figures shed given, and I dont think her excess expenditure was reasonably foreseeable 
by HSBC when it gave its advice. Im satisfied that its recommendation left Mrs B with 
enough readily available cash for her house plans and to meet any unforeseen 
circumstances, based on the information shed provided.
Mrs B told our investigator she felt over-whelmed by the information she received from 
HSBC and that, because of her personal circumstances at the time, she was easy to coerce. 
I fully appreciate Mrs B regrets her investment now. But Im not persuaded HSBC put any 
undue pressure on her to agree to go ahead. HSBC didnt approach her to invest her money 
 she contacted HSBC because she wanted investment advice. I appreciate the amount of 
information to digest when investing can sometimes feel over-whelming. But Im satisfied 
HSBC set the information out reasonably clearly; that Mrs B was given the time and 
opportunity to consider its recommendations; that she had the opportunity to ask questions if 
she was unsure or correct any information about her circumstances; and that she was free to 
reject HSBCs advice if she didnt want to go ahead.
Mrs B told us she is a nervous investor and she only wanted to take a cautious risk with her 
investment. But I think she was correctly assessed as having a moderate attitude to risk 
because:
She had an existing medium risk investment which she was happy with.
She completed HSBCs questionnaire by answering a series of questions about her 
attitude to risk. I find it was reasonable for HSBC to conclude from her answers that she 
had a moderate attitude to risk. 
The assessment of her as a moderate risk investor was reasonably clearly set out in 
HSBCs report. By agreeing to go ahead with the investment, Mrs B agreed that her 
attitude to risk was moderate. 
It was noted during the meeting that Mrs B, believed the benefits of the potential gains 
outweigh the potential losses, which suggests that the risk of her investment making a 
loss was discussed.
Mrs B told our investigator that she thought moderate meant cautious. Whilst Mrs B 
wasnt a particularly experienced investor, I think the risk questionnaire and the information 
in the report made it reasonably clear that moderate didnt mean cautious or low. Mrs B 
had been shown lower and very low risk investment models and shed chosen a moderate 
model in preference. And I find it was clear from the recommended funds key facts that it 
was assessed to have a risk of four out of seven with one to three being lower, or more 
cautious, risk.Overall, I find that the risk questionnaire was sufficiently detailed to assess her attitude and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that she was pressured into answering the questions in a 
certain way. 
Mrs B says the investment was unsuitable because it couldnt sustain market movements 
and it fell in value within the first month. The investment was made just before the Covid 
pandemic and the subsequent unprecedented market falls impacted the value of Mrs Bs 
investment. But HSBC recommended the investment for the medium to longer term, and at 
least five years. A fall in value  even so soon after the investment took place - doesnt mean 
the advice was unsuitable. 
Mrs B isnt happy that her investment hasnt been reviewed. But there was no obligation or 
agreement for HSBC to manage Mrs Bs investment on an on-going basis or to proactively 
provide on-going advice. It had recommended her investment was reviewed on an annual 
basis, but that Mrs B needed to contact HSBC to carry out a review. 
There has been a change of staff at HSBC since Mrs B made the investment. She says that, 
when a new relationship manager contacted her, he suggested he would have provided 
different advice and would have invested for growth. But this was probably said with the 
benefit of hindsight. And Mrs Bs agreed objective in February 2020, when the advice was 
given, was that she wanted income from her investment. Whilst she naturally wanted to 
preserve the capital value, it was more important to her that the investment produced income 
because she was spending more than she received.
I am not unsympathetic to the position in which Mrs B finds herself. Her investment was 
made just before the market fell in value and is now being affected by high inflation rates. 
She spent more than anticipated on her new home and has needed to go back to work to 
supplement her income. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find HSBCs advice was 
unsuitable at the time. It was appropriate for her agreed investment objectives and attitude to 
risk. And, whilst HSBC couldnt reasonably have predicted the unprecedented market 
conditions which materialised shortly after her investment was made, its recommendation 
was for the medium to long term.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman