DRN-2849276
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that a vehicle supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs A is represented in her complaint by Mr S but for ease of reading I will refer to Mrs A 
throughout my decision.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs A was supplied with a used vehicle through a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. She paid a £2,000 deposit and the agreement was for 
£4,495 over 36 months; with monthly repayments of £158.81.
At the time the vehicle was over 11 years old, and had done 131,000 miles.
Mrs A said the problems with the vehicle started on the second day, when it broke down. 
She said they got a garage to come out and they said the turbo pipe had came off due to a 
clip being severely corroded.
She said she noticed a clanking noise when driving the car. She said Mr S inspected the 
noise and replaced a corroded rubber mount that was attached to the gearbox. She said the 
repair didnt work, but as the vehicle did not seem to have a problem she left it at this point 
and put it down to age.
She said the vehicle broke down in May 2020. The recovery service told her that the starter 
motor needed replaced. She took it to a garage who carried out the repair. She said the 
garage told her the vehicle was badly corroded, was in a poor condition, and shed paid over 
the market value. She said they welded the exhaust and told her she needed a new one.
She said in October 2020 she went back to the garage because the rear end of the vehicle 
was handling poorly. She was advised that the leaf springs were corroded and needed to be 
replaced.
She said the vehicle failed its MOT on 24 October 2020. She said the garage told her the 
vehicle had many major defects, and that there were many other faults with the vehicle that 
were not part of the MOT test.
She said she contacted the supplying dealer at this point but they werent willing to help. She 
said she contacted Close Brothers, and she said they agreed to pay for an independent 
inspection.
In December 2020 Mrs A had the car inspected by an independent engineer. He reported 
various leaks, and wear and corrosion to the underside that he said had developed over the 
past years. He also said the vehicle was not in a roadworthy condition and required serious 
attention. He said the MOT history showed signs of wear and faults over 12 months ago.
She said the report was sent to Close Brothers but they didnt uphold her complaint. She 
wanted them to pay for the current repairs but they refused. She now wants them to take the 
vehicle back and refund the cost of the repairs shes had to pay for. She said shes unable to 
use the vehicle.
In their final response letter issued in December 2020, Close Brothers said Mrs A 
complained that the engine management light was on, the 4x4 light flashed constantly, and 
the radiator was leaking. They didnt uphold the complaint because the faults had developed 
after Mrs A had the vehicle for more than six months, and she hadnt provided evidence to 
show the faults were present at the time of sale.
In January 2021, and after reviewing the independent report, Close Brothers said they were 
still not upholding Mrs As complaint. They said this was because at the time of the 
inspection the vehicle had done almost 1,500 miles since the MOT in October 2020, and the 
issues hadnt been reported in the MOT.
Mrs A was unhappy with Close Brothers decision, and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator agreed there were faults with the vehicle, but she thought they were due to 
a reasonable level of wear and tear, as would be expected of a vehicle of this age and 
mileage. She felt the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, and Close 
Brothers didnt need to do anything more to resolve Mrs As complaint.
Mrs A disagreed. She said she the repairs on the vehicle were excessive and more than you 
would reasonably expect. She said the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality or fit for 
purpose. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs A was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.c
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the vehicle shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances  
such as the vehicles age and history.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. But this doesnt apply where its 
established the goods confirmed to contract when they were supplied, for example where 
the fault is the result of wear and tear. And, if a fault is identified after six months, its for Mrs 
A to prove that the fault was present at the point of supply. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs A took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be 
fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
The vehicle was more than 11 years old, and had travelled 131,000 miles when it was 
supplied to Mrs A. And its reasonable to expect to have to repair or replace parts on high 
mileage, older vehicles.
Mrs A says the faults were excessive and more than youd reasonably expect. Our 
investigator discussed each of the fault points with Mrs A and explained why she didnt think 
they made the vehicle not of satisfactory quality.
Its not disputed that Mrs A had issues with the vehicle. But I need to consider whether or not 
theres sufficient evidence to say those issues were present at the point the vehicle was 
supplied to her. And, if so, whether or not this makes the vehicle of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs A said she had issues in the first week she had the vehicle. She said a corroded clip and 
rubber mount had to be replaced. These were relatively minor repairs (the clip cost £10 to 
repair), and would not, make the car of an unsatisfactory quality. Ive also considered that 
Mrs A said she didnt consider the vehicle to have any problems at this point.
The next issue arose when Mrs A had the vehicle for seven months, when the starter motor 
needed replaced. Its not unusual for a starter motor to need replacing when a vehicle has 
travelled more than 100,000 miles, so I think its reasonable to assume this was a wear and 
tear issue. I dont think the part wouldve been faulty at the time of supply  if it had been its 
unlikely it would have worked for seven months. So I dont consider these issues mean the 
car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs A.
The significant issues that caused Mrs A to complain arose at the MOT. At this point shed 
had the vehicle for 12 months, and done more than 12,000 miles. I dont think its reasonable 
to say a car was not of a satisfactory quality when you were able to travel more than the 
average annual mileage.
The issues highlighted on the MOT report are ones that Id consider it reasonable to expect 
on a vehicle that has done more than 140,000 miles. This included issues with wheel 
bearings, brakes, and suspension parts  all vehicle parts that wear, and require replacing.
Ive also considered the report from the independent engineer. He inspected the vehicle 
around six weeks after the vehicle had passed the MOT. An MOT pass means that a vehicle 
is considered to be road safe. MOTs have to be carried out by an approved MOT test 
centre. So I think its reasonable to rely on the evidence I have from an official test centre.
The independent engineer said the vehicle was not in a roadworthy condition. Im not 
challenging his opinion, but Im more persuaded by the inspection of the approved MOT test 
centre. So, based on the successful MOT, Im satisfied in this case that the vehicle was 
roadworthy at the time.
The independent report highlights many issues, but crucially doesnt say whether or not 
these faults were present at the time of supply. He also referred to corrosion on the 
underside of the vehicle  he said this had built over the past years. Id expect a vehicle of 
this type, of this age and mileage, to have corrosion after thirteen years of usage.
Im aware Mrs A has had further issues with the vehicle but, for the reasons given, I dont 
think theres evidence to show that the vehicle was not of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Mrs A. So I wont be asking Close Brothers to do anything more.If Mrs A is in financial difficulty, I expect Close Brothers to treat her positively and 
sympathetically and do what they can to help her pay what she owes.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against Close Brothers 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman