DRN-4281656
The complaint
Mr B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim 
under his bicycle insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Watford, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr Bs bike was stolen from outside his home, so he made a claim on his bicycle insurance 
policy. 
Watford declined the claim on the basis that the bike wasnt stored in accordance with the 
policy terms at the time of the theft. This was because the bike was locked up in a communal 
garden to the flat block in which Mr B resides, which isnt an insured location. 
Mr B disputes this. He says the garden is a private area accessible only to residents of the 
flats. As the policy doesnt define what is meant by a private garden, he doesnt think 
Watford has declined his claim fairly. He also says he told Watford where he was storing his 
bike when he called to change his address part way through his policy. 
Mr B raised a complaint which he brought to our service. But our Investigator didnt uphold it 
as shes satisfied Watford has declined the claim in line with the policy terms. As Mr B 
doesnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy covers him for theft of his bike provided that it was left in an insured location 
defined as:
Insured Location  where the bicycle is usually kept, which must also be your main 
place of residence and as described below: 
Private house - any location within the immediate private, property boundaries 
(e.g. directly connected private garden, building, shed or out-house) of the 
address stated in your Insurance Schedule. 
Flat, apartment, or shared houses - the self-contained rooms in which you live 
including any directly connected private balcony or directly connected private 
garden area, plus any internal communal hallways on the same floor level as 
your main place of residence. 
Communal cycle storage - a fully secure and enclosed residential compound 
specifically designed for parking bicycles; solely for the use of residents at 
your insured location and only accessible through a key or access-code 
operated entrance or exit. 
We also include holiday properties - any secure holiday home, caravan/motorhome, 
guesthouse room or hotel room being used by you as a temporary travel residence.
My understanding, from the information provided by Mr B and Watford, is that the bike was 
locked to an iron gate in an area directly connected to the rear of the flat block. This area is 
accessible to all residents and appears to be a car park from the photographs provided, 
although I appreciate there are some grass areas. 
Im not persuaded this is a directly connected private garden area required by the policy. 
Firstly, because its not predominantly a garden but rather a place for residents to park their 
vehicles. And secondly, because its not a private garden for Mr B only.
Ive thought about Mr Bs argument that the policy terms are unclear. He says the policy 
doesnt define private and that he considers it to mean private property. 
I accept the policy doesnt define this specific word. But the policy terms need to be read in 
full and in the context of the whole section. In the definition of insured location quoted 
above, the policy refers to different locations as either private or communal  i.e. a private 
balcony or garden, or a communal hallway or cycle store. No location is referred to as being 
both, so its fair to say that private in this context is the opposite of communal.
For these reasons, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Watford to conclude that Mr 
Bs bike wasnt stored in an insured location at the time of the theft. 
Im aware Mr B called Watford several months prior to the theft of his bike to change his 
address. On that call, Mr B was made aware of the requirements of how and where to store 
his bike in line with the policy terms. Mr B advised Watford hed be storing the bike inside his 
flat. Had Mr B informed Watford that he was planning on securing the bike outside the flat in 
a parking / garden area, Watford wouldve had the opportunity to ask for further information 
and clarify that it wasnt an insured location. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman