DRN-2051806
The complaint
Mr G complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos has 
reported inaccurate information on his credit file. 
To resolve the complaint Mr G would like Argos to amend his credit file.
What happened
Both Mr G and Argos agree that Mr G accessed his Argos account on-line on                      
28 December 2018 to make some amendments to his direct debit instruction. 
But Argos says this amendment was made so close to the payment due date that it 
prevented it from collecting the direct debit payment due on 5 January 2019. This left the 
account in arrears.
Argos sent Mr G a statement of account on 7 January 2019 showing the status of the 
account. It also confirmed that the arrears would not be collected by direct debit. As the 
arrears werent adjusted, Argos issued further letters throughout 2019 to confirm the status 
of the account. But it says Mr G did not respond and so access to his account was blocked. 
Mr G complained to Argos about the information it had reported on his credit file as a result 
of this. But Argos didnt accept it had done anything wrong. And it didnt agree to amend    
Mr Gs credit file.
Unhappy with the response, Mr G referred the complaint to this service. He said that making 
the change to the direct Debit on 28 December 2018 gave Argos plenty of time to collect the 
direct debit payment on the due date. And that he had assumed that the higher than 
minimum monthly repayment claimed by direct debit in February 2019 would have cleared 
the arrears. He also says he didnt receive the letters Argos sent as he wasnt living in the 
UK at the time and his mail wasnt being forwarded on to him. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think that Argos had done anything wrong 
when sending letters to Mr Gs address in the UK as Mr G hadnt told Argos he was out of 
the country. But he said Mr Gs statements showed that only the January payment had been 
missed. And yet his credit file indicated late payments for 11 months out of 12 during 2019. 
And he didnt think this was an accurate reflection of what had happened. So, he upheld    
Mr Gs complaint. And recommended that Argos should adjust Mr Gs credit file to reflect the 
accurate situation  one missed payment in January 2019.
Argos didnt agree. It said that, when a customer misses a payment but thereafter continues 
to make a monthly payment, the next monthly payment clears the arrears from the previous 
month which leaves the current months payment in arrears and so on until the arrears are 
cleared in full. 
Our investigator didnt think this altered the outcome of the complaint. He said the way Argos 
was reporting the missed payment on Mr Gs account didnt comply with the Principles for 
the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies from the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Argos still didnt accept the investigators recommendation and it asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigators. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Ive thought about whether Argos made a mistake when it failed to collect Mr Gs 
direct debit in January 2019. I know Mr G thinks that Argos had plenty of time to collect the 
direct debit as he made changes to his direct debit instruction on 28 December 2018 and the 
payment wasnt due to 5 January 2019. 
So, I think its important to explain that Direct Debts are collected via the Bankers 
Automated Clearing Service (BACS) and this isnt an instantaneous payment system. 
Amendments to existing instructions and new instructions need to be in the system several 
working days before a payment can be collected. And here some of the dates in between   
Mr G making the direct debit alternation and the payment due date fell on weekends and a 
bank holiday  so these werent working days. Overall, Im persuaded that Argos didnt have 
enough time to collect the amended direct debit instruction. So, I dont think Argos made a 
mistake when it didnt collect the direct debit on 5 January 2019.
Ive also seen that Argos sent various correspondence to Mr G to let him know the status of 
account during 2019. And Mr G hasnt disputed that he didnt update Argos with a new 
address when he was out of the country. So, I think Argos did enough to inform Mr G of the 
arrears on the account and what he needed to do to put things right. 
But, Like the investigator, Im satisfied that Mr G went on to make a monthly payment each 
month thereafter until he repaid the account in full in December 2019. So, Im satisfied Mr G 
only missed one months payment. I also note that the February 2019 payment (approx. £25) 
was more than what Mr Gs normal minimum payment was (approx. £12/£13), so I can 
understand why Mr G thought the arrears had been adjusted via this direct debit payment. 
But I can see that his credit file shows 11 months late payments  February to December 
2019. As the investigator has said, Argos is required to record accurate information on the 
credit file and that the purpose of reporting such information is to indicate at the earliest 
reasonable opportunity that a customer is showing signs of potential financial difficulty. But 
here only one payment of approx. £13 was missed. So, I dont think the way in which Argos 
was reporting the information on Mr Gs credit file was accurate and it was disproportionate 
to what had actually happened. So, I dont think Argos has treated Mr G fairly
Putting things right
Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos should adjust Mr Gs credit 
file to reflect that he only missed one monthly payment in January 2019.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited trading as Argos should make the adjustment to Mr Gs credit file as set above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman