DRN-2129074
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain about Etico Group Limited and their failure to submit claims for 
mis-sold payment protection insurance on loans solely in Mrs Ps name.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P first instructed Etico to pursue a claim for mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) on a joint mortgage account. They signed a joint letter of authority (LOA) 
and Etico submitted the claim. On this occasion, the lender confirmed there was no PPI on 
the mortgage and so the claim was unsuccessful.
In the spring of 2019, Mrs P and Mr P then contacted Etico again, explaining theyd found 
some old loan documents and wanted these claims to be pursued. Etico sent a new LOA on 
Mrs P and Mr Ps request. But the LOAs were sent in the same format, with Mr P as the 
main account holder and Mrs P as a joint signatory. Mrs P and Mr P returned the LOA 
alongside the loan documents in May
Etico then submitted the claims to Lender Y. But, as the LOA was set up in the same format 
as the first mortgage application, only claims for Mr P were submitted. Mr P received a 
successful PPI refund. But Mrs P and Mr P didnt understand why Mrs P hadnt received any 
compensation for her individual loans. Etico explained the claims for Mrs Ps individual loans 
hadnt been submitted and cut off for PPI claims had since expired. Mrs P and Mr P were 
unhappy with this, so they raised a complaint.
They complained about Eticos failure to submit claims for Mrs Ps individual loans. As the 
PPI deadline had expired, they felt Mrs P has lost the opportunity to receive a PPI refund. 
So, they wanted Etico to compensate her for the financial losses they felt shed incurred.
Etico upheld the complaint. Although they didnt think Mrs P and Mr P had made it clear they 
wanted Mrs P individual loans to be pursued, they recognised they failed to notice and act 
upon the individual loan documents. So, they wanted to submit a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) to Lender Y to understand if the account did contain PPI so they could 
consider appropriate compensation. And they agreed to suspend the outstanding invoice for 
Mr Ps claims. Mrs P and Mrs P were unhappy with this, so they brought their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially, didnt uphold it. She felt Eticos offer 
to submit a DSAR to allow them to consider the right compensation was a fair one. So, didnt 
think they need to do more at that stage. Mrs P and Mrs P agreed and provided Etico with a 
new LOA to complete this. But, Etico didnt send the DSAR and stopped engaging with Mrs 
P and Mr P and our service. So, the complaint was re-opened.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again and upheld it. She thought Mrs P had lost the 
opportunity to submit her claims. But she explained we were unable to say for certain 
whether they wouldve been upheld. And she explained we couldnt compensate Mrs P for 
potential financial losses, only those that had actually been incurred. So, she thought Etico 
should pay Mrs P and Mr P £250 to recognise the opportunity she lost to have her claims 
investigated by Lender L.
And she thought Etico had inconvenienced Mrs P by failing to submit the DSAR as theyd 
said they would. She thought this time delay wouldve been both upsetting and frustrating so 
thought Etico should pay Mrs P an additional £100 to recognise this. Mrs P and Mr P didnt 
agree as they maintained Mrs P wouldve received a refund for substantially more than the 
combined amount recommended by our investigator. As they didnt agree, the complaints 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint. Ive focused my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Although Im aware its not been disputed that Etico couldve done more, Ive first looked at 
whether I think they made an error when not submitting Mrs Ps claims. Ive seen the e-mail 
Mr P sent to Etico, and the loan documents he attached afterwards. Within this, he explains 
there are loans he wanted Etico to pursue.
I think the loan documents clearly show that there were loans in Mr P and Mrs Ps names 
separately. So, even though I understand Eticos view that it wasnt clearly stated that Mrs P 
wanted to raise claims herself, I think they shouldve contacted Mrs P and Mr P to ensure 
they had the correct understanding of the instruction. And had they done so, I think it 
wouldve been made clear to them that claims needed to be submitted separately. And 
because of that, I think Mrs Ps claims wouldve been submitted before the PPI deadline as 
Mr Ps were. So, I think Eticos actions led to Mrs Ps loss of opportunity, and she should be 
compensated for this. Ill discuss what level of compensation later in the decision.
As I stated above, Etico didnt dispute they couldve done more. And they offered to submit a 
DSAR on Mrs Ps behalf to Lender Y to see if PPI was attached to the loans so they could 
understand what a fair offer of compensation would be. And I think this was a reasonable 
response. But I can see to this date that Etico havent followed through with this. This has 
caused a delay in the resolution of Mrs and Mr Ps complaint which I think wouldve been 
frustrating. But more than that, I think their failure to submit this DSAR gives Mrs P and Mr P 
the impression that Etico arent concerned by the impact the error has had on them. And I 
think this would be upsetting for Mrs P and Mr P. So, I think Eticos failure to submit the 
DSAR should be compensated for separately and Ill discuss what I think is a fair offer 
below.
Putting things right
Ive first considered Mrs Ps loss of opportunity to submit her claims. Mrs P and Mrs P have 
provided with a loan document for one of the two loans. This shows that PPI was added to 
the loan. Theyve been unable to provided me with documents for the other loan so Im 
unable to be sure whether PPI was added or not. 
But even though PPI was present on at least one of the loans, Im unable to say for certain 
that it was mis-sold. The presence of PPI on a loan itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold, or 
that Lender Y wouldve upheld the claim and issued a PPI refund. Because of this, any 
compensation award I direct doesnt take into consideration the amount Mrs P may have 
received if a claim was successful. Instead, the award I direct is intended to recognise Mrs Ps loss of opportunity, and the 
emotional impact this wouldve had. And I think Mrs P and Mr P wouldve been left upset at 
not being able to submit a claim, especially as they had a document which showed PPI was 
present. So, I think they would be left feeling angry and frustrated at losing this opportunity 
through no fault of their own. To recognise this loss of opportunity and the impact it had, I 
think Etico should pay Mrs and Mr P £250. I understand Mrs P and Mr P doesnt think 
amount reflects the potential refund they may have been due, but as Ive explained Im 
unable to consider the potential financial loss as Im unable to speculate on whether the 
claims wouldve been successful.
And Etico also failed to submit as DSAR despite agreeing to do so. So, I think they should 
compensate Mrs P and Mr P for the delays this caused when seeking a resolution to their 
complaint and the upset it created due to the impression it gave. Mrs P and Mr P went 
through some trouble to sign a new LOA to allow Etico to submit this DSAR. And they were 
forced to contact us again when Etico failed to submit it as they said they would. This 
wouldve been time consuming and add to the frustration that already felt about the situation 
they found themselves in. Because of this, I think Etico should pay Mrs P and Mr P an 
additional £100 to recognise the impact their failure to submit a DSAR had.
So, I think Etico should pay Mrs P and Mr P a total of £350 to fairly compensate them for the 
poor level of service they received. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint about Etico Group 
Limited and I direct them to take the following actions:
Pay £250 to recognise Mrs Ps loss of opportunity to submit a claim
Pay £100 to recognise the impact their failure to submit a DSAR has had.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman