DRN-2956923
The complaint
K, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to update its address as 
requested. This meant that K was without a debit card for three months.
What happened
In late 2018, K asked Barclays to update its address, but Barclays didnt do this properly. As 
a result, when Ks debit card was due to expire in May 2020, Barclays sent a replacement to 
the old business address. 
After K followed this up with Barclays, it sent further debit cards to the old address. This 
meant that K was without a debit card until Barclays sent a correctly addressed replacement 
at the end of August 2020.
Before this service became involved, Barclays paid K £225 to apologise for the delays, 
mistakes and for its handling of the complaint.  K didnt consider that this was adequate. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Ks complaint be upheld because he thought 
Barclays had already done enough to put things right.
K is very unhappy with the investigators recommendation. K says that charges should be 
refunded because Barclays failed to provide the services it had paid for between December 
2018 and September 2020. K says that several customers werent prepared to buy their own 
materials, so it lost out on work when K didnt have a debit card to use.
K is unhappy that Barclays continued to write to its old address. K questions what Barclays 
has done about contacting the person who received its post by mistake to make sure the 
debit cards are destroyed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses that 
we cover. My role is not to punish or penalise businesses for the way in which they conduct 
their business  thats the role of the regulator.
My role is to look at the problem faced by K and see if Barclays has done anything wrong. If 
it has, we try and put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been if the mistakes 
hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation if we think its fair and 
reasonable.
I dont wish to appear simplistic in my approach, but its agreed that Barclays made mistakes 
when it didnt update Ks address and sent debit cards to its old address.  Barclays also took 
longer than necessary to get a new debit card to K. 
I dont intend setting these mistakes out in detail again. This is not to diminish their 
importance to K but the issue I need to consider is whether I should require Barclays to do 
and pay more than it already has. I want to reassure K that I have considered everything that 
it has told us and given to us during the course of the complaint. 
I dont doubt that the mistakes and delays caused inconvenience, but I dont find that 
Barclays should compensate K more than it already has and I will explain why.
Wrong address
I understand Ks concern that Barclays sent debit cards to an address that it no longer used. 
However, I dont have any evidence to suggest that this resulted in any loss on the part of K 
 for example because someone other than K was then able to use the debit cards 
fraudulently. 
As I dont find that Barclays mistake led to a financial loss in terms of fraudulent activity, I 
dont require it to pay more compensation than it already has done.
Although K wants to know what steps Barclays has taken to find out what happened to the 
debit cards, Im satisfied that Barclays cancelled them to prevent them being used. I dont 
require it to take further steps in relation to the debit cards.
I appreciate that K is concerned about other correspondence being sent to its old address 
but from what Ive seen, this wasnt the case. Barclays says it only sent a few letters to K 
between 2018 and 2020. And Barclays sent these letters to Ks updated business address. It 
has given this service a copy of a letter it sent to K in January 2019 that is addressed 
correctly. And K told the investigator that it had received a correctly addressed letter from 
Barclays in May 2020.
The reason for the discrepancy is that Barclays correctly updated Ks address for 
correspondence. But it didnt update Ks address for statements. Barclays made Ks 
statements available online which means these were not sent to the wrong address. 
However, Barclays sent Ks replacement debit cards to its statement address  meaning that 
only the debit cards were sent to Ks old address. I dont say this to explain away Barclays 
mistake  simply to reassure K that other letters dont appear to have gone astray.
I acknowledge Ks concern that it may be the subject of fraud in the future, but I cant award 
compensation for something that hasnt happened.  If anything were to happen in the future 
as a result of the debit cards being sent to the wrong address, I would expect Barclays to 
deal with that on Ks behalf. 
Bank charges
K thinks that because Barclays didnt update its address properly, this means it wasnt 
providing the services that K paid for so Barclays should refund the account charges. But K 
was able to operate its bank account and use the debit card for most of the time. It was only 
once K realised the debit card had expired, that it couldnt use it to make purchases. 
From Barclays records, K contacted it in mid-June 2020 to say it hadnt received a new debit 
card. The correctly addressed debit card was finally sent out on 28 August 2020. As the 
investigator already explained  Barclays paid K compensation for the delay in providing a 
new debit card. I dont require Barclays to refund any charges in addition to this.
Loss of earningsK says that as some potential customers didnt want to buy their own materials, it lost out on 
jobs due to the lack of a business debit card. The investigator asked K what evidence it had 
of this. I appreciate Ks explanation that it doesnt write contracts and would have provided 
written or verbal quotations. But without evidence of what jobs K lost out on as a direct result 
of telling customers that they would have to pay for their own materials, I cant require 
Barclays to pay additional compensation.
Even if K had lost work due to not having a business debit card, I wouldnt necessarily 
require Barclays to pay more than it already has. I say this because as far as Im aware, K 
was able to pay and receive money in to its account. I wouldve expected K to try and 
minimise its losses  for example by transferring money to another account to enable it to 
purchase items on behalf of Ks customers 
Finally, I note that the terms of Ks bank account with Barclays specifically exclude liability 
for loss of business, loss of goodwill, loss of opportunity or loss of profit. So even if K could 
show how much it had lost out as a result of not having the debit card for a period, I may not 
be able to require Barclays to pay the level of compensation it would like.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint K, but Im satisfied that Barclays has already 
done enough to put things right. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider Barclays has 
already paid enough compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman