DRN-3619980
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) unfairly declined a 
claim under a building warranty policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mr C arranged a 10 year building warranty insurance for a property he was having 
refurbished.
A glass balustrade on the balcony suffered damage which Mr C believes was due to 
it not being fitted correctly by his contractors. And he made a claim for the damage.
Amtrust declined the claim saying the glass balustrade does not form part of the 
building structure as defined in the policy. So Mr C brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied there was no cover for 
the glass balustrade under the policy. He stated the balustrade didnt meet the 
definition of the building Structure as set out in the policy. He also noted the policy 
covered Major Damage and in his view the damage didnt meet the policies 
definition of major damage. 
Mr C asked that an ombudsman decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
There is no dispute the balustrade is damaged. The issue I have to decide is whether 
Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions in 
declining the claim.
The policy covers Major Damage which it defines as: 
Any defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of the Structure 
affecting or causing destruction or physical damage and/or affecting or causing imminent 
instability of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Approval has been received by 
the Underwriter and which is first discovered during the Period of Insurance.
Whilst there has been damage to the glass balustrade, Im satisfied it doesnt meet the 
definition of Major Damage as set out in the policy.
Ive then looked at the definition of Structure under the policy, and its set out as:
Foundations;
Load-bearing parts of floors, staircases and associated guard rails, walls and roofs, 
together with load bearing retaining walls necessary for stability;
Roof covering
Any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-tightness 
of the external envelope;
Floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads;
Multiple glazed panels to external windows;
I find the definition clear and Im satisfied the glass balustrade on the balcony of the building 
doesnt meet the definition of Structure as defined by the policy.
In the circumstances of this case I find Amtrust have acted reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy so I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman