DRN-3628288
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Hugh James Solicitors (Hugh James) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In August 2017 scheme members were told that, if the Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) was approved (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring 
mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in 
respect of a DB pension scheme) they would have a choice - either move into a new scheme 
(BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
Mr D was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so in August 2017 he met with Hugh James for advice. It appears 
that Mr D approached another financial advice firm in the first instance because Hugh James 
has provided a completed fact-find from another firm dated around the same time. This 
recorded information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. I assume this firm 
introduced Mr D to Hugh James  perhaps because it didnt hold the necessary regulatory 
permissions to advise on DB pension transfers.
Hugh James also completed a fact-find, albeit in little detail. Based on the two documents, 
Mr Ds circumstances can be summarised as follows: Mr D was 51 years old; he was 
married with two children; he and his wife jointly owned their home, which had an 
outstanding mortgage that was due to be repaid in two years time; he had no other 
liabilities; he had no savings to speak of; and he and his wife had other pension provision.
A separate DB pension questionnaire recorded that Mr D wanted to retire between 60-65 
ideally on an income (joint) of £20,000. It also recorded Mr B might want to access his tax-
free cash at age 55 for a possible extension... Hugh James also carried out an assessment 
of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it deemed to be Balanced.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 23 October 2017 Hugh James advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in two investment funds, which Hugh James 
deemed matched Mr Ds attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons 
for this recommendation were: because Mr D wasnt solely reliant on the income from this 
pension, his other means would potentially offer the level of income he needed; there was 
potential given the size of the transfer value and the term to retirement for Mr D to build a 
greater fund value, which would allow him to take a greater level of income if desired; to 
provide the flexibility to change the level of income taken throughout retirement; and provide 
better lump sum death benefits.
Mr D accepted the recommendation and some time afterwards, around £289,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension and invested in-line with the recommendation.
Using the services of a representative, Mr D complained in 2021 to Hugh James about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. Mr D said he believes he should not have been 
recommended to transfer in his circumstances and that the benefits available to him through 
the BSPS2 are unlikely to be matched through a private pension arrangement.
Hugh James didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it wasnt Mr Ds objective to match 
the benefits available to him through the BSPS2. It said Mr Ds income could be met from his 
other sources, so securing a guaranteed income through the BSPS2 wasnt his goal. 
Amongst other things, in summary it said the transfer was suitable because: Mr B wanted 
the flexibility to access his tax-free cash at 55 with the specific intention of providing an 
extension to his home  this was the driving force behind Mr Bs intention to transfer out 
which could not have been met by remaining in the DB scheme; remaining in the scheme 
wouldve meant Mr B had to take his tax-free cash and income at the same time at 55  
income he didnt need; from age 65 the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF along with his 
other pension income wouldve exposed him to paying higher income tax than was 
necessary  by transferring Mr D had flexibility of withdrawals; and any surplus pension 
funds could be drawdown for exceptional expenditure or left for his family upon his death. It 
said it didnt believe Mr D had suffered a loss. But it said, notwithstanding its view that the 
advice was suitable, it offered a cash sum to settle the complaint.
Mr D rejected the offer of settlement and he asked us to consider his complaint. An 
investigator upheld the complaint and required Hugh James to pay compensation. In 
summary they said Mr Ds concerns about his DB schemes future financial stability were not 
sufficient reason to consider transferring out of the scheme. They said while Mr D may have 
liked the idea of retiring early, his reasons werent documented so they didnt think it was a 
firm objective. They also didnt think Mr Ds income need of £1,500 a month was realistic  
they said Hugh James didnt carry out a detailed expenditure in retirement analysis, which 
they ought to have done given the recommendation report said its recommendation was 
based on Mr Ds income need being accurate. They said if Mr D had opted into the BSPS2, 
the guaranteed income wouldve met his need. 
The investigator went on to explain that, while they understood Mr D might have had a good 
reason to want to access his tax-free cash at 55  albeit they noted the advice paperwork 
said it was a possibility - Hugh James didnt consider the alternatives available to Mr D to 
meet his objective. They said this included Mr D borrowing the money given his income and 
the fact he had at least nine years to retirement. 
They said Hugh James didnt understand how much Mr D needed to meet his objective and 
without this it wasnt possible to give suitable advice. They added that lump sum death 
benefits wasnt a sufficient reason to transfer and they didnt think the transferred funds 
could grow sufficiently to match let alone exceed Mr Ds DB scheme benefits. They said 
suitable advice shouldve been for Mr D to opt into the BSPS2.
Hugh James disagreed. In summary it said the regulators starting assumption that a transfer is unsuitable  COBS 19.1.6 G - should not be the basis for the Financial Ombudsman 
Services starting assumption when considering the advice. It said any concerns Mr D had 
about the financial stability of the BSPS did not factor in the advice to transfer. It said it was 
a clear intention of Mr Ds to take early retirement - but said that the more significant factor in 
this case is that Mr D expressed a wish to be able to access his tax-free cash as soon as 
possible from age 55. By transferring he would be able to do this and not retire early. 
In relation to Mr Ds required retirement income of £1,500 a month, it said the vast majority 
of people retire on significantly less income that when they were working and it disagrees 
with the investigator that the adviser shouldve advised Mr D that living on £1,500 a month 
was unrealistic  in any event his expected total household income in retirement was 
expected to exceed this amount. It said the suitability of the advice turned on his stated need 
for tax-free cash to provide him with the funds to extend his home. It disagreed with the view 
that the adviser ought to have obtained costings from Mr D and it said, given the amount of 
the potential tax-free cash against the value of Mr Ds home, there was no reason to suggest 
the amount wouldnt be sufficient to meet his need. It explained why it didnt think borrowing 
the money instead was suitable for Mr D and it provided typical costings for a mortgage for 
the equivalent tax-free cash sum amount, which it said was unaffordable at over £1,400 a 
month or around £767 a month if the term was extended to ten years. It said there was no 
evidence Mr D wanted to build the extension in any event before he was 55 and if he wanted 
to do that he couldve sought advice independently of the BSPS transfer. It said the 
investigator had not placed sufficient weight on Mr Ds particular circumstances including 
that his BSPS benefits were surplus to his income need.
Mr Ds representative responded to the investigators assessment. It said that, while it 
agreed the complaint should be upheld, Mr D says the £1,500 a month income need in 
retirement isnt accurate  Hugh James didnt record his outgoings. It said for the purposes 
of the redress calculation, it should be assumed Mr D will retire at 65. And it said the notional 
deduction for tax should not apply to the part of the redress which reflects the compensation 
for the adviser/product charges.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Hugh James' actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Hugh James 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Hugh James carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).  Hugh James has provided four 
reports  1 September 2017, 5 September 2017, 19 September 2017 and 17 October 2017. 
While the first two correctly, in my view, refer to the increased transfer value Mr D received 
following the approval of the RAA, for some reason the latter two are based on the original 
lower value. All however appear to be based on Mr Ds existing BSPS scheme benefits. But 
at the time of the advice Mr D didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS. So basing the 
analysis on the existing scheme was somewhat redundant and in my view wasnt helpful to 
Mr D.
By the time Hugh James issued its suitability letter on 23 October 2017, Mr D wouldve likely 
received his Time to Choose information with details about the new scheme - the BSPS2. 
This wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS but the annual increases 
wouldve been lower. I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But in 
my view, all of the communications from the scheme trustees at this time were very 
optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be met. So given this, I think it was 
reasonable for Hugh James to have used the benefits available to Mr D through the BSPS2 
in its analysis and advice so that he was able to make a properly informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr D was 51 at the time of the advice (soon to be 52) and it was recorded that he wanted to 
retire between 60 and 65. As I said above, there are several TVAS reports with different 
transfer values. The report dated 1 September 2017 with the increased transfer value set out 
the critical yield required to match Mr Ds existing scheme benefits at 65 and was 7.2% 
assuming he took a full pension and 5.64% assuming he took a cash lump sum and a 
reduced pension. The critical yields to match the benefits available through the PPFwere 5.52% and 4.99% respectively. 
The report of 17 October 2017 set out the critical yields for a retirement age of 60, albeit for 
some reason this was based on the lower transfer value. This records a critical yield of 
9.58% assuming Mr D took a full pension and 6.57% for a reduced pension. And the critical 
yields to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 were 9.02% and 8.25% 
respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr D remaining in the existing scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided even if that meant 
waiting for the details to be known. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve 
likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher 
than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 3.5% per year for eight years to retirement (age 60) and 4.1% for 13 years to retirement
(age 65) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds
recorded balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would 
be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 60 (the earliest Mr D indicated 
he wanted to retire) was 6.57%, which was based on Mr D taking a cash lump sum and
a reduced pension through the existing BSPS. It was 8.25% based on him taking the same 
benefits through the PPF. So, based on Mr D taking the same benefits at age 60 through the 
BSPS2, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between 8.25% and 6.57%, and 
likely closer to 6.57%. Based on a retirement age of 65, I think the critical yields wouldve 
been somewhere between 5.64% and 4.99% and likely closer to 5.64%.
In both cases these rates were higher than the discount rate and above the regulators 
middle projection rate. So, given this, I think it was clear that Mr D was likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 at retirement, whether at 
age 60 or 65, as a result of transferring out and investing in line with a balanced attitude to 
risk. I dont think the position was very different if the scheme moved to the PPF  I think, at 
best, the opportunity to improve on the benefits was limited.
Id add here that I have some concerns about Hugh James assessment of Mr Ds attitude to 
risk as balanced. Mr D did not hold any investment products (I dont consider a Defined 
Contribution workplace pension scheme counts) and in the suitability report it referred to 
Mr D as having little to no knowledge of financial products and investments and how they 
work. I think Mr D could reasonably be described as an investment novice. So, given this 
together with Mr Ds age and the shortening term to retirement, I think a cautious approach 
was more appropriate here. But given I dont think the transfer was suitable based on a 
balanced risk approach, this doesnt affect my decision.
So based on financial viability alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Ds best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as Hugh James has argued in this case. It says Mr D wasnt looking to 
replicate the benefits available to him through the scheme. So there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered this below.Flexibility, access to tax-free cash and income needs
Hugh James recommended the transfer to enable Mr D to have flexibility  the ability for him 
to move to a drawdown arrangement and take a level of income that was both desirable and 
sustainable throughout his lifetime, including being able to change the income level to suit 
his needs.
While Im not persuaded that Mr D knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in
retirement, in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to
achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr D was soon to be 52 at the time of the advice and while hed likely given some thought to 
his future retirement, given he indicated that he wanted to retire at some point between 60 
and 65, I dont think he had anything that could reasonably be described as firm plans for 
retirement. Im sure Mr D liked the idea of retiring early  I think most people if asked would 
say they wanted to retire before their normal retirement age. And Mr D already had this 
option available to him  he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept Mr D could 
not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum 
and a reduced annual pension, Mr D had to take those benefits at the same time. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr D had a concrete need to take his tax-free cash at 55 and defer taking his 
income to a later date. Im also not persuaded he had a strong need to vary his income 
throughout retirement. To my mind, these seem more of a nice to have rather than a 
genuine objective of Mr D.s
I can see that Hugh James says that the significant factor in this case is that Mr D expressed 
a wish to be able to access his tax-free cash as soon as possible from age 55 and that the 
suitability of the advice turned on this need to provide him with the funds to extend his home. 
But in my view, Im not persuaded Mr D had a firm plan to access his tax-free cash at this 
time and so was a compelling reason to recommend a transfer  albeit despite Hugh James 
argument that the suitability turned on this objective the reasons it gave in the suitability 
report for the recommendation to transfer make no mention of this.
I accept Mr Ds circumstances indicate he had good reason to want to extend his family 
home. But the advice paperwork records that this was only a possibility. Its not clear to me 
why Mr D would need or could only carry this out when he reached 55 and so need a cash 
lump sum at this point. It seems likely to me this was driven by 55 being the earliest date 
Mr D could access his pension benefits.
Because this was recorded as an objective  and if it was a significant factor in the 
recommendation as Hugh James says  I wouldve expected Hugh James to have 
interrogated Mr Ds intention. Both in terms of understanding how much, broadly, Mr D might 
need to achieve things, as well as the reasonable alternatives that might be available to him 
instead of transferring his guaranteed pension to achieve things. It seems the assumption 
made here is that Mr D needed access to the maximum tax-free cash to build an extension. 
But because Hugh James didnt ask Mr D if that was the case and whether he knew how 
much he might need, Im not persuaded this was a reasonable assumption to make  its 
entirely possible that Mr D needed a lot less than this.
I think Hugh James should also have discussed the alternative available to Mr D to fund his 
objective  for example by considering the option of him borrowing the money. Mr D 
intended to continue working for at least the next eight years or more, so its possible that 
given his mortgage doesnt appear to have been significant he couldve explored a form of 
secured (or unsecured) borrowing. I can see Hugh James has argued the cost was 
prohibitive. But this is on the assumption that Mr D needed around £80,000, which as Ive said might not have been the case. It has also argued that Mr D didnt want to consider the 
extension before he was 55. But again, theres nothing to indicate why things had to happen  
at this point. Without exploring these things Im not persuaded Hugh James was in a position 
to say that it was in Mr Ds best interests to transfer out to achieve things.
On the basis that it doesnt appear it was necessary for Mr D to access his tax-free cash 
before taking an income, I think Mr D could likely achieve his objectives  both income and 
lump sum need - by retaining his DB scheme benefits. Importantly Mr D and his employer 
were contributing to his DC workplace pension at a contribution rate of 16% of his salary. So 
based on contributions alone and not accounting for any growth, increases in Mr Ds salary 
or increases in the contribution rate,  Mr Ds pension could be worth in excess of £50,000 at 
age 60 or £82,000 at age 65. Taking into account investment growth, this had the potential 
to worth significantly more (Hugh James indicated that at a 5% growth rate it could be worth 
around £128,000 at age 65.)
This means that at age 65, if Mr D opted into the BSPS2, he could take a pension of around 
£15,000 a year or £10,000 and a lump sum of around £68,000 (Hugh James analysis 
recorded that the existing scheme would provide a full pension of £15,587 and a reduced 
pension of £10,300.) Any shortfall in income and/or lump sum need could be met by Mr D 
accessing income or lump sums from his DC scheme  Mr D wouldve likely had a significant 
pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional 
lump sums. Mr D also had another DB scheme estimated in 2011 to be worth around £5,400 
a year at 65. Furthermore Mr Ds wife had two pensions which could supplement their 
household income when she retired  likely a few years after Mr D. 
Mr D indicated that he (jointly) would need £20,000 a year in retirement - his minimum 
expenditure need was £1,500 a month. And while Hugh James didnt carry out a detailed 
income and expenditure analysis to arrive at this figure, it seems Mr D could meet his 
income need by opting into the BSPS2.
At age 60, I also think Mr D could meet his objectives by opting into the BSPS2, at least until 
his state pension became payable. Under the existing scheme, Mr D could take an annual 
income of around £12,000 or £8,300 and a cash lump sum of around £55,000. Again, I think 
this could be supplemented from Mr Ds DC scheme and his wifes earned income. Mr D 
could also choose to take his other DB scheme benefits early if needed. Once Mr Ds wife 
retired, her pensions could also supplement things.
So I dont think Mr D wouldve had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the 
BSPS2. But if Mr D did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he 
already had, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age. And by 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, 
if indeed it was required. I think Hugh James couldve explained this more clearly to Mr D.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr D wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr D would receive was lower than the pension hed likely be entitled to 
under the BSPS2 (on the basis of a full pension) I dont think it was substantially lower such 
that it wouldve made a difference to the recommendation. 
As Ive explained in detail above, Mr D wouldve likely had other means to draw on until his 
state pension became payable.
I can see Hugh James has argued Mr Ds BSPS pension was surplus to requirements  his 
other means met his overall income need. But it seems this was only the case once Mr D reached 67 when his state pension became payable. Prior to this I think Mr D would rely on 
his BSPS benefits, which represented at the time the vast majority of his own private 
pension provision. And just because ultimately Mr Ds total income would be in excess of his 
stated need, does not in my view demonstrate a strong need for flexibility or that a transfer to 
a personal pension arrangement was in his best interests. I do not consider excess income 
to be detrimental. 
So overall, I think Mr D couldve likely met his objectives and income needs in retirement 
through the BSPS2 or the PPF and I think he already had the flexibility to achieve his goals. 
So I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his pension to have 
additional flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
Hugh James also recommend the transfer because it provided lump sum death benefits, and 
dependant on Mr Ds age at death, the proceeds could be passed to his beneficiaries free of 
tax.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning tool. And I dont think 
Hugh James explored to what extent Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr D predeceased her. I dont think Hugh James made the value of these 
benefits clear enough to Mr D. They were guaranteed and escalated  the spouses pension 
under the BSPS2 would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. 
Furthermore, it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was  so if Mr D lived a long life and/or investment returns 
were poor, there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died. 
In any event, Hugh James should not have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful that Mr D already had lump sum death benefits available to him. He had death in 
service benefit which would provide his family with a lump sum before retirement. He also 
had his DC scheme pension, which he could nominate his wife, or other family members to 
receive upon his death if he hadnt already done so.
I can understand why in Mr Ds broader circumstances that he likely wanted to leave a 
legacy for his family. And if that genuinely was the case, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Hugh James couldve 
explored additional life insurance further. 
I can see in the suitability report the adviser referred to a level term assurance quote for a 
sum assured based on the transfer value  the lowest premium quoted was around £43 a 
month  and this was discounted by them because: there was no cash-in value and the 
cover remains the same.But I dont think this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr D. Firstly, basing the 
quote on the transfer value essentially assumes that Mr D would pass away on day one 
following the transfer. But that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr D wanted to leave whatever
remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life
and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr D
how much he would ideally like to leave to his family or what he thought they would need, 
after taking into account the above existing benefits and also his wifes own pension income. 
And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis. But in any event, 
just because a term assurance policy had no cash-in value and the cover provided remains 
the same, is not, in my view, a compelling reason to discount this option and recommend a 
transfer instead. Even with a sum assured equivalent to the transfer value, Ive seen nothing 
to suggest this wasnt affordable for Mr D and I consider life assurance shouldve been what 
Hugh James recommended to meet this objective.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that
insurance was properly considered as an alternative.
Summary
I accept that Mr D was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like attractive 
features to Mr D. But Hugh James wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr D needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was very likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr D should not have been recommended to transfer to 
achieve flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed, and the potential for higher or 
different death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB 
scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to 
a personal pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, I think Hugh James shouldve advised Mr D not to transfer out of the scheme and to opt 
into the BSPS2 instead.
I appreciate the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But I think
everything pointed to it likely going ahead, so this ought to have been the position Hugh 
James adopted. Because Mr Ds retirement plans werent fully formulated and he indicated 
hed likely retire between 60 and 65, I don't think that it would've been in his best interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age - if his needs demanded it. Also, Mr D was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr D chose to do so). 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2. So I think Hugh James shouldve advised Mr D to opt-into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against Hugh 
James advice.Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on
transferring out of the BSPS against its advice if things had happened as they should
have and it had recommended he opt into the BSPS2. I say this because, while as Ive
already said, Mr D was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Hugh James, on 
balance, I still think Mr D wouldve listened to and followed its advice. As Hugh James 
recorded, Mr D was an inexperienced investor, so I dont think he possessed the requisite 
skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice he was given, particularly in complex 
pension matters. Mr Ds pension accounted for the majority of his private retirement 
provision at the time and in my view, his attitude to risk was more cautious than Hugh James 
assessed it as. So, if Hugh James had provided Mr D with clear advice against transferring 
out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about the scheme were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So if Hugh 
James had explained that Mr D could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if Hugh James had given suitable advice 
that he not do so and that he should opt into the BSPS2 instead.
In light of the above, I think KBFS should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I've thought about Mr D's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr D would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr D 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr D for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr D. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Hugh James which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr D. Taking everything into account, including that I 
consider Mr Ds retirement provision is of great importance to him given its significance in his 
overall retirement income provision and his age, I think the unsuitable advice has caused 
him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Hugh James must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Hugh James should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Hugh James based 
the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Hugh James should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Hugh James offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Hugh James may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Hugh James should also pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable 
advice has caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hugh James Solicitors 
to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Hugh James Solicitors pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Hugh James Solicitors.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman