DRN-4084632
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont reimburse her for the money she lost 
when she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) lottery scam.
What happened
Mrs S sadly fell victim to a cruel scam whereby she believed she had won a national lottery 
abroad. Mrs S made multiple payments from her Lloyds account (and from accounts she 
held at other banking providers). The payments were for various fees and taxes in order to 
obtain her winnings which sadly never materialised.
The payments Mrs S made from her Lloyds account happened between 2009 and 2016. 
Mrs S says she realised she had fallen victim to a scam having made a payment on 
15 March 2016 from her Lloyds account. Mrs S says she reported the matter to Lloyds and 
her other banking providers at this time. Mrs S has said she was told by all her banking 
providers at the time that nothing could be done.
Unfortunately, in 2017, Mrs S fell victim to another similar lottery scam and made payments 
under the belief that they were to obtain her winnings. A payment in June 2018 was declined 
by Lloyds as it was concerned about the reason Mrs S gave for the payment. Lloyds invited 
Mrs S into branch to discuss the payment and, as it was still concerned, invoked the 
Banking Protocol and contacted the police. The contact with the police seemingly broke the 
spell in 2018 and, for a period, Mrs S didnt make any further payments. Lloyds tried to 
recover the funds Mrs S had sent (approximately £47,500) but was unsuccessful and 
advised Mrs S of this in July 2018.
Sadly the scammers remained in contact with Mrs S, and Mrs S, unfortunately made further 
payments in March and April 2019 to try and obtain her winnings. Mrs S made four 
payments in this period totalling £14,095 before contacting the police as she hadnt received 
her winnings / prize.
The police notified Lloyds. Lloyds contacted the receiving banks to try and recover the funds 
but were unsuccessful. Lloyds also declined re-imbursing Mrs S for her losses and ultimately 
Mrs Ss complaint about the payments made in 2017  2019 was referred to our service in 
July 2019.
The complaint about the payments made towards the scam that happened between 2017 
and 2019 was considered by our service under a separate reference number. 
Our Investigator upheld Mrs S complaint in March 2020. Both Lloyds and Mrs S agreed with 
the outcome reached and the case was resolved on 7 July 2020. Mrs S was ultimately 
refunded all of her payments made towards the scam in 2017- 2019 barring the very first 
payment which the Investigator thought wasnt remarkable enough to warrant intervention by 
Lloyds. In total Mrs S was refunded £59,685 plus an additional amount for compensatory 
interest and an amount was also awarded for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs S revisited matters regarding the payments she had made towards the scam that took 
place between 2009-2016 and contacted our service on 3 September 2020. Mrs S requested 
statements from Lloyds on 14 September 2020 and then referred her complaint about Lloyds 
(and two other banking providers) to our service in October 2020.
Lloyds, after receiving contact from our service, incorrectly considered Mrs S complaint was 
a duplicate and thought it was in relation to the payments made in 2017-2019.
During the course of investigations into her other complaints about other banking providers, 
Mrs S confirmed she remained unhappy about the payments she had made from her Lloyds 
account towards the scam that took place between 2009-2016.
Our Investigator obtained statements from Lloyds covering the period 2009-2016 and went 
through all the payments Mrs S had made to capture the payments Mrs S had made that 
were as a result of the scam she had fallen victim to.
After going through the statements and working out what payments Mrs S had made and 
those which Lloyds werent aware Mrs S wanted to complain about, our Investigator 
compiled a list of the payments she was disputing and informed Lloyds. Within the list of 
payments put to Lloyds there was one payment of £1,000 that Mrs S was sure she had 
made from her Lloyds account  but wasnt showing on the statements.
Lloyds issued a final response letter to Mrs S on 10 September 2022 declining to refund the 
payments Mrs S had made between 2009 and 2016. And it also explained that it didnt think 
the matter could be investigated due to the time that had passed. Lloyds recognised that 
when the matter was brought to its attention in October 2020 it incorrectly assumed that the 
complaint was in relation to the scam that had taken place in 2017-2019. For its error it 
awarded £100 compensation.
Mrs S, unhappy that she hadnt been refunded her losses, asked our Investigator to look into 
it. Mrs S believed that all the payments she had made between 2009 and 2016 should be 
looked at and that Lloyds should have done more to protect her. Mrs S considered Lloyds 
should reimburse her losses.
Our Investigator reviewed the matter. They concluded that on the majority of the payments 
Mrs S had made, they were brought to us out of time, according to our rules. And our 
Investigator didnt think that exceptional circumstances had prevented Mrs S from pursuing 
her complaint within the time limits allowed. 
The Investigator concluded that for six of the later payments  made from 26 February 2015 
until 15 March 2016 our service did have the power to consider those payments as they 
were referred to us in time.
And our Investigator concluded that on the six payments that were referred to us in time, 
Lloyds could have done more for Mrs S and intervened on three of the payments (the last 
three payments made)  and had it done, the scam would have likely been revealed and the 
payments would have been prevented. However our Investigator thought Mrs S should 
share some responsibility for the loss as they were a number of concerning factors that 
Mrs S should reasonably have questioned. So they thought there was enough going on that 
Mrs S should reasonably have had a cause for concern before making the payments.
Our Investigator recommended Lloyds refund Mrs S 50% of the last three payments and pay 
additional compensatory interest on that amount at 8% simple from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement.Lloyds agreed with the Investigators opinion.
Mrs S disagreed. Mrs S considered that all of the payments made toward the scam from 
2009-2016 should be considered. And Mrs S considered she should be reimbursed in full.
As Mrs S disagreed with our Investigators opinion on the payments they considered were 
out of jurisdiction  because they were brought to our service to late under the rules we have 
to apply  a separate decision (under a different complaint reference with our service) was 
issued. 
I was the deciding ombudsman and issued a decision whereby I deemed that the payments 
in question (18 payments Mrs S made from 15 April 2009 up to and including a payment 
made on 16 June 2014) were referred to our service too late under the time limits and rules 
we have to apply. So I didnt have the power to consider Mrs Ss complaint about the 
payments she made on 15 April 2009 up to and including a payment made on 16 June 2014.
This complaint reference, and this final decision, focuses on the payments that our service 
has the power to consider  that being the six payments made toward the scam from  
26 February 2015 until 15 March 2016. 
Mrs S considers she should be reimbursed in full for these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
It is the case that Mrs S authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means Mrs S is responsible for them. That remains the case even though 
Mrs S was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or insome cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Taking the above into consideration, in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S when she made the transfers, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
The payments Mrs S made (that I have the power to consider within this complaint) are as 
follows:
Date Transaction Amount
26/02/2015 Faster Payment £450
27/02/2015 Faster Payment £500
29/05/2015 Faster Payment £2,200
01/02/2016 Faster Payment £4,934
07/03/2016 Faster Payment £4,934
15/03/2016 Faster Payment £4,934
Having looked at Mrs Ss account history  she had made a number of payments in and 
around the amounts listed above. However, our Investigator thought that as Mrs S didnt use 
online or mobile banking then it was likely that the payments were completed in branch or 
through telephone banking. So our Investigator thought the first three payments  werent so 
remarkable whereby Lloyds ought to have been concerned that Mrs S was at risk of financial 
harm. But the later three payments were of a sizeable amount each time and Lloyds ought to 
have asked some questions about the purpose of the payments to ensure that Mrs S wasnt 
at risk of financial harm.
Lloyds agreed with the Investigators opinion that it could have intervened and made some 
additional checks with Mrs S about the last three payments. And having considered this 
aspect I agree also. I dont think the first three payments would have led Lloyds to have been 
concerned that Mrs S maybe at risk of financial harm. But when Mrs S was making a larger 
payment  which was more likely than not either made in branch or over the telephone  
then Lloyds had the opportunity to discuss the payments and should have satisfied itself that 
Mrs S wasnt at risk of financial harm.
 
Lloyds accepts it could have done more to identify and prevent Mrs S from the risk of 
financial harm on the last three payments, and it agreed with our Investigators opinion to 
refund 50% of those payments.
So, now, all that is left for me to decide is whether Mrs S should bear some responsibility for 
the loss also.
Having carefully considered this aspect  I think there was enough going on by the time 
Mrs S was making these payments that she should have had serious concerns about what 
she was being asked to do and the purpose for the payments. So I think it is fair that Mrs S 
shares some responsibility for the loss.
I say this because while Mrs S fell victim to a cruel scam  in which she thought she had 
won the lottery; I am mindful that by the time Mrs S was making payments from February 2015 and onwards, she had previously made payments from her Lloyds account 
and from her accounts with other providers between 2009-2015 in order to obtain what she 
thought was her winnings. And Mrs S had made payments for various fees and taxes and 
her winnings never materialised over the duration of those years. Mrs S should reasonably 
have questioned the plausibility of things when making the payments in light of the payments 
she had made over a number of years previously. 
So I think it is reasonable to conclude that by the time Mrs S made these payments (from 
February 2015 onwards) she should have had serious concerns that all wasnt as it seemed, 
and that it was likely that she was falling victim to a scam and that she hadnt in fact won the 
lottery. And given what had happened in previous years Mrs S should have been wary about 
making any further payments and questioned what she was being asked to do. I think it is 
reasonable to say that Mrs S should have known that something wasnt right and could have 
mitigated her losses here. I therefore consider it fair that she shares equal responsibility for 
the losses incurred.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to recover Mrs Ss funds once it 
was made aware she was the victim of a scam. Unfortunately, by the time matters were 
raised, a considerable amount of time had passed. Fraudsters typically move or withdraw 
the funds on as quickly as they can in case the scam is reported, and an account is blocked / 
frozen. So I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of Lloyds being able to recover 
the funds Mrs S had sent years previously. So I cant fairly say Lloyds could have done more 
here given the time that had passed since the payments had been made.
I note Lloyds awarded Mrs S £100 for the level of service it provided when it incorrectly 
assumed Mrs Ss complaint was a duplicate complaint. I think this is a fair amount in the 
circumstances as the error was easily avoidable and caused unessecarry confusion and a 
delay. And Im glad that Lloyds recognised this also and proactively offered an amount to 
reflect that the error shouldnt have occurred. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold, in part, Mrs Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.  
I now direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund £7,401 (which is 50% of the three payments Mrs S made from 
1 February 2016 until 15 March 2016).
Pay additional interest on that amount at 8% simple interest. This should be 
calculated from the date Mrs S made each transfer (the date of the loss) until the 
date of settlement. 
I consider 8% simple interest to be a pragmatic and fair amount to award as 
additional compensation. I say this because Mrs S cant recall the source of the funds 
due to the time that has passed and Im mindful that, ultimately, she has been 
deprived of the use of those funds. And I note Lloyds didnt object to this when it 
agreed with our Investigators opinion on how this matter should be resolved.
Pay £100 compensation for the level of service it provided to Mrs S (if this hasnt 
been paid already)
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Lloyds Bank PLC must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
 
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman