DRN-1149996
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he was unable to change the car on his policy arranged by
IGO4 Limited. He feels IGO4 should have made this clear when he took his policy out. 
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy arranged through IGO4. The policy required the insured 
car be fitted with a telematics box that records how the car is driven.
After having his policy in place for some time Mr S was looking to change his car and 
therefore update the policy with the new details. Before he changed his car, Mr S checked 
the cost of changing the car on his policy. But IGO4 explained they were unable to offer a 
quote on that type of car.
Mr S said that IGO4 should have explained from the outset that not all cars could be covered 
under his policy as he wouldnt have taken it out.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and didnt think it was unreasonable that IGO4 
hadnt given more information about the different cars the policy would cover. He said the 
policy terms explained that not all changes would be possible.
Mr S disagreed with our Investigator, so this complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not unusual that insurers only accept certain types of vehicle on their policies. Motor 
insurance is generally an annually renewable policy, and while it's common for policy holders 
to change their cars mid-way through the year the insurer is not obligated to replace the car 
being covered on the policy if it is a car the policy wouldnt cover.
IGO4 has explained that the car Mr S wanted to add to his policy wasnt acceptable by the 
insurer of the policy, so it was unable to add it. 
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions and they state:
"Changes to your Policy will be subject to your insurer agreeing to them. Some amendments 
may not be acceptable, or may result in different terms, extra costs
and/or fees
I think this is clear and I wouldnt expect IGO4 to have listed the different cars that would be accepted under the policy from the outset.
Mr S was also concerned about the no claims discount (NCD) he was accruing not being 
transferred to a new policy. The NCD is accrued at the end of each year of insurance so if 
Mr S was to cancel his current policy part way through the year, he wouldnt have accrued a 
full year. So I cant say IGO4 should give Mr S a further year of 
NCD.                                                                             
With the above in mind I dont think IGO4 has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman