DRN-3857465
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam. 
Mr T is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
In 2016 Mr T was the victim of an investment scam offered by a firm that Ill refer to as R. 
Mr T and his wife had inherited funds from his mother-in-law and he came across R after 
looking for better interest rates on the internet  with R appearing near the top of the search 
results. And, after browsing Rs website, he found a guaranteed savings plan most promising 
 which, for a minimum 12-month term, offered a 4.9% interest rate per annum.
Mr T and his wife thought about the investment opportunity for several weeks and decided to 
proceed. He spoke with R and was told the investment would provide dividends of £200 per 
month on top of the yearly interest. R gave Mr T instructions to pay the £50,000 investment 
across five payments, which he did:
Date Type Amount
28 September 2016 Faster payment £10,000
29 September 2016 Faster payment £10,000
30 September 2016 Faster payment £10,000
2 October 2016 Faster payment £10,000
3 October 2016 Faster payment £10,000
Total: £50,000
After making the payments, Mr T remained in contact with R and was able to access his 
account showing the savings plan (assuring him it was legitimate). Around the beginning of 
November however, he received a call from a financial exchange firm  which he recalls was 
the same firm R claimed was facilitating the savings plan. This firm advised Mr T that they 
thought hed been scammed and sent letters confirming this. Mr T was startled at being told 
this but, while he grew suspicious, he received his £199.05 payment from the investment 
plan on 9 November 2016 as expected (thereby making his loss £49,800.95). 
Mr T nevertheless asked R whether he could withdraw the £50,000 and was told it would 
arrive in ten working days. The funds werent received and, at this point, Mr T realised he 
been scammed. Although HSBC have no record of this, Mr T has said he contacted them in 
December 2016 to report the scam but he was advised they couldnt help. 
C complained to HSBC, on Mr Ts behalf, in September 2022 about these payments. In 
short, they said:
Unbeknown to Mr T, R was a cloned firm. The website Mr T browsed appeared 
professional and genuine as it contained information such as Rs company number, a 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) caveat and a detailed About Us section. Rs 
company address also showed it was a UK based firm. 
The scammers cloned a legitimate firm and all correspondence and software 
appeared genuine. Mr T spoke with several members of R who likewise came across 
professional and created a corporate like aura, as well as reinstating everything 
found on their website. R werent pushy and they allowed Mr T time to deliberate the 
offer before committing. 
Mr T checked companies house and R was registered as active. This, along with the 
above, gave him a reasonable basis to believe the firm  and investment opportunity 
- was genuine. 
HSBC failed in their duty of care to protect Mr T from this scam. The payments were 
for significantly more than Mr T used his account for and being made to a new payee. 
And so, HSBC shouldve recognised them to be unusual and intervened  making 
basic enquiries and asking probing questions. All payments however were debited 
from Mr Ts account without any intervention or warning received from HSBC. 
Had HSBC stepped in and asked more probing questions, the customer wouldnt 
have proceeded with making the payments. To settle the complaint, Mr T would 
accept reimbursement of the monies lost. 
In addition to raising the matter with HSBC in December 2016, Mr T also reported the 
matter to Action Fruad and his local MP. He therefore took appropriate steps to try 
and mitigate his loss once he knew hed been scammed.
HSBC rejected the complaint. They explained theyd notified the beneficiary bank of the 
scam allegation, asking them to review the situation and where possible return any 
remaining funds. But, as the payments were made before 28 May 2019, theyre not covered 
by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) and so they wouldnt provide a refund. 
C referred Mr Ts complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator thought the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought HSBC shouldve stopped the first £10,000 
payment and enquired with Mr T about what it was for before releasing it. If this had 
happened, she considered it likely HSBC wouldve warned Mr T about investment scams. 
And although a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning about R being cloned wasnt 
published until after the scam payments were made, its likely a scam conversation wouldve 
prompted Mr T to check the FCA register as to whether R was an authorised firm, which they 
werent. As this was contrary to what R said on their website, Mr T wouldve recognised it to 
be a scam. 
Because of this, our Investigator didnt think Mr T wouldve proceeded with making the 
payments and so they should be refunded (less the £199.05 credit). She also didnt think the 
amount should be reduced due to contributory negligence on Mr Ts part, as she didnt think 
the returns appeared too good to be true for someone who wasnt an expert in investments.
C confirmed Mr Ts acceptance of our Investigators recommendation. HSBC didnt agree, 
and so the matter has been passed to me decide. 
HSBC added:
Mr T came across the scam from an internet search but theres no explanation about 
what comparative searches he carried out to establish if it was a genuine investment. And the 4.9% interest rate offered, along with monthly dividends of £200, on a 
£50,000 investment was the equivalent of an annual return of more than 7%. Given 
the low Bank of England base rate at that time, an investment providing this rate of 
return with no risk was too good to be true. 
A reasonable person wouldnt have invested £50,000 on a speculative investment 
within less than a week. 
The payments happened in 2016 but the standards against which their actions are to 
be assessed were different than they are today. The payments predate the 
introduction of the British Standards Institute code of practice (PAS 17271: Protecting 
customers from financial harm as result of fraud or financial abuse), on which the 
Financial Ombudsman often relies upon. The suggestion they ought to have 
automatically flagged a transaction that was higher than Mr T had previously made, 
for an unspecified past period, appears to assess this complaint by reference to more 
recent standards.  
Even if theyd spoke with Mr T, they dont accept it wouldve stopped him investing. It 
is clear Mr T was taken in by persuasive scammers and he would more than likely 
have preferred what they had to say rather than a generic warning from themselves. 
And they couldve only warned Mr T generally about the risks of investments as the 
FCA warning about R being cloned hadnt yet been published. 
They also noted further reasons why Mr T wouldve likely proceeded:
oMr Ts complaint submission explains he deliberated with his wife for several 
weeks before contacting R and then dealt with them for six days before 
starting to make the payments. This wouldve meant he was convinced by the 
investment and wouldve assured HSBC, had they spoken with him, that hed 
considered it carefully.
oMr T received a telephone call from the financial exchange firm telling him 
hed been scammed. At this point, the FCA warning was available. 
Notwithstanding this warning, Mr T didnt apparently accept it was a scam 
until mid-November 2016 when he didnt receive the funds from R. Given that 
the warning from the financial exchange firm wouldve been far stronger than 
what they couldve given, Mr T didnt accept it was a scam until a later stage. 
Therefore, its far more likely he wouldnt have responded to a generic 
warning from his bank. 
An important consideration is Mr Ts own conduct and whether he can be found to 
have caused, or at least contributed to, his own losses. They refer to:
oSection 1C(d) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their 
decisions.
oSection 53(d) of the Financial Services (Bank reform) Act 2013 that sets out 
the general principle that those who use services provided by payments 
systems should take responsibility for their decisions. 
And so, as noted above, the investment as presented was too good to be true and 
there isnt any evidence to show Mr T carried out comparative searches on the 
returns and investment arrangement presented to him. Combined with Mr T not 
acting cautiously, this was not reasonable conduct.It appears Mr T ignored warning signs in favour of generating unrealistic returns, 
paying over large sums without properly ensuring they were towards a legitimate 
arrangement. A reduction therefore of at least 50% should be applied to any refund 
as a result  as, even where it is found HSBC may have missed an opportunity to 
provide a warning, that doesnt absolve Mr T of all responsibility
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM code didnt come into effect 
until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply retrospectively. This means, as Mr Ts payments were 
made before this, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered 
whether HSBC should reimburse Mr T under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr T knowingly made the payments from his HSBC account. I appreciate Mr T was tricked 
by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr T. So, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 and the terms of his account, HSBC are expected to process the 
payments and Mr T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
At which point, Im aware HSBC has questioned the standards of which these payments are 
being assessed. And theyve correctly pointed out that the payments predate the introduction 
of the British Standards Institute code of practice PAS 17271. But, while Ive not considered 
these payments against this, I have taken into consideration the following:
Regulated firms, like HSBC, are required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6).
Firms have had a longstanding duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R)
The Financial Services Authority (the predecessor the FCA) released a thematic review 
paper in 2012, Banks defences against investment fraud  Detecting perpetrators and 
protecting victims. This set out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice 
found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime. And Im 
satisfied this paper, along with SYSC 3.2.6R, is of relevance to sending banks. This, in 
my view, is shown in the paper as it considered banks efforts to counter fraud where the customer is the victim, in light of the regulatory obligation to counter the risk that 
regulated firms might be used to further financial crime  including fraud. 
Im therefore satisfied that HSBC ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various 
risks including preventing fraud and scams. To do this, HSBC shouldve had systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions, or other signs, that its customers were at risk of fraud. 
And carried out additional checks before processing a payment or, declined the payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr T to HSBC (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr Ts account usage before the scam occurred, it was typically used for 
low value day to day spending  transactions below £100. There were a few exceptions to 
this but, in the 12 months prior to the scam payments, no transactions exceeded £1,000. 
The first £10,000 payment Mr T made to the scammers on 28 September 2016 was 
therefore significantly greater than how he typically used his account. And given the payment 
was being made a new payee, I think HSBC ought to have identified it as unusual and that 
Mr T was potentially at risk of financial harm from fraud. So, I think HSBC shouldve held the 
payment and spoken with Mr T before releasing it. 
Had HSBC done so, I think its likely Mr T wouldve explained the purpose of the transfer  
that being for investment purposes. At which point, given HSBC have a greater 
understanding of investment scams and their prevalence, it wouldve been reasonable for 
HSBC to have questioned Mr T about it further. And, while I wouldnt have expected HSBC 
to have given investment advice, I think this conversation ought to have gone beyond a 
generic warning as HSBC has suggested. Instead, I think HSBC shouldve given appropriate 
warnings to Mr T about the risk of investment scams and tailored their questioning and 
advice to Mr T based on his specific circumstances. 
Having given this careful thought, I think this wouldve involved HBSC asking Mr T how he 
came across the investment opportunity and what checks hed carried out to ensure R was a 
legitimate firm. While Mr T had checked companies house, I think appropriate questioning 
wouldve included whether hed also checked the FCA register to see if R was an authorised 
firm (thereby ensuring his investment funds received the relevant regulatory protection). As I 
have no reason to think Mr T wouldnt have answered this honestly, I think he wouldve told 
HSBC he hadnt checked the FCA register. At which point, I consider it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect HSBC to have recommended Mr T do so before proceeding with the 
investment (and making the first payment). 
I understand HSBC dont think an intervention wouldve made a difference as they consider 
Mr T wouldve put greater reliance on what he was told by R. And that he was already 
convinced by the investment as hed deliberated over it with his wife for several weeks. Ive 
thought about this but I disagree. I think Mr Ts deliberation demonstrates a cautiousness 
regarding the investment opportunity. And so, while he was sadly tricked by the scammers, I 
think its likely he wouldve taken advice from his bank seriously. 
I note HSBC has also suggested that Mr Ts actions, after being notified by the financial 
exchange firm hed been scammed, show he wouldve likely proceeded with the investment 
even if theyd spoken with before releasing the payment(s). This is because Mr T didnt 
initially seem to accept the investment was a scam until mid-November 2016  and any 
warning given by the financial exchange firm wouldve been far stronger than what they 
couldve provided. While I accept Mr T may not have fully accepted hed been scammed 
immediately after being contacted by the financial exchange firm, I think this was understandable in the circumstances. I consider it was reasonable for Mr T to try to withdraw 
his funds to confirm this suspicion. And so it was only at the point the funds werent received, 
and he lost contact with R, that Mr T could be sure hed been scammed. It follows that, had 
HSBC recommended to Mr T that he should check the FCA register to see if R was an 
authorised firm, I think its likely he wouldve done so before proceeding with the first 
payment. 
Upon checking the FCA register, Mr T wouldve become aware R wasnt an authorised firm 
and therefore unable to undertake regulated activities - including providing investment 
advice. This wouldve put Mr T on notice that R, and the investment opportunity they were 
offering, werent legitimate. Because of this, I think its reasonable to assume Mr T wouldnt 
have proceeded with making the first payment or the following four payments that followed. I 
therefore consider HSBC couldve prevented Mr Ts loss occurring.
As HSBC has pointed out, Mr T likewise had a responsibility to protect himself from the 
scam. And so, Ive thought about whether he did enough here.
Mr T found R after carrying out an internet search to find better interest rates for the 
inheritance funds he and his wife had received. HSBC question what comparative searches 
he carried out and argue that the returns offered by R were too good to be true at that time. 
So, they think Mr T didnt act reasonably by proceeding with the investment  particularly by 
investing the full £50,000 in such a short period of time. 
I cant be sure what comparative interest rate searches Mr T undertook at the time. But while 
I acknowledge HSBCs point regarding the high return being offered, I dont think it was so 
excessive that an inexperienced investor would realise it wasnt legitimate. I think the returns 
offered by R were at a level where it wouldve appeared plausible to Mr T, and thereby an 
attractive option. Because of this, I dont think I can fairly conclude the investment wouldve 
been seen by Mr T as being too good to be true (and given him cause for concern). 
Ive also considered that R cloned a genuine firm. And so, unfortunately, although I think 
Mr T acted reasonably by checking companies house, this wrongly assured him he was 
dealing with a legitimate firm. And, as the FCA warning hadnt yet been published, Mr T 
wouldnt have had reason to think otherwise. Furthermore, the various people Mr T dealt 
with at R came across as extremely professional, and Mr T likewise found their website and 
correspondence to be genuine. And so, I think it was understandable why Mr T felt he was 
dealing with a legitimate firm and decided to proceed with the investment. Given Mr T was 
satisfied of Rs legitimacy and attracted by the investment opportunity offered, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for him to invest the full £50,000. Im not persuaded Mr T had sufficient 
reason to doubt the security of the funds he was investing at that time (without the 
intervention from HSBC).
Ive thought about what other checks Mr T couldve done, including whether he couldve 
checked the FCA register - without the direction of HSBC - to see if R was an authorised 
firm. But, having done so, I wouldnt necessarily expect an inexperienced investor to know 
about the FCA register or that investment firms must be authorised to carry out regulated 
activities. And so, after taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mr T was grossly 
negligent or negligent to an extent that it would be fair and reasonable to reduce the award 
based on contributory negligence in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It follows that, to put things right, I think HSBC should refund Mr T £49,800.95  that being 
the £50,000 he invested less the £199.05 credit he received.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to refund Mr T 
the £49,800.95 he lost from the scam.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman