DRN-3902703
The complaint
Miss E complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) through its agents 
failed to deal adequately with her claim concerning an offensive smell in her property. Miss E 
is a vulnerable person who suffers from a disability due to her health.
What happened
On or about 23 February 2022 Miss E contacted RSA about an offensive smell in her house. 
RSA agreed to carry out a trace and access investigation to find the source of the smell and 
to see whether there was a leak. It sent out its contractors, C. C visited in early March but 
couldnt identify the source of the smell. They carried out further investigations, which 
required digging a hole in the bedroom floor. They identified that the manhole needed 
re-routing. The hole in the bedroom was boarded over in April 2022. C reported back to 
Miss E that the claim would be declined due to faulty workmanship, but agreed to quote for 
the re-routing of the manhole on a private basis. The quote was for around £3,400.
Miss E was disappointed with the service she received and complained to RSA. It responded 
on 13 May 2022 to say that C wasnt at fault. Miss E appointed another contractor to look at 
the issue. That contractor advised that it wasnt Miss Es manhole that was the source of the 
problem, but that it related to a drainage run which belonged to the local water authority.
The water authority came out and advised that the problem lay with a manhole partly under 
the neighbours garden. The problem was resolved as I understand it by about 9 June 2022.
Miss E then spent several months chasing to get the hole in her bedroom floor filled in and 
repaired. This was eventually done by October 2022.
Miss E raised a number of new issues unrelated to the issues in this complaint. These are 
being dealt with under a separate complaint.
Our Investigator considered the complaints concerning the handling of the claim and the 
reinstatement. She said that RSA was at fault for the delays and its contractors failing to 
identify where the smell was coming from. She proposed that RSA pay £400 compensation.
Belatedly RSA provided a further final response letter dated 21 November 2022, though not 
received by our Investigator until after she had provided her view. This letter addressed not 
only the issues dealt with in this decision but other issues which form part of the separate 
complaint. RSA paid Miss E £300 compensation in respect of the way the claim had been 
handled.
Miss E didnt agree that the compensation payment was sufficient. RSA said it is prepared to 
pay a further £100.
As the matter couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the handling of the claim
I think RSA acted initially expeditiously in getting contractors out to deal with the offensive 
smell  its often difficult under home insurance policies to cover this sort of issue. 
Nevertheless, I dont think its contractors handled the issue very well. I bear in mind that 
when Miss E instructed different private contractors in May 2022, they identified that the 
problem didnt relate to the area under Miss Es bedroom at all. They immediately referred 
her to the water authority, who resolved the problem within a couple of weeks. I think RSAs 
contractors were at fault here.
This meant that Miss E had to continue putting up with the smell coming from the drains. 
And I understand this was particularly bad in Miss Es case due to her health problems. 
I appreciate that during that time RSA paid for her to have periods of respite in hotels. But if 
Miss E hadnt instructed different contractors, she might have ended up with having to pay 
over £3,400 for unnecessary re-routing of the manhole. I think that if RSAs contractors had 
diagnosed the issue Miss E would have had the problem resolved at least a couple of 
months earlier than she did. 
delays
After the drain problem was resolved RSAs contractors had to reinstate the area of the 
bedroom floor which they had dug up. Yet this took until October 2022 to carry out, around 
four months from when the drain was resolved. I understand that there were some issues 
with moving furniture. But considering that in the early part of the claim those contractors 
were able to come out quite quickly, no real explanation has been given for this delay. It  
does appear though that there was some miscommunication in that the contractors told 
Miss E they were  waiting for authorisation from RSA whereas RSA was just waiting for the 
contractors to put forward a date for their availability. I consider that this caused Miss E more 
inconvenience from just having the issue unresolved and from having to keep chasing up.
private quotes 
I understand that, when the contractors were planning to carry out the private work, Miss E 
was unhappy with their quote and with the delay in providing this. Regrettably this was 
something done outside the terms of the policy. So, I dont think that RSA was responsible 
for this.
compensation
I think Miss E should be compensated for the delays which meant that the issue of the 
offensive smell was sorted out later than it should have been, and in reinstating the floor. 
Taking into account her vulnerability, I think that a payment of £400 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is reasonable.
Looking at RSAs final response letter of 21 November 2022, the only complaint it upheld 
was that relating to the handling of the claim i.e. the issue Ive dealt with in this decision. So, 
I think the £300 paid did related just to this complaint. Ive not considered the other matters 
in that final response letter  they will be considered as part of the other complaint which this 
service is looking at. This does mean though that RSA will need to pay just a further £100 to 
Miss E. Putting things right
RSA should pay Miss E £400 compensation. It has paid £300 of this so it should pay the 
balance of £100.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman