DRN-2942063
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted an account and recorded the default on his
credit file.  
What happened
Mr E had a Lloyds bank account that had been set up some years previously as a joint
account with his then wife. Mr E had since separated from his wife but continued to use the
account, which continued to remain in both Mr Es and his ex-wifes joint names.
In April 2019, Mr E was informed by his ex-wife that she was entering an IVA and that the
joint account would be included in that IVA, which would mean that the account would be
closed. Shortly afterwards, the account was closed by Lloyds, although Mr E received no
notification from Lloyds about this.
A few weeks later, Mr E became aware that a default had been recorded on his credit file
relating to this account. Mr E contacted Lloyds and was told that the account had been
overdrawn by approximately £900 at the time that it was closed, and that Mr E was liable for
the debt. Lloyds advised Mr E that if he could clear the balance within the next 60 days then
Lloyds would be willing to remove the default from his credit file.
Unfortunately, Mr E wasnt able to clear the balance within 60 days, and so Lloyds withdrew
the offer to remove the default from his credit file. Mr E wasnt happy about this, so he made
a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Es complaint. They explained that because one of the joint account
holders had entered into an IVA, the account had to be closed, and that Mr E was liable for
the balance that remained outstanding at that time.
Lloyds acknowledged that they should have given Mr E 60 days notice that they were
intending to default the account, and it was for that reason that they gave Mr E a 60 day
period during which they would remove the default from Mr Es credit file if Mr E could have
paid the outstanding balance. Lloyds felt that this offer had given Mr E the same opportunity
to pay that he should have been provided with before the default was applied, and given that
Mr E hadnt made a payment during that time, they felt that, ultimately, the default had been
applied correctly.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that the 60 day period that
Lloyds had given Mr E to make the payment was fair, and so they also didnt uphold this
complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 June 2021 as follows:
I can understand how it must have been disappointing for Mr E to have discovered 
that Lloyds had recorded a default on his credit file for the outstanding balance that 
had been present on this account at the time that it had been closed, especially given 
that Lloyds hadnt notified Mr E of their intention to do so.
In circumstances such as this, where one of the joint account holders has entered an 
IVA which had necessitated the closing of the joint account, what this service would 
expect is that the business would contact the account holder who hasnt entered into 
an IVA  in this instance, Mr E  and explain why the account was being closed and 
what might happen moving forwards.
And this would be especially the case where there was an outstanding balance on 
the account at the time of the account closure that the account holder in Mr Es 
position would be considered as being liable for.
But Lloyds didnt contact Mr E, and Mr E only learned that Lloyds had subsequently
defaulted the account when he noticed the default on his credit file. This doesnt feel 
fair to me.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that Lloyds should be instructed to 
remove the default from Mr Es credit file. And I say this because, ultimately, there 
was an outstanding balance on the account for which Mr E was liable.
Lloyds have confirmed that their usual process when commencing default 
proceedings is to give a customer a 60 period to clear the outstanding balance owed 
on the account and thus to avoid the account being defaulted.
It was for this reason  in recognition of the fact that Mr E hadnt been given such a 
60 day period  that Lloyds advised Mr E that if he could clear the balance within the 
next 60 days then Lloyds would remove the default from his credit file as if it had 
never been recorded.
By making this offer to Mr E, Im satisfied that Lloyds did effectively put Mr E in the 
position that he should have been in before the default was applied. Specifically, 
Lloyds ensured that Mr E did receive the 60 day period he should have received 
during which he could clear the outstanding balance so that no default would be 
recorded on his credit file.
Unfortunately, Mr E wasnt able to clear the outstanding balance during this time, and 
while I can sympathise with the difficult personal circumstances that Mr E 
encountered during this time, I dont feel that I can fairly conclude that Lloyds acted 
unfairly to unreasonably towards Mr E by declining to remove the default from his 
account following Mr E not making the necessary payment within the 60 day period 
that he was given to do so.
As such, given that Mr E was liable for the balance on the account, and given that he
ultimately wasnt able to make the payment necessary to clear the account within the
timeframe given for the defaulting of the account to be avoided, I dont feel that the 
default has been applied unfairly to Mr Es credit file here, and it follows from this that 
I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Es complaint.However, I can understand how it could have been upsetting for Mr E that Lloyds 
didnt provide him with appropriate notice in the first instance that they were intending 
to default his account, and I do feel that Mr E has incurred a degree of upset that 
could have been avoided had Lloyds been clearer in their communication with him.
As such, I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Es favour on the basis 
that they didnt communicate with Mr E as they should have done only, and my 
provisional instruction will be that Lloyds must make a payment of £100 to Mr E by 
way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he incurred as a result.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr E and Lloyds the opportunity to provide any 
comments of additional information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Lloyds didnt submit any further information. However, Mr E did provide some 
additional comments that he wished me to consider.
Mr E explained that he felt that, had Lloyds informed him of the outstanding balance before 
the account was defaulted, he would have been able to have made the necessary payment 
to avoid the default. However, Mr E explained that at the time Lloyds gave him the 60 day 
period in which to make the payment - such that the default would be removed - his personal 
circumstances were such that his attention was, understandably, elsewhere. This meant that 
he wasnt able to make the required payment at that time.
Mr E also felt that Lloyds should never have defaulted the account in the first instance 
without contacting him. And, having acknowledged that the account had been defaulted 
without Mr E being contacted, Lloyds should have removed the default entirely - rather than 
offer Mr E a 60 day period in which to make the necessary payment to then have the default 
removed. 
Finally, Mr E also feels that its tangibly unfair that a default should be recorded on his credit 
file through no fault of his own, given that this was a joint account that was closed because 
the other account holder went into an IVA and Mr E wasnt adequately notified of the 
possibility of a default being recorded against his name and the need to make a payment 
towards the account in order to avoid this.
I can appreciate Mr Es position here, especially regarding the difficult personal 
circumstances he faced at that time. However, Im still not convinced that Lloyds have acted 
unfairly here, for the following reasons:
To begin, I cant concur with Mr Es assertion that these events have taken place entirely at 
no fault of his own. Mr E was aware that the account was a joint account and he was told by 
the other account holder that they were going into an IVA. As an account holder himself, Mr 
E must bear a degree of responsibility for the management of the account, and he could 
have investigated himself the consequences of a joint account holder entering an IVA, 
including the implications for the remaining account holder.
And, while I can understand how Mr E might have felt that Lloyds should have removed the 
default when they acknowledged that they hadnt informed Mr E previously that the account 
was in the process of being defaulted for non-payment, the removal of the default in such 
circumstances wouldnt have negated the outstanding balance due on the account or the 
need for it to be paid for the possibility of a default to have been avoided. 
In such circumstances, if Lloyds had removed the default, it would have been expected that 
they would have given Mr E the same 60-day period to have paid the outstanding balance 
that Mr E did receive  and which Mr E was unable to take advantage of. Its difficult then not to conclude that had the default been removed, it would ultimately have 
been reapplied 60 days later, and would now be recorded on Mr Es credit file, albeit with a 
later default date, meaning that it would remain on Mr Es credit file for longer than the 
default currently recorded. This would mean that Mr E would be in a worse position than he 
is in now, given that the default recorded on his credit file would remain on his credit file for 
longer.
As such, what this service would expect in these circumstances would be that the original 
default would remain on Mr Es credit file, but that Lloyds would give Mr E the opportunity to 
make a payment to clear the balance such that the default would be removed if the payment 
is made. And thats what Lloyds did here. 
And, given that Mr E couldnt make that payment, its of benefit to Mr E that the original date 
of default remains on his credit file, as this default will fall off his credit file sooner than if the 
default had been removed and reapplied with a later default date.
Additionally, while I can sympathise with the difficult personal circumstances that Mr E faced 
at the time in question, I dont feel that I can fairly instruct a removal of the default on this 
basis, and I feel that the 60 day period provided by Lloyds was reasonable and provided fair 
opportunity for Mr E to have made the payment. And while it may have been the case that 
Mr E might have been able to have made the payment needed to avoid the account 
defaulting if he had been made aware at an earlier time that such a payment was necessary, 
I dont feel that this possibility overrides the fact that Mr E unfortunately wasnt able to make 
the same payment in the 60 day period that Lloyds provided to him.
Finally, with regard my provisional award of £100 compensation to Mr E for Lloyds not 
communicating clearly with him before first applying the default, Im aware that Mr E feels 
that a higher amount of compensation is merited for what happened here. Matters of 
compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by one party 
not being considered as being such by someone else. But I do feel that £100 is a fair amount 
in this instance, and Im satisfied that its in-line and commensurate with other awards made 
by this service, given what took place.
All of which means that, having considered all of the points that Mr E has raised, my position 
remains the same as outlined in my provisional decision  specifically, that Im satisfied that 
Lloyds took the corrective steps necessary to ensure that the application of the default is fair, 
but that Lloyds should make a payment of £100 to Mr E to compensate him for any distress 
and inconvenience he may have incurred as a result of Lloyds not communicating clearly 
with Mr E in the first instance. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr E was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
  
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment to Mr E of £100.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis
explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman