DRN-3175677
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shop Direct Finance Company (Shop Direct), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J applied for credit with Shop Direct in August 2012. He opened an account with a credit 
limit of £750. Later that year, in November 2012 he opened a second catalogue shopping 
account with a credit limit of £500.
Mr J says that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided him with the credit. He says it didnt take 
account of his financial situation at the time and that it should have refused him credit. He 
says Shop Direct didnt check it was affordable for him and that he has struggled with debt 
ever since. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She didnt think Shop Direct had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions.
 
Mr J disagreed. He told the adjudicator that when he experienced a bereavement his 
financial difficulties were exacerbated, and it caused him severe ill health. 
As Mr J did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Shop 
Direct acted unfairly and lent to Mr J irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mr Js borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Shop Direct has provided the outcome of the checks it completed when opening Mr Js 
accounts. It says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Mr J in the way that it did.
I can see from this list in relation to the fist account Mr J opened that Shop Direct saw Mr J 
had previously had arrears in other credit over the preceding two years. But this alone wasnt 
necessarily a reason not to lend to him. The checks also showed that he was up to date with 
all of his credit accounts and that his overall live credit limit on all borrowing was low at £650.
Based on this a credit limit of £750 appeared affordable and Mr J didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Shop Direct completed were reasonable 
and proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision. 
This account didnt have any limit increases and the outstanding balance was cleared by 
March 2018.
Similarly, the checks completed when Mr J opened a further account in November 2012 
were reasonable and proportionate. Nothing had changed negatively in the checks Shop 
Direct made.
The second account opened with a limit of £500. There were four limit increases between 
January 2014 and November 2016 up to £2,500. The account showed sustained arrears 
from February 2017 onwards as no payments were being made to the account. Shop Direct 
resigned the debt to a third part in August 2017 with an outstanding balance of over £2,500.
Mr J says that meeting the repayments was difficult and stressful and have contributed 
towards his ill health. But it seems that Mr J generally maintained his repayments on this 
second account until September 2016. And I can see that in 2015 the account was regularly 
at a zero balance and on more than one occasion Mr J paid in excess of £300. All of this 
would have given Shop Direct some confidence that the limits were affordable and 
sustainable for him. While repayment of the minimum repayments doesnt necessarily 
demonstrate it was affordable, I dont think Shop Direct saw anything that ought to have 
alerted it to a problem.
I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Shop Direct to have taken steps 
to build a more detailed picture of Mr Js financial situation, but I havent seen anything in the 
evidence provided to suggest that if it had done so it would have realised Mr J wasnt able to 
sustainably meet the repayments on his account. Although Mr J did pay late on occasion he 
usually paid soon after, and often more than the minimum required.
Mr J has supplied a copy of his credit file and this confirms that at the point of the last 
increase there were no arrears or defaults on record. So even if Shop Direct had done 
further checks I dont think it would have thought Mr J was in financial difficulty. 
In May 2017 Mr J agreed a payment plan with Shop Direct of £100 a month. But Mr J didnt 
make any further payments and the debt was reassigned to a third- party debt collection 
agency. 
On balance, given Mr Js credit limit, ongoing balance, Mr Js management of his accounts 
and what was reasonably apparent about Mr Js circumstances, I dont think Shop Direct 
acted inappropriately in the way it managed Mr Js account. So, I dont think Mr J lost out as 
a result of anything Shop Direct did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited does not have to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman