DRN-1748145
 
The complaint
Mrs O complains that AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this complaint, so I shall refer to it as the 
seller.
What happened
Mrs O took out a store card with AXA in 2002. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which would have helped cover the repayments on the card if she couldnt work due to an 
accident, sickness or redundancy. It also provided life cover for the balance and purchase 
and price protection.
Mrs O originally complained that nothing was mentioned about the PPI during her application 
for the card. She says that she wasnt told the PPI was optional. She later told this service 
that she would have felt pressured into taking the PPI.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Os complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs O disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Os 
complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Os store card application form. Theres a separate section 
for PPI which offers a clear choice about whether to take it or not. Mrs O has signed 
separately in the box to say she wanted it. Other boxes offering other products have been 
left blank. Mrs O has signed this form. 
Latterly, Mrs O has said she must have been pressured. Its not clear whether she means 
pressured to buy the PPI or pressured for time while filling out the application, and she 
wasnt able originally to recollect any details from the sale. So, without more evidence of this 
I cant safely say Mrs O was unfairly pressured into buying the PPI. 
On balance, I think its likely Mrs O bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
AXA didnt provide Mrs O with a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt have to 
take steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did have to make sure she had enough 
information about it to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this. Theres very little 
information about the PPI on the application form. But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mrs Os complaint. I have to think about how she might have acted if 
she did have all the information. 
Looking at Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale I dont think Mrs O would have acted 
differently. I say this because I think the PPI was suitable for her for the following reasons:
Mrs O was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any terms that 
might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs O was entitled to sick pay from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this for as long as she was off sick or until the balance was paid off. 
Similarly, it would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay she received. So it 
offered a useful benefit;
Mrs O has explained that family or friends would have been able to help her 
financially. But this kind of support cant be guaranteed;
The cost of the policy was greater than some other PPI policies on sale around the 
same time, but it offered a commensurately greater benefit. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs O.
So I dont think Mrs O lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman