DRN-1953762
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about Phoenix Life Limiteds redress in connection with unsuitable pension 
transfer advice.
What happened
Phoenix Life advised Mr R to transfer benefits from his employers occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP) in 1992. Phoenix Life accepted this advice 
was unsuitable following the industry-wide Pensions Review in 2000. The business 
augmented Mr Rs PPP to compensate him for the loss hed suffered as a result of its poor 
advice.
Mr Rs initial complaint was that as part of the Pensions Review, Phoenix Life failed to check 
whether it was possible for him to be reinstated into the OPS. He later complained that he 
may not have been properly compensated by the redress paid by Phoenix Life. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Phoenix Life had checked whether it was possible for Mr R to be reinstated into his former 
employers OPS.
The investigator was also satisfied that the information used by Phoenix Life to calculate Mr 
Rs redress was correct.
Mr R (through his representative) didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said 
Phoenix Life had only provided a summary of its redress calculations, so it wasnt possible to 
check whether the business had used correct assumptions. Mr R considered Phoenix Life 
should carry out a revised calculation, in line with updated regulatory guidelines.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Rs initial complaint was that as part of the Pensions Review, Phoenix Life didnt check 
whether it was possible to be reinstated into his former employers OPS. 
But Phoenix Life provided evidence to show that it did check this point as part of the review, 
and Mr R also seems to accept that this was the case. 
The Pensions Review exercise started in late 1994, looking at transfers that took place 
between April 1988 and June 1994. The exercise was intended to draw a line under issues 
that had happened a number of years before, and were common across large parts of the 
industry.
The regulator at the time set out a series of assumptions on which redress calculations 
should be performed. Those calculations were complex, and needed to take into account a 
significant number of factors including information about the consumer and about the 
pension scheme from which they had transferred. 
With the benefit of hindsight some of the assumptions that the regulator used, such as for 
future investment returns, havent been borne out by actual growth rates. But that in itself 
isnt a reason to conclude that the calculations were performed incorrectly.
Phoenix Life has provided us with copies of the information and assumptions it used to 
calculate Mr Rs compensation. During the course of the complaint, Mr R has confirmed that 
the details Phoenix Life used about his own circumstances were correct.
Mr Rs representative says Phoenix Life hasnt provided a detailed breakdown of its actual 
calculations. So it doesnt consider its possible to check that the assumptions used were 
correct. Its for this reason that Mr Rs representative says Phoenix Life should recalculate 
the loss, in line with updated regulatory guidelines.
But Phoenix Life provided the key assumptions used in the calculation, and also said that 
further details were available upon request. So Mr R was able to request further information 
if he needed it.
The calculations carried out in connection with the Pensions Review were complex, and 
often required the input of actuaries. But the calculations were also monitored closely by the 
regulator at the time. So on balance, Im satisfied that Phoenix Life wouldve performed the 
calculations in line with the regulators requirements.
In 2000 Mr R accepted the offer made by Phoenix Life, in line with the regulators 
expectations, to correct the estimated loss from the advice hed received in 1992. So I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask Phoenix Life to redo that calculation. Which 
means I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint.
If Mr R suspects that the calculation may not have been undertaken correctly, then its open 
to him to have the calculation checked by an actuarial firm. And if theres evidence that the 
outcome might have been wrong, then he may bring a new complaint to this service on that 
basis. 
Its worth noting, however, that even if Phoenix Life made accidental errors in the calculation, 
its unlikely that we would require it to redo the calculation using current assumptions  
rather, its likely the same overall basis as the original would be used, with any erroneous detail personal to Mr R being corrected. The outcome may not therefore be substantially 
different.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020. 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman