DRN-2474147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) has declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr and Mrs R have been represented at times. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Mrs R only 
and that will include anything said by the representative.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs R got in touch with RSA because shed noticed cracking in her garage. RSA 
appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for investigations to establish 
the cause of the problem.
The loss adjuster said the damage had been caused by faulty design of the foundations as 
they were built on made ground and were near a land drain. It declined the claim.
Mrs R wasnt happy with this and complained. She said the garage had been added to the 
main house around 1995 and she bought the property in 2007. She was told the local 
council didnt consider garages were subject to building regulations and so there had been 
no completion certificate to confirm building regulations had been met. Because of that, her 
solicitor had advised her to take advice from a surveyor, which she did. Mrs R thought shed 
done all she reasonably could to ensure everything was in order when she bought the 
property.
RSA said the loss adjuster had confirmed the damage had been caused by inadequate 
foundations and it considered it was fair to rely on that advice. Mrs R referred her complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted fairly. He said RSA had provided information to 
show that good building practice hadnt been followed. And the surveyors report from 2007 
had indicated construction problems. Mrs R said a structural engineer working to put the 
garage problem right had questioned some of the loss adjusters comments.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not damage caused by or from faulty 
design. RSA seems to have accepted the garage has suffered subsidence damage.
Its declined the claim because it says the damage is the result of faulty design of the 
foundation. The onus is on RSA to show this is the case.
Mrs R bought the property after the garage had been built. At the time of buying it, she was 
told the garage hadnt required building control inspection or approval. As a result, there 
wasnt a completion certificate to confirm the garage had been built to the required standard. 
I understand many garages are exempt from building regulation approval. RSA seems to 
have accepted that may have been the case for Mrs Rs. But it says the builder still had a 
duty to follow good building practice. It considers that includes taking the guidance and 
standards of building regulations into account. I agree. Whilst the garage may not have been 
required to meet building regulations, I think the guidance it provides is indicative of best 
practice around the time the garage was built and would have been a credible source of 
information for the builder to take into account.
The garage was built around 1995. RSA has shown that Building Regulations from that time 
advised against building a plain concrete foundation in made ground. The investigations 
arranged by the loss adjuster showed the foundation was 1.1m deep and built on a layer of 
made ground. It was described as stony clay fill with brick and block. The loss adjuster 
considered this type of material was unsuitable for the foundation as it tends to be weak and 
compressible under the weight of a structure. They considered the foundation design was 
faulty for being built on made ground. Given the advice found in Building Regulations, Im 
persuaded that was a reasonable conclusion to reach.
The loss adjuster also said that building near a land drain wasnt good practice. It hasnt 
provided evidence of any Regulation or other guidance to support this comment. So Im not 
persuaded its shown that building near the drain amounted to faulty design.
Mrs R has said a structural engineer doesnt agree with the loss adjuster. I understand these 
comments were made verbally whilst working alongside the builders putting right the garage 
problem and nothing formal has been provided. Mrs R says the cost of taking formal advice 
would be difficult, given the costs already incurred dealing with the problem without any 
financial support from RSA. Whilst thats understandable, it means I havent been provided 
with an alternative expert view to challenge the conclusions reached by the loss adjuster 
about the foundation and subsoil.
Overall Im satisfied RSA has shown that the foundation design was faulty, as it was built on 
made ground contrary to the best practice of the time.
Where an insurer has shown an exclusion applies, it means the claim isnt covered by the 
policy. Im satisfied thats the case here. But Im required to take a second step and consider 
whether allowing the insurer to rely on that exclusion and decline the claim would be fair. 
Usually it will be, because the exclusions are part of the policy and the contract of insurance 
the policyholder has agreed to. In cases like this, I may depart from that if Im persuaded 
information obtained during the sale showed the foundation was adequate. For example, a 
completion certificate from Building Control may fulfil that in some cases.
As it appears the garage wasnt subject to Building Regulation, such a certificate wont be 
available to Mrs R. I understand there isnt any other information about how the foundation 
was designed and built that might show how relevant guidance of the time was considered.
Mrs R has provided a copy of the surveyors report from the time she bought the property. In 
summary it said there had been movement to the garage, although it didnt consider this 
would threaten the integrity of the structure. It noted some of the damage was longstanding, 
recommended repairs and monitoring for further movement.
I understand Mrs R was reassured by this report that there wasnt a potential risk of 
structural problems with the garage. And when the cracks didnt reappear for many years, that gave her further reassurance. Ive thought about this point carefully. But Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to require RSA to accept the claim because of this.
 
RSA has shown the foundation design was faulty. I havent seen any evidence from the time 
Mrs R bought the property to show the garage was constructed in line with the prevailing 
best practice of the time. And the survey report shows the garage had suffered movement 
and damage and would need monitoring for the possibility of further movement. Although the 
report may have given Mrs R a degree of reassurance about the garage, overall, I dont think 
it would be fair to say that at the time Mrs R bought the property, the garage appeared to be 
problem free and unlikely to suffer from movement in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman