DRN-3200983
The complaint
Ms C complains that she was not provided with a copy of the hire purchase agreement she 
entered into when she took a car from RCI Financial Services Limited. 
What happened
In August 2020 Ms C entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI, following 
negotiations conducted through a dealership, which Ill refer to as R. The agreement 
recorded that Ms C was to make a total of 47 monthly payments of just under £134, followed 
by one final payment of £6,049. The car was just over a year old and was priced at £13,700. 
Ms C signed the hire purchase agreement and the pre-contract information electronically on 
22 August 2020. 
About a year later Ms C contacted RCI to say that she had not been given a copy of the hire 
purchase agreement when she acquired the car and that she was therefore unsure what her 
obligations were under it. RCI contacted R, which said that the necessary documents were 
supplied when Ms C took out the agreement. RCI told Ms C what R had said and supplied 
copies of the documents to her. 
Ms C said that she had not received the documents at the point of supply and would not 
have agreed to such a large final payment. She referred the matter to this service and one of 
our investigators considered it. He noted that Ms C had signed the agreement, which set out 
the terms of the hire purchase, including the payments due. He was satisfied that R had 
explained things at the time. He did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms C 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint that I am considering is Ms Cs complaint about RCI as the creditor under the 
hire purchase agreement. R was the intermediary which dealt directly with Ms C and is 
therefore to be treated as acting as agent for RCI. That is, RCI is responsible for any 
information that R provided or did not provide to Ms C. 
I note that the hire purchase agreement and pre-contract information document were both 
signed electronically by Ms C. That might indicate she was not present when they were 
executed and that she was not, therefore given copies at the time. And I note that RCIs 
report of what R said about this says that the documents were supplied and signed by Ms C; 
R did not expressly say that she was given copies to take away or that copies were sent to 
her. RCIs and Rs evidence that Ms C was given a copy of the hire purchase agreement in 
August 2020 is, in my view, not compelling. 
Section 61A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 requires that a debtor be provided with a copy 
of an executed agreement or, where they already have a copy of the unexecuted agreement, 
confirmation that it has been executed in the same form. If that does not happen, the 
agreement is not properly executed.
The effect of improper execution is not however to make the agreement ineffective. Section 
65 says that the effect is that the agreement cannot be enforced except with a court order; 
enforcement includes repossessing goods supplied under the agreement. In this case, 
however, no enforcement action has been taken, and I note as well that RCI provided copies 
of the documents when Ms C raised her concerns. 
I am satisfied however that, whether or not Ms C was provided with a copy of the hire 
purchase agreement at the time, she did sign it and agreed to be bound by its terms. I think 
it most unlikely that she would have done that without understanding her key obligations  
what she would have to pay, how frequently payments were due and for how long the 
agreement would run  as well as the details of the car she was taking in return.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require RCI Financial Services Limited to 
do anything further to resolve Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman