DRN-2880435
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited reduced the credit limit on his credit 
card twice. 
What happened
Mr S has held a credit card with Creation for several years and, from 2013, the credit limit 
was £2,600. In June 2020 Creation reduced the credit limit to £1,200. After Mr S complained, 
Creation took the decision to reduce the credit limit again, this time to £500.
Mr S complained to Creation but it didnt agree an error had been made. Creation said its 
terms allow it to reduce credit limits and that it wrote to Mr S to confirm what was happening.
An investigator at our service looked at Mr S complaint but didnt find that Creation had 
treated him unfairly when it reduced his credit limit. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr S has held a credit card with Creation for a number of years and had the same 
credit limit in place for a long time. But, I have to take the terms and conditions Mr S 
accepted when he opened the credit card into account when considering whether Creation 
has made a mistake or treated him unfairly. Creations terms say: 
We will decide at our discretion on the amount of credit we grant under this agreement and 
will notify you in writing of the credit limit and of any sub credit limits which may apply. We 
will notify you of changes to your credit limit in writing from time to time. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S existing credit limit had been in place for several years, the account 
terms allow Creation to review it and reduce the borrowing at its discretion. The terms say 
Creation will write to card holders when it decides to reduce a credit limit. And I can see 
Creation wrote to Mr S both times it took the decision to reduce his credit limit. 
I understand Mr S would like a better understanding of why Creation took the decision to 
reduce his credit limit, but its final response explains that information is commercially 
sensitive. Creation has given a rough explanation concerning the types of information it 
considers when reviewing a credit limit and Im satisfied thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S as I understand he feels Creations decision to reduce his 
credit limit was unfair. But Creation is able to review its customers credit limits and decide 
whether to increase or reduce them in line with its commercial discretion. As Ive said above, 
Im satisfied Creation acted in line with the credit cards terms and conditions when it took 
the decision to reduce Mr S credit limit. As Im satisfied Creation dealt with Mr S complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman