DRN-3504963
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fairly settled his travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance through his bank account, which is insured through UKI. He 
booked a UK trip, departing on 13 September 2021, for himself and a travelling companion. 
This included a ferry and hotel accommodation. 
The day before travel, the ferry operator contacted Mr M to advise that the ferry was 
cancelled, and they didnt know when they would be able to provide him with a new crossing. 
As there were no alternative travel options available to enable him to go on this trip, Mr M 
cancelled his accommodation booking. 
Mr M made a claim to UKI for the cost of the accommodation he had lost. UKI settled the 
claim, however, it only considered 50% of the cost as it said that the policy doesnt provide 
cover for the unused costs of any person who is not insured by the policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained to UKI and brought the matter to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. She found UKI decision to only pay 
50% of the accommodation costs was reasonable based on the policy coverage. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said that he has spoken to UKI at the time of the 
ferry being cancelled and following that call he had been left with the understanding he 
would be able to reclaim the full accommodation costs. As no agreement could be reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
UKI has settled some of the claim - so the circumstances leading to the cause of the claim 
are not in dispute. But what I need to consider is whether UKI has acted fairly when reaching 
the settlement figure.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr M wishes to claim for the cost of the unused accommodation he incurred when he had to 
abandon his UK trip. The accommodation was for him and his travelling companion. UKI 
says the policy doesnt provide cover for the unused costs of any person not insured by the 
policy and so it has only paid his portion of the hotel cost. 
Having checked the policy terms and conditions, I can see that there is a section which 
provides cover for the abandoned departure of a trip, or cancellation, due to the delay or 
cancellation of transport. It says the following:
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if 
you choose to abandon your trip on your outward journey at your point of 
departure because your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is:
1. Delayed by more than 12 hours (6 hours for a trip of four nights or less) beyond 
the departure time shown on your travel ticket on your outward journey.
2. Cancelled following a delay and your transport operator is unable to provide you 
with a replacement from your point of departure within 12hours of the original 
departure time on your outward journey.
There is also a list of exclusions and within this section it says the following:
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
5. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your 
portion of any costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
In addition to this, the policy also includes details of how the coverage works, under a 
section titled Operation of Cover and Upgrades. In this section it says:
Who is covered
This policy provides cover for the account holder only. You can extend the cover to 
include your partner, any dependent child or a guest by purchasing a Family or 
Guest Upgrade.
Is the settlement of the claim fair?
The policy wording is clear in stating that cover isnt provided for the unused costs of any 
person who is not insured by the policy. And this also includes expenses which may have 
been paid for by the account holder as a gift for their travelling companion. Ive noted that 
there is an option to upgrade the policy coverage to include a guest, however, Mr M didnt 
obtain such an upgrade. Im therefore persuaded that UKIs decision to only pay for Mr Ms 
portion of the unused accommodation costs is fair. 
Mr M has said that when he first became aware of the cancellation of his ferry crossing, he 
called UKI to ask about the coverage. He says he was left with the impression that his full 
accommodation costs would be covered. 
Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation Mr M had with UKI on 13 September 
2021. During this call Mr M was advised to refer back to the ferry operator to see if they 
could provide any refund for his holiday, as they had cancelled the ferry. The call handler 
said she was unable to confirm if there was cover for his particular circumstances but that he 
could put in a claim for consideration if the ferry company refused. Based on what Ive heard, 
Im satisfied that UKI didnt give Mr M incorrect or misleading information in relation to his 
claim for the unused accommodation. Im aware that Mr M has complained about the service he received from UKI after submitting 
his claim and receiving his payment. He has referred to receiving conflicting information from 
UKI about the settlement. UKI has accepted that it should have done more to explain to him 
about the cover under the policy when he submitted his claim. I can appreciate how 
frustrating this situation must have been for Mr M  I can see that he made a number of calls 
to UKI after the settlement was made. UKI has paid a total of £155 to Mr M as compensation 
for the poor service he received which I think is a fair and reasonable compensation offer, 
taking into account what happened during the claim process. I dont require UKI to pay 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman