DRN-2159775
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the amount of compensation HFC Bank Limited (HFC) has offered to 
settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside her credit card.
What happened
Mrs C opened her credit card account in August 2000 and at the same time she took out a 
PPI policy to cover the account. Since the account opened, it has transferred to another 
business in 2009 and the PPI remained in place after this date, administered by the other 
business.
Mrs C has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold. It was agreed by the businesses that 
her complaint should be upheld. HFC was responsible for calculating the compensation due 
to Mrs C from August 2000 when the PPI started until the account was transferred to the 
other business in February 2009. 
HFC calculated the compensation due to Mrs C for the period it was responsible for the 
account and PPI and offered £1,408.65 after tax in compensation. This was to cover the 
period the PPI was active when it was responsible for the account, from August 2000 to 
February 2009. Mrs C isnt happy with the offer as she feels the compensation during this 
period should be more.
Our adjudicator said what HFC had offered was fair. Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld Mrs Cs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I 
am not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what HFC has 
offered in compensation for the mis-sold PPI, from August 2000 to February 2009, is fair.  
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold the business needs, as far as possible, to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the policy. To 
do this, all premiums charged for the PPI must be repaid plus any interest or charges caused 
by the PPI being added to the account. Also, the business must pay compensatory interest 
for any period a consumer is out of pocket, which for credit cards is when the account was in 
credit. 
HFC does not have all the data and records for Mrs Cs account but it does have some 
computer data showing the balance on the account each month, the interest charged, and all 
the monthly PPI premiums charged to the account from August 2000 to February 2009. 
HFC has used this data to work out how much Mrs C paid in premiums for the PPI and then 
the interest and any charges caused by the PPI being part of the balance. It also worked out 
compensatory interest for any time Mrs C was out of pocket for the costs of the PPI. This 
resulted in an offer for its share of the compensation to February 2009 of £1,408.65 after tax.
The way HFC has carried out the calculation, using the data it has on its system, appears to 
be in line with what I would expect HFC to do. And looking at the figures I think the offer is 
fair.
Mrs C however feels she had much higher balances on her account up to 2005 as in 
January 2005 she and her husband took out a loan to consolidate all of their debts into one 
loan, and at this time her credit card balance was consolidated into that loan. She recalls the 
balance on her credit card at this time being high and the credit limit imposed on the account 
after the balance was cleared was £500. She also feels that taking account of the amount of 
the loan, the payment to clear her credit card must have been a substantial amount.
From the records provided by HFC I can see that when the credit card opened on the first 
statement date in September 2000 the balance was £477.03. Over the next few years the 
balance data showed it increased until it reached its highest amount of £4,243.04 on the 
statement on 9 May 2004. The balance stayed around the £4,000 level for the next few 
months and on 9 January 2005 it was £3,905.06. It seems this balance in January 2005 was 
then cleared completely as there was no balance on the account in February 2005. The last 
PPI charged at this time, is shown on the statement for January 2005. 
There is then no spend or balance shown on the account until 8 May 2008 when the balance 
was £144.30, and PPI was again charged to the account. Between May 2008 and February 
2009, the balance increased and was generally around £400, the highest balance shown in 
this period is £440.51.
All these balances and the related PPI monthly charges have been provided to Mrs C by our 
adjudicator when sending his original view to her. 
The data on HFCs records actually reflects Mrs Cs recollections about building up a 
balance on the credit card up to January 2005, paying off the balance in January 2005, and 
then possibly having a credit limit of £500 after this date, as the balance never went over 
£500 after January 2005.
However, Mrs C believes the balance paid off the credit card in 2005, by the loan, must have 
been substantially more than what HFC records indicate, as the loan was for a large sum. 
Therefore, if the balance on the account was higher, then the premiums for the PPI would 
also have been higher so Mrs C feels more is due in compensation.
There is no evidence to show that the balance on Mrs Cs credit card was more than 
£3,905.06 in January 2005, as shown on the data records from HFC. Mrs C believes the 
data HFC has extracted about her account is the wrong print out and the information 
provided does not relate to her credit card at the time.
I have seen nothing to indicate there is any error in the data extracted by HFC or that this 
relates to the wrong account. HFC identify the account on its systems by the account 
number and it has used the account number for Mrs Cs account to search for data. The 
actual data amounts for the balances also do reflect Mrs Cs recollections about paying off 
the account in January 2005 and then possibly having a credit limit of up to £500 going 
forward.Mrs C has asked for evidence as to how the funds she and her husband borrowed in the 
loan in 2005 were distributed. But HFC does not have this information available any more as 
this was over 15 years ago. The data available that is related to the credit card account to 
which the PPI I am considering was associated, indicates that the balance was cleared from 
the credit card sometime after the statement date of 9 January 2005 and before the next 
statement in February 2005.
I have noted the evidence provided by Mrs C about the loan that was taken out in 2005, but 
this does not provide any direct information about the costs of the PPI charged to her credit 
card account. 
The evidence I do have suggests that £3,905.06 was paid off the credit card in January 2005 
and it is quite likely this money was paid from the loan account Mrs C took out. But the 
amount of the loan was not taken out to only pay the balance on Mrs Cs credit card, so 
there would be no direct link between the amount borrowed in the loan to show what the 
balance was on Mrs Cs credit card at the time. I understand the loan was taken out to 
consolidate various borrowings, and there is no evidence to show that more than the 
£3,905.06 was paid from the loan to Mrs Cs credit card account.
Whilst HFC do not have full records about everything, the data it has provided indicates it 
has accurate data about the balances on the account and the PPI premiums charged. So it 
can work out the costs of the PPI and use this to calculate the compensation due to Mrs C. 
I have seen no evidence at all to suggest the records from HFC are incorrect and I have to 
reach a decision based on the evidence available. The fact that Mrs C and her husband took 
out a loan in January 2005 that was for substantially more than the credit card balance 
owed, does not show that the balance shown on the records for the credit card is incorrect. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I am satisfied that the calculation carried out by 
HFC for the mis-sold PPI compensation, due for the period August 2000 to February 2009, is 
fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied the compensation calculated and offered 
by HFC Bank Limited for the mis-sold PPI during the dates it was responsible for the account 
is fair, and I am not upholding this complaint that any more compensation is due. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman