DRN-4381579
The complaint
Mr C has complained about advice he was given to take out a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan. The advice was provided by Medical Sickness 
Society, which is now known as Wesleyan Assurance Society.
Mr C is being represented in his complaint by a third party. For ease Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr C. 
What happened
Mr C met with an adviser from Wesleyan in 1995. There is no paperwork available from the  
time of the sale but its known that Mr C was almost 31 years old, employed and was a 
member of the NHS Pension Scheme, having joined in 1987. 
Following the meeting, Mr C set up an FSAVC plan, with a regular gross monthly  
contribution of £124.17. Contributions were increased periodically, up to a gross monthly 
amount of £289.17. Contributions ceased in April 2003.
Mr C left active NHS service in the Scheme on 30 April 2020 and took his scheme benefits 
from 1 August 2022, aged 59.
In 2022, Mr C complained to Wesleyan about the sale of his FSAVC plan. in summary he 
complained that:
The plan was not suitable for his needs.
The full risks, implications, and alternatives in respect of the FSAVC were not fully 
and properly explained.
He was unaware of the higher charges for this type of scheme.
He should have been advised to purchase added years through his employers 
scheme.
He was not provided with a full or descriptive comparison of benefits between his in-
house scheme and the FSAVC plan.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it said the sales paperwork wasnt 
available so it couldnt be sure Mr C was made aware of the in-house options he had for 
topping up his pension provision. So it said it was upholding the complaint and it would be 
forwarding Mr Cs file to its actuary for a loss assessment to be completed on an added 
years basis. 
Wesleyans Actuary completed a loss assessment and Wesleyan wrote to Mr C to confirm 
the outcome in January 2023. Its letter confirmed:
Over the period of liability (from his birthday in August 1995 to April 2003), the total 
contributions paid to the FSAVC plan represented 4.85% of pensionable pay. If 
4.85% of pensionable pay had instead been directed to added years, Mr C could 
have purchased added years of 6 years 267 days up to age 60 if working full time 
throughout. However, the maximum allowed under the scheme was 40 years 
pensionable service, so Mr C had headroom of 4 years 340 days, which he couldve 
bought at 3.55% of pensionable salary through to age 60.
Mr C retired at 59 and the added years benefit would have come into payment at the 
same time as the scheme benefits with an early retirement reduction. Taking account 
of this reduction and the Life Time Allowance (LTA) tax charge that would have been 
payable, Mr C would have received £3,221.29 from the added years arrangement.
The FSAVC plan value in October 2022 (when the calculations were carried out) was 
£187,949.27. The plan benefitted from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option. At age 
59, there was a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) of £3.989 per £100 fund value 
payable monthly in advance, guaranteed for five years, and with escalation at RPI. 
After applying the LTA tax charge reduction, this would have secured Mr C an 
income of £5,622.97.
Mr C paid more to the FSAVC than he would have needed to pay into the added 
years arrangement so only 71.38% of the FSAVC contributions would have been 
paid towards added years. When this was factored into the calculation, it reduced the 
pension to £4,013.80. 
The letter set out the calculation as follows: 
Loss arising in relation to past benefit payments
First monthly Scheme pension: £268.44
Past loss £268.44
Future income loss:
Scheme future gross income: £116,709.84
Less
Plan future gross income: £146,154.20
Future gross gain £29,444.37
Mr C didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its calculation so the 
complaint was referred to this Service for consideration. 
In summary, Mr C says he is concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss 
assessment. He doesnt think its fair to include the guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) value to a 
notional fund value. He says he had no use of any guaranteed benefits due to his 
circumstances when taking pension benefits. Hes also said that contributions made to the 
FSAVC in excess of those that couldve been used to purchase added years have not been 
considered in the loss calculation.
One of our investigators review the complaint. She thought Wesleyan was correct to assess 
the loss on an added years basis. And having considered the calculation methodology she 
didnt think this was unfair. So the investigator didnt think Wesleyan needed to do anything 
further.  Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion and provided the following points for 
consideration:
The calculation has been carried out in part, by using the Pension Review 
methodology. But strictly applying this isnt appropriate in the particular 
circumstances of his case.
Mr C was paying in excess of what was needed to achieve maximum service and it is 
also clear that his FSAVC contribution level was marginally in excess of what the 
NHS would've allowed him to pay into the money purchase AVC. Its agreed that he 
has overpaid for the benefit he required by 26.75% of the FSAVC contribution over 
the whole period.
The calculation is incorrect and unfair because Wesleyan is saying to achieve the 4 
years and 340 days of extra service in the NHS Scheme, only 73.25% of the FSAVC 
contribution was needed and assessed. The investigator has said the excess 
contributions to the FSAVC have not been considered in the loss calculation. But 
when you come to the later stages of the calculation, the whole fund value has been 
used for the purposes of guaranteed annuity rate and lifetime allowance charge. This 
aspect of the calculation is flawed and heavily biased towards the business.
The investigator has said these excess contributions were still invested within the 
FSAVC and not lost. But Mr C did not need to make them to achieve the intended 
goal or benefit of 4 years and 340 days of extra service in the NHS Scheme. There 
are two options for redressing this. The first is that Wesleyan could reassess the 
calculation using 73.25% of the FSAVC contribution and following that through to 
use, 73.25% of the fund value and thus 25% tax free cash of a lower amount, a lower 
annuity amount and a lower LTA charge applicable in the hypothetical calculation. Or 
the second option is that Wesleyan could make a hypothetical refund of the excess 
FSAVC contributions with interest.
Another investigator reviewed Mr Cs response and confirmed that his comments didnt alter 
the view previously issued. The investigator also confirmed the full fund value hadnt been 
used in the calculation. 
The complaint has been passed to me to reached a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wesleyan has upheld the complaint on the basis that the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. And it 
considers that, had he been given adequate information during the sale, Mr C wouldve 
chosen to buy added years in the NHS Pension Scheme in 1995, rather than taking out the 
FSAVC plan. As both Wesleyan and Mr C are in agreement on this matter, my decision 
focuses on whether Wesleyan needs to do any more to put matters right; I dont intend to 
comment on the sale of the FSAVC plan and whether I agree that Mr P wouldve chosen 
added years in 1995 as these matters no longer seem to be in dispute. 
In considering what needs to be done to put matters right, Ive taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
This service doesnt have the resource to check the actual calculation that is in dispute. 
Instead, Ive considered the calculation methodology Wesleyan has used. Having done this, 
Im of the view that Wesleyans calculation methodology is fair and Im therefore not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.Basing the calculation on FG17/9
Mr C doesnt think Wesleyans use of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) FG17/9 
guidance is appropriate in the particular circumstances of his case. He says this is because 
the sale of his plan didnt fall within the scope of the original Pension Review and the 
guidance was written over 20 years ago. However, I think Mr C is mistaken here. While the 
original Pension Review guidance was introduced over 20 years ago, FG17/9 was, at the 
time of the calculation, the up to date guidance issued by the FCA for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit transfers. 
FG17/9 is also relevant for calculating loss suffered when it has been determined that an 
FSAVC policy has been mis-sold and the consumer would instead have bought added 
years. In the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, Im satisfied it was appropriate for 
Wesleyan to use the FG17/9 guidance when calculating whether Mr C has suffered a loss. 
Inclusion of the GAR when calculating the FSAVC fund value 
It appears that at the time Wesleyan completed its calculation, Mr C hadnt taken the FSAVC 
benefits and hes argued that its unfair to include the value of the GAR in the notional fund 
value for loss assessment. However, I dont agree. 
The GAR on Mr Cs FSAVC plan will provide him with a guaranteed income, which Mr C can 
choose to have increase in line with RPI and to provide a 50% spouses pension. If Mr C had 
purchased added years, this would have secured him a guaranteed increasing income with a 
spouses pension. So, I dont think its unreasonable that Wesleyan takes the value of the 
GAR into account when calculating the value of FSAVC fund in an added years loss 
assessment. The above mentioned GAR provides a benefit that is the closest match to the 
benefits Mr C has complained he should have bought.
Mr C says that he hasnt taken the GAR, in part, due to the LTA tax charge that he will incur. 
However, I can see that Wesleyan has factored this charge into its calculation. 
Id also add that, even if Mr C chooses not to utilise the GAR when he does take his FSAVC 
benefits, this doesnt make a difference to my findings on this aspect. I say this because 
Mr C has complained that his FSAVC plan was mis-sold and that he instead should have 
been advised to buy added years. The FSAVC gives Mr C the option to take benefits in a 
similar format to the added years arrangement. If Mr C chooses to take his benefits in any 
other format other than an annuity - which wouldnt have been an option for him if he had 
taken added years - then hes making that decision knowing that he is giving up a valuable 
GAR. I therefore dont think its unfair for the notional fund value to include the value of the 
GAR. 
Excess contributions
Ive next considered the excess contributions Mr C paid to the FSAVC above what he would 
have needed to pay to the added years arrangement. 
Wesleyan has calculated that Mr C would have only needed to pay 73.25% of the FSAVC 
contributions to the added years arrangement. Mr C thinks that this hasnt been accounted 
for in Wesleyans calculation. But Im satisfied only 73.25% of the FSAVC fund value was 
used in the calculation when a gain of over £29,000 was determined. I think it was right for 
these contributions to be excluded from the calculation. 
And, as Mr C seems to accept, prior to 2006 it wouldnt have been possible for him to have 
directed any excess contributions to the in-house money purchase arrangement through the 
NHS Pension Scheme. 
I know Mr C thinks the calculation either needs to be rerun to exclude the excess 
contributions or that Wesleyan should make a hypothetical refund of the excess FSAVC 
contributions with interest. But as Ive said above, Im satisfied the excess contributions 
werent included in the calculation so I wont be asking Wesleyan to do this. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but I dont think the methodology 
Wesleyan has used is unfair so not Im upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman