DRN-3393466
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt help recover money he lost as part 
of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again here.
In summary, between May and August 2016, Mr C made several payments to a binary 
options broker called Edgedale Finance  part of Greymountain Management Group  who 
subsequently turned out to be fraudulent. Mr C was approached by an individual claiming to 
be from Edgedale Finance after he responded to an email which offered automatic binary 
options trading with a different broker. 
After researching the company, Mr C decided to open a trading account with Edgedale 
Finance and was assigned an account manager. He started with an initial deposit of £250 
which was matched by Edgedale Finance. Within a month, Mr Cs trading account balance 
had grown to around £1,500. Under the pretext of an insured trade which meant the money 
traded could not be lost, Mr C was persuaded to make a series of deposits within the space 
of a few days. 
But soon after making these deposits, Mr C started losing money. He eventually realised 
hed been scammed when his withdrawal requests were declined. Mr C contacted HSBC as 
soon as he noticed that two further payments  £5,000 and £3,250  had been charged to 
his debit card. But he was told it was too late to stop the payments.
The following payments were made from Mr Cs debit card:
The merchant for each of these payments was Greymountain Management. 
Mr C asked for HSBCs assistance in recovering payments 2-8, but it refused to provide a 
refund. HSBC said it was unable to raise a chargeback for payments 2-6 as Mr C hadnt 
provided the required evidence in time. And the last two payments couldnt be considered 
fraudulent as they went to Mr Cs trading account even though they werent authorised using 
Date (on bank statement) Amount
Payment 1 18 May 2016 £250 (not disputed)
Payment 2 28 June 2016 £5,000
Payment 3 30 June 2016 £5,000
Payment 4 30 June 2016 £5,000
Payment 5 1 July 2016 £5,000
Payment 6 1 July 2016 £5,000
Payment 7 1 August 2016 £5,000
Payment 8 1 August 2016 £3,250
Total payments £34,000the Authorised by Visa secure site like the previous payments. Unhappy with this, Mr C 
referred his complaint to our service and the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2022. I said that I intended to uphold it and set out 
the following reasons:
Payments 1-6
Mr C didnt include the initial payment of £250 when he raised a dispute with HSBC, 
and when he later referred his complaint to our service. As such, it hasnt been 
considered in previous investigations. I havent considered it in my decision either. 
Given the information Ive found during my research on Greymountain Management 
and Edgedale Finance, Im satisfied that Mr C has likely been the victim of a scam, 
rather than simply losing money because of a high-risk investment. There are 
warnings published about the companies on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organisation Securities Commissions (IOSCO), although months after 
Mr C made the payments. 
While I think that the companies were likely operating a scam, the chargeback 
scheme rules dont automatically entitle Mr C to a refund. As the investigator 
explained, the possible chargeback reason codes under Visa  the card scheme 
operator relevant here  didnt specifically cover binary options or investment trading 
at the time of these transactions. Under the circumstances, HSBC could only have 
successfully presented a chargeback claim if the broker had promised  in writing  
Mr C guaranteed returns or profits which werent received. I havent seen evidence of 
this, so I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback claim.
Ive also considered whether HSBC ought to have done more to prevent the 
payments from being sent in the first instance. Theres no dispute that Mr C 
authorised the transactions; he made them by using his legitimate security 
credentials. While he didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009) applicable at the time, hes presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might 
be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, to have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, to 
make additional checks before processing payments, or declining them altogether to 
protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud. 
There was no regulator warning about Greymountain Management when Mr C 
authorised the payments. Given theres no credible evidence of it being reported as a 
scam or fraudulent company when the payments were made, I wouldnt have 
expected HSBC to have picked up payments to Greymountain Management as being 
suspicious based on the merchant name alone.
Our investigator didnt think payments 2 and 3 were unusual or uncharacteristic for 
Mr Cs account. But she thought payment 4 ought to have flagged on HSBCs systems as there was an increase in the account activity. It was also her view that 
had HSBC intervened at the time and asked Mr C appropriate questions, it would 
likely have led to the scam being uncovered and he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the remaining payments. But I dont share the view that this payment (or indeed 
payments 5 and 6) ought to have alerted HSBC to the possibility that Mr Cs account 
was being subjected to unusual activity. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the operation of Mr Cs account over several months leading up to 
the disputed transactions. A transaction for £5,000 doesnt appear to be unusual or 
out of character. Looking at the account activity, I can see several transactions for 
similar or higher amounts during that period. I acknowledge that there was an 
increase in the frequency of transactions to Greymountain Management (Edgedale 
Finance). But that in and of itself doesnt make the transaction sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious. The transaction in question was the fourth overall payment that Mr C had 
made to this merchant, with the initial payment being well over a month prior. Given 
this gap, Mr C didnt make a series of payments to a new payee as the investigator 
appears to have suggested. 
I acknowledge that Mr C transferred large sums of money into his account before 
making the payments. But looking at the account history, it doesnt appear to be the 
first time that there were credits for a large amount. So, I dont consider this to be 
unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr Cs general account activity. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr C. But Im not 
minded to tell HSBC to refund payments 2-6 as I find nothing so unusual or so 
uncharacteristic about them that HSBC ought to have suspected he might be falling 
victim to fraud. 
Payments 7 and 8
HSBC has already agreed to refund these payments. So, it isnt necessary for me to 
make a detailed finding. But briefly, in line with applicable regulations, Mr C isnt 
liable for payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security 
details safe. 
Here, these payments didnt go through the secured site setting. This makes them 
different from the previous payments which were authorised by Mr C. Having 
considered his testimony, the actions he took when he discovered the debits on his 
account, and the reminders he received from Edgedale Finance to complete and 
return the transaction declaration form for these payments (to confirm they were 
made by him), Im not persuaded that Mr C gave his consent to make these 
payments. They were, therefore, unauthorised. 
I also havent seen anything that leads to me conclude Mr C failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with his obligations. So, Mr C isnt liable for the payments 
and HSBC needs to put things right. 
HSBC has questioned the investigators recommendation of adding simple interest at 
8% per year to the refund. It has suggested applying the account rate instead. But it 
has long been our approach that 8% simple interest per year is a fair award for loss 
of use rather than loss of investment opportunity. It doesnt represent what returns Mr 
C might have received by investing or saving the money, which have tended to 
attract low interest rates for some time now. It has been our approach for many years to add interest at 8% simple on loss in these types of situation and I see no reason to 
depart from that here.
HSBC has also argued that it is being penalised for the delay by our service in 
dealing with Mr Cs complaint. But it had the opportunity to settle this complaint 
sooner if it wanted to. I think its also worth mentioning that HSBC didnt confirm its 
position on the investigators view which was sent in July 2020  despite chasers. It 
also didnt respond when it was notified in December 2020 that the case was being 
progressed to the ombudsman stage. So, the delay in progressing this complaint 
wasnt due to just our service.
 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. 
HSBC said it had nothing further to add and it agreed with my provisional findings. 
Mr C said that he was disappointed given that my provisional findings varied so much from 
the investigators recommendation. Mr C also said it seemed that Id not taken an important 
factor into consideration, namely that HSBC had ignored the fact hed kept in touch with 
Edgedale Finance even after realising hed been scammed. He thought this contact may 
help in tracing and recovering his money, but HSBC ignored this information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr C for his comments. I completely understand his disappointment, not least 
because the complaint has been ongoing for some time now and our investigators 
recommendation was different.
Id like to reassure Mr C that I took the information hes mentioned into account before 
reaching my provisional outcome. I know he feels strongly about HSBC not making use of 
his continued contact with Greenfields Capital to trace it and recover his money. But I 
wouldnt expect a bank to undertake the sort of investigation Mr C appears to suggest here. 
It would be more appropriate for law enforcement agencies to carry out such lines of 
enquiries. I would, of course, expect a bank to co-operate with such an investigation. 
The payments in dispute were made using a debit card. The only recourse HSBC had in 
trying to recover Mr Cs funds was through a chargeback. Ive already explained in my 
provisional decision why I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably or unfairly by not pursuing a 
chargeback. To recap, Visa requires very specific evidence when it comes to chargebacks. 
I havent seen any evidence of a written promise by Edgedale Finance to Mr C that he was 
guaranteed returns or profits (which werent later received) at the time of making the 
payments.
In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr C, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to refund the last two transactions 
that Ive listed in the table under the what happened section. That would make an award of 
£8,250. The bank also needs to pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year (less any tax properly 
deductible), calculated from the respective date of transaction to the date of refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman