DRN-3751403
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan which led to her suffering a 
financial loss.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In September 1992, Mrs H was employed as a teacher and a member of the Teachers 
Pension Scheme (TPS). Aviva advised her to start a FSAVC plan to increase her 
retirement provision. The plan started in December 1992 with a monthly contribution of 
£40.00. Aviva advised Mrs H to increase the monthly contribution to £73.33 from                          
September 1993 and then to £164.24 from March 1998. She continued paying monthly 
contributions until August 2009, following which the plan was made paid up. Aviva recorded 
Mrs Hs marital status as single each time it advised her.
This complaint
The CMC, on behalf of Mrs H, complained to Aviva about the suitability of the advice in 1992 
to start the FSAVC plan and subsequent advice in 1993 and 1998 to increase contributions.
Aviva didnt uphold this complaint. It stated it was satisfied it had provided suitable advice 
that met Mrs Hs needs. And that it had made her aware of the alternative in-house AVC 
schemes and told her to obtain details from the TPS so that she could compare this to the 
FSAVC plan. 
The CMC didnt accept the final response provided by Aviva and referred the matter to this 
service. Our investigator concluded that the advice provided by Aviva in 1992, 1993 and 
1998 was unsuitable and this complaint should therefore be upheld. To put things right, he 
recommended that Aviva carry out a loss assessment in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance based on a charges only comparison and on the basis that Mrs H 
would be a 20% taxpayer in retirement. And if this comparison showed a loss that 
compensation be paid to her. 
The CMC provided its response to our investigators assessment. It repeated its previous 
comments that Avivas advice to Mrs H in 1992, 1993 and 1998 was unsuitable and agreed 
that she should be compensated in respect of this. It stated that our investigator didnt 
consider whether redress should be calculated on the basis that Mrs H purchased Past 
Added Years (PAYs) rather than a charges only comparison. In response, our investigator 
stated that, based on the information provided, he was unable to reach the opinion that                  
Mrs H wouldve opted for PAYs rather than an in-house AVC plan had she been placed into 
an informed position.
Following our investigators assessment, Aviva agreed to carry out a charges only loss 
assessment in respect of the 1992 and 1993 advice. However, despite multiple chasers sent 
by our investigator, Aviva has, as at the date of this final decision, failed to provide its 
response regarding whether it would also be prepared to carry out a charges only loss 
assessment in respect of the 1998 advice. Since Aviva failed to respond by the latest 
deadline stipulated by our investigator, this complaint has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time
Aviva previously agreed to carry out a charges only loss assessment in respect of the 
advice it provided to Mrs H in 1992 and 1993. So its not necessary for me to consider the 
suitability of that advice. All that remains is for me to consider the suitability of the advice it 
provided to Mrs H in 1998 and the basis of redress. Ive considered these points under 
separate headings below.
1998 advice
In 1996, the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) published its Regulatory Update in 
respect of the sale of AVCs and FSAVCs (RU20). The advice here, in 1998, postdates that 
update. So at the time of the Avivas advice, in accordance with RU20, it was required to:
draw Mrs Hs attention to the in-house AVC scheme;
discuss the differences between the FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC schemes in 
generic terms, including the likely lower charges of in-house AVC schemes; and
direct Mrs H to her employer or occupational pension scheme trustees for further 
information about the in-house AVC scheme
In responding to this complaint, Aviva stated that it couldnt locate the 1998 sales file, but 
was able to find and provide a copy of the illustration, key features leaflet, Its Your Choice 
retirement brochure and declaration signed by Mrs H. Ive reviewed these documents. This 
evidence proves that Mrs H was made aware of the availability of in-house AVC schemes. 
However, theres no reference about the likely lower charges of in-house AVC schemes or 
that Mrs H should refer to her employer or occupational pension scheme trustees for further 
information. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mrs H was made adequately aware of the 
difference in charging structures between the FSAVC and in-house AVC options. This is a 
key point. As such, I dont think she was given enough information during the advice process 
in 1998 to understand the important differences between the schemes. And in my view if 
fully informed of the likely cost benefit of the in-house AVC option, Mrs H would have chosen 
this. So, in addition to the 1992 and 1993 advice, I think its fair and reasonable that Aviva 
carry out a loss assessment in respect of the 1998 advice too and pay any redress due to 
Mrs H.
Basis of redress
The CMC stated that our investigator didnt consider whether redress should be calculated on the basis that Mrs H purchased PAYs rather than a charges only comparison. In 
response, our investigator stated that based on the information provided, he was unable to 
reach the opinion that Mrs H wouldve opted for PAYs rather than an in-house AVC plan. 
Having considered the matter, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill 
explain why. Ive seen nothing to make me think PAYs wouldve appealed to Mrs H more 
than the in-house AVC plan. On realistic assumptions of future growth when the advice was 
given in the 1990s, the benefits from the in-house AVC at retirement wouldve likely 
appeared greater than those benefits from PAYs. At that time PAYs wouldve looked like the 
more expensive option. In addition, PAYs come with spousal benefits which Mrs H wouldve 
have been paying for despite the fact her marital status was recorded as single when she 
was advised. Under the in-house AVC she wouldve have been able to secure an annuity on 
a single life basis, maximising her income compared to income on a joint life basis. So, 
overall, Im not convinced that redress should be on the basis Mrs H wouldve chosen to buy 
PAYs.
Putting things right
Aviva has already agreed to carry out a charges only loss assessment in respect of the 
advice it provided to Mrs H in 1992 and 1993. For the avoidance of doubt, I direct it to do 
this. In addition, I direct it to carry out a charges only loss assessment in respect of the 
advice it provided to Mrs H in 1998. The redress calculation must be carried out in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment 
below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available 
for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view, the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. Of this amount, 25% of the 
loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  which Ive decided is 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must redress Mrs H as Ive set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman