DRN-3164061
The complaint
Mr E complains about the poor level of service he received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr E contacted BG online and booked an appointment on 3 November 2020, as his heating 
stopped. That appointment was cancelled but re-scheduled for 7 November 2020, when the 
engineer arrived, and an assessment of the repairs were made. On 9 November 2020 an 
engineer returned, and a power flush was carried out. 
The power flush initially appeared to resolve the issue but in December 2020, Mr E 
contacted BG again to report the same fault. Another appointment was arranged for the 
earliest time on 8 January 2021, but this was rescheduled to 21 January 2021, which was 
then cancelled. 
A new appointment was fixed for 23 January 2021 and the engineer fitted a new pump and 
advised a power flush.  Over the course of several days in February, various BG engineers 
carried out several repairs such as replacing pipework, replacing a filter, draining the system 
and carrying out a power flush. Mr E said that during this time, he lost hot water, but that was 
resolved. 
The power flush didnt resolve the issue and BG recommended another power flush with 
stronger chemicals to be used and another appointment was booked for 3 March 2021. This 
had to be rearranged to 10 March (where the chemicals were added in the system) with the 
actual power flush being carried out on 17 March 2021, which fixed the problem.
Mr E raised a complaint with BG due to the number of failed/rescheduled appointments. He 
said that he had to purchase temporary heaters to heat his home given his and his wifes 
ages and health concerns. He also said that he was unable to provide respite care for foster 
children, given the loss of the facilities. Therefore, he had lost income.
BG offered compensation of £100 and to reimburse the cost of the heaters (if proof of 
purchase was provided). Mr E didnt accept this offer as he said that £1,000 compensation 
was reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. In its final response, BG again accepted 
that there were poor service issues and offered £250 compensation. Mr E wasnt happy and 
referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that BG took time to resolve the issues with his system, which couldve been completed 
sooner, had the appointments not been rescheduled. But it recognised its failings and 
offered £250 compensation, which she thought was fair and reasonable. 
She also said that had Mr E provided invoices for the heaters he said he had to buy, then 
BG wouldve refunded the cost. But as he hadnt done so it was reasonable for BG not to 
reimburse without the proof of purchase.  
As to the respite care, her view was that payment made for this was for expenses and not 
income. In any event, as Mr E had said he was shielding, this wouldve prevented him from 
offering such care. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably ask BG to do.
BG accepted the view, Mr E did not. He said that he had an insurance policy that had failed 
to deliver as BG had constantly let him down. He felt that this warranted higher 
compensation and so asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr E will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Mr E had a home emergency policy that covered his boiler, plumbing, central heating 
system, drains and electrics. The main issue of this complaint is whether Mr Es policy had 
failed to deliver and whether this warranted the higher level of compensation Mr E sought.
BG accepted that its customer service fell well below its usual standards and indeed the 
standards it normally adhered to in the terms and conditions of the policy that Mr E had. 
For this recognition, it offered £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. 
BG said that the reason why some of the appointments had to be rescheduled was due to 
the industrial actions of its engineers, which meant that this was out of its control. Having 
considered the general conditions of the policy, it provides: Well carry out any repairs or 
visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes 
that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another 
time when we can visit. Although I understand how frustrating the rescheduled 
appointments wouldve been, I cant say that this was in BG control and I cant agree that BG 
didnt do what it could, given the circumstances at the time. 
Mr E also complains that BG ought to have resolved the issues with his heating and hot 
water sooner. I have no doubt that had the appointments not been rescheduled; BG 
wouldve been able to attend to Mr Es issues sooner. But Mr E hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that all the work BG carried out to resolve the issues wasnt required and 
no evidence to show that had a different repair solution been adopted by BG, it wouldve led 
to a quicker repair. So, Im satisfied that the work carried out by BG was fair and reasonable. 
Taking all this into consideration and that BG recognised its shortcomings, I think that the 
offer of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, is fair and reasonable. 
I have next considered the refund that Mr E seeks for the heaters that he purchased. BG has 
agreed to refund the purchase price of the heaters, provided Mr E send them an invoice to 
prove purchase. Mr E was asked to provide the invoice and has not provided this. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable for BG to ask for proof of purchase. Of course, 
once Mr E provides the evidence, then as BG has indicated, it will refund. 
Turning to Mr Es lost earnings. Mr Es home emergency policy doesnt give him cover for 
loss of earnings  that is, its not something hes entitled to claim for under his contract of 
insurance. And I must also say any home emergency is going to involve a policy holder in 
some inconvenience including, almost inevitably, taking time off for an engineer to come in 
and put things right. But Mr E said that during this period he was shielding and as such, I think that he wouldnt 
have been able to offer respite care. Further, I understand that payments for respite care are 
limited to expenses only, which cant be deemed an income. Consequently, I dont think Mr 
E has lost any earnings and I dont think its fair or reasonable for BG to reimburse such 
costs. 
Taking all the above into consideration, I dont think BG was unreasonable or unfair in its 
offer of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman