DRN-3761785
The complaint
Mr K complains about TSB Bank plc expecting him to repay a loan amount when he was in 
dispute with them, which has led to negative markers being left on his credit file. Hed like 
these markers removed.
What happened
Mr K held a number of accounts with TSB, including a current account and a loan account. 
In April 2021 TSB decided to close his current account and wrote to him to tell him hed need 
to make alternative arrangements for any payments out of his account. He raised a 
complaint with the bank and then our service about his account being restricted and £600 
being withheld by the bank.
Subsequently three payments to the loan were missed. TSB wrote to Mr K to let him know 
about the missed loan repayments, but Mr K complained saying that he had an ongoing 
complaint with our service about the account closure and withheld funds. TSB responded to 
say these two complaints related to separate issues, and that he would still need to contact 
them to make up the missed loan repayments.
Mr K paid off his remaining loan balance in full in July; but referred his complaint about the 
loan repayments to our service. One of our investigators looked into what happened but 
didnt think TSB needed to do anything further. She was satisfied that any dispute about 
Mr Ks current account wouldnt negate his responsibilities to maintain the loan repayments. 
She was satisfied as loan repayments were missed it was reasonable for TSB to record 
these with the credit reference agencies. 
Mr K disagreed. He said that the previous complaint about the withheld funds was a massive 
factor, as it meant he couldnt trust the bank and the bank didnt have the right to hold on to 
this money. He also said that the closure of his accounts without reason was a factor as to 
why he couldnt pay. He provided further information about his personal and medical 
circumstances that he asked to be taken into consideration. But the investigator didnt think 
this changed the outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has previously had a complaint about the withheld money. Our service issued a final 
decision. The ombudsman found that TSB should have released these funds to him earlier 
and offered appropriate redress. I dont intend to revisit these points again within this 
decision.
I appreciate that Mr K was at the time in dispute with TSB about these funds, and that he 
was also disappointed that TSB had taken the decision to close his bank account. But I dont 
consider this extinguishes any responsibly on Mr K to continue repaying his loan  its a 
separate account. There was no dispute about whether the money from the loan was owed. 
There was an agreement between the parties for this loan to be repaid, and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest TSB had agreed to suspend or defer payments while there was a dispute 
ongoing. So, I dont see it as unreasonable that TSB continued to ask for repayment.
I accept that once TSB had cancelled any outgoing payments from his account, including the 
direct debit for the loan, it would then be more inconvenient for Mr K to arrange a new 
payment method. But he had two weeks before any payment was due. Hes also stated he 
had arranged alternative banking arrangements by the time the payment was due. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest it would have been impossible, or onerous on him to arrange an 
alternative payment method.
Once the loan got into arrears its not unreasonable for TSB to send communication to Mr K 
reminding him of the need to make repayments. Ive reviewed the correspondence and Im 
satisfied these are clear in what payments are required, and what the likely effect on his 
credit file would be if payments werent made.
The evidence shows that three payments to Mr Ks loan werent made on time. As such its 
fair for TSB to record this on his credit file  as per the terms of his loan. This is factual 
information thats an accurate reflection of how the account was operated.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about his personal circumstances, and Im very sorry to 
hear how difficult he found this situation. But I cant say that TSB have been unfair or 
unreasonable in how theyve handled his loan account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman