DRN-1854348
 
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy Dooneen Ltd trading as McGinness Associates (Dooneen) removed an
offer to reduce their fee and help her with a repayment plan.
What happened
In March 2019, Miss W signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing Dooneen to pursue PPI
claims on her behalf. Miss W said she isn't disputing she owes Dooneen a fee for work they
have done in getting successful PPI claims for her. But she thinks the amount charged is 
too high. And Dooneen should have reduced the fee she owed as her financial 
circumstances and priorities had changed.
Miss W said Dooneen had offered to reduce their fee to 20% plus VAT, pay her £50 for poor
service and £75 for referring someone to their service. But had taken away this offer.
Dooneen said, as they were based in Scotland, they could charge their fee of 30% plus VAT.
And theyd tried to help by offering to reduce their fee if Miss W paid it within 14 days. But
Miss W hadn't agreed, so they'd withdrawn the offer. They also said that Miss W would
receive her referral fee of £75 should that PPI claim be successful. And offered £50 to
compensate Miss W for the frequency of their communications with her and failing to 
actively pursue a response from one of her lenders.
Our investigator said Dooneen could justify their fee. But should work with Miss W to 
arrange a suitable repayment plan. 
Miss W wasn't happy that Dooneen wanted evidence of her finances. And said the
investigator hadn't been impartial in reaching his view. She asked for an ombudsman to
decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm minded to uphold 
this complaint. I'll explain why.
Miss W isn't disputing she'd agreed for Dooneen to act on her behalf in pursuing her
PPI claims. And that she should pay them a fee for her successful claims. But what I need 
to determine is whether the fee charged by Dooneen was justified. And whether they have
acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with Miss W. Dooneen has agreed to pay the
£75 referral fee, so I wont comment further on this.
The agreement Miss W had with Dooneen was on a No win No fee basis. This means
Dooneen charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work it did.So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was
successful, Dooneen's fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did.
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
Miss W signed an LoA in March 2019 that authorised Dooneen to act on her behalf in
looking into PPI claims. And as Miss W had several successful claims Dooneen charged
their success fee, The LoA says Dooneens fee was 30% plus VAT. And it also gave
monetary examples of what payments their customers would receive.
But the Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management
Regulator (CMR) to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. CMRs jurisdiction didnt extend to
Scotland  it was England and Wales only. But the fee cap did apply to all regulated
businesses irrespective of their location. And I can see that Dooneen was regulated by the
CMR when the fee cap was introduced.
The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, regulated claims management
companies (CMC) couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT. The
fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesnt apply to agreements entered into before this date.
As Miss W signed the LoA in March 2019, Dooneen, as a CMR regulated CMC, should 
have only charged Miss W a fee of 20% plus VAT as her claim was made after the 
introduction of the fee cap. And I think the LoA should have reflected this and not the 30% 
plus VAT it stated.
So, I think its unfair and unreasonable for Dooneen to seek a fee of 30% plus VAT. As their
fee should have been capped at 20% plus VAT rather than being offered as an option for
Miss W with a caveat for settlement. 
I think Dooneen by inferring they could charge the higher fee and by adding a time limit to
this offer has caused Miss W additional trouble and upset. Dooneen had offered £50 as
compensation for the service theyd provided . But I think for the additional trouble and 
upset caused to Miss W Dooneen should pay her a further £200 to reflect this. In total £250.
Miss W has said she is unable to pay the fee outright. And Id expect Dooneen to treat Miss
W positively and sensitively in reaching a repayment agreement that is sustainable. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Miss W didn't provide any further evidence for me to consider.
Dooneen didn't agree with my findings and found the amount of compensation excessive. 
But said they would accept the decision. They added they would deduct the award made for 
trouble and upset caused to Miss W from her outstanding debt.
They said they would act positively and sensitively in their dealings with Miss W to establish 
a suitable and sustainable repayment plan. And that they would require the completion of an 
income and expenditure form to assess the level of repayment.
They added the referral fee of £75 once awarded would be deducted from any outstanding 
debt.
 
 
  
 My final findings
I outlined in my provisional decision that I didn't think it was fair for Dooneen to charge Miss 
W a percentage fee higher than the fee cap introduced in July 2018. And that by the 
suggestion that Dooneen was giving a reduction in their fee as an option for early settlement 
I didn't think was fair. 
From July 2018, the limit Dooneen should have charged as a success fee was 20% plus 
VAT. I think by not applying the fee cap as they should have caused Miss W considerable 
trouble and upset.
The award of £250 was for the trouble and upset caused to Miss W. And so it will be for her 
to decide whether she wants to use this in part settlement of her claim. 
So, Dooneen shouldn't  deduct this from the outstanding debt without the agreement of Miss 
W. 
I'm pleased Dooneen will act positively and sensitively to seek a sustainable repayment plan 
with Miss W, and trust she will work with them to achieve this.
I made no comment about the £75 referral fee in my provisional decision, so it will be for 
Dooneen to decide upon how this is paid. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Dooneen trading as McGinness Associates to cap their fee 
to 20% plus VAT. And pay Miss W £250 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman