DRN-3105574
The complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan Norwich Finance Limited trading as 
guarantormyloan.co.uk lent to him. He says the loan was irresponsibly lent.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, in summary, Norwich lent Mr B 
one loan in March 2016, the loan was for £5,000 due to be repaid over 60 instalments of 
£195.35.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint, but Norwich disagreed, it said it carried out 
sufficient checks and made a fair lending decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Norwich provided a loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Norwich to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Norwich had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr G. In practice this meant that 
Norwich had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Norwich to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Having carefully thought about all the relevant factors in this case, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Norwich carried out sufficient checks before agreeing to lend. I can see that it 
checked Mr Bs credit report, obtained bank statements and completed an income 
and expenditure for Mr B. 
I think some of the information revealed by the checks should have concerned 
Norwich. I say this because although Mr B says he was borrowing to consolidate 
some of his other credit, I think his credit report made it clear that he was likely reliant 
on credit, borrowing from one lender to repay another.
I have also looked at Mr Bs financial position taking into account the consolidation 
and I can see that even after consolidating his loan, he was still due to repay more 
than £1,000 monthly towards unsecured credit. In my view that was a significant 
amount of his £2,100 monthly income. Given the length of the loan and Mr Bs overall 
circumstances, Norwich should have been aware that there was a significant risk that 
Mr B would struggle to make the repayments on this loan throughout the term.
The fact that Mr B managed to repay the loan doesnt mean he did so in a 
sustainable manner and without further borrowing. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Norwich should have lent to Mr B and it needs to put things right.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid towards the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Bs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Norwich Finance Limited 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Norwich Finance Limited to put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman