DRN-3031233
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Barclays offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr W paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received  but that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr W has said the PPI was included as part of the credit card package, but I think it more 
likely Barclays made it clear to Mr W that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because of the paperwork and information that Barclays has been 
able to give us from the time of the sale. This includes a copy of Mr Ws short form 
credit card application and agreement that he completed and signed and sent back to 
Barclays. Barclays has told us that once received it would have called Mr W to have 
completed the application and the PPI would have been offered at the same time. 
Barclays hasnt been able to give us a recording of the call, but I dont find this surprising 
as this took place over 15 years ago and businesses arent obliged to keep records 
indefinitely. But it has been able to give us the relevant scripts that it says were in use at 
the time and I think it likely the representative who spoke with Mr W would have followed 
the script in the usual way. Its clear from the scripts that the PPI was presented as 
optional as well as establishing his demands and needs and eligibility for the policy. So, 
taking all of this into account, I think Mr W was made aware the policy was optional and 
that he chose to add it to his account when he completed his credit card application over 
the phone. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And the evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr W was eligible for the 
cover and he had limited means to fall back on, so he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr W says he had two medical conditions some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Barclays to have 
recommended it. I say this because the first condition was in 1998 and the second was a 
one off operation in 2000 and because of the time that had passed before Mr W applied 
for the policy it wouldnt have impacted on his ability to make a claim. And in any event, 
Mr W didnt tell us of any ongoing problems as a result of either condition so I dont think 
it likely that he would have thought he would needed to make a claim on the policy 
because of them. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
and back problems.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. Mr W has said he was financially stretched at the time of the sale, but he 
hasnt given us anything to show this was the case. As I dont have any evidence to 
indicate it was unaffordable for him  it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr W would have declined the cover 
had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received, 
and that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mr W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case. 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr W should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Mr W about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for     
Mr W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclays failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr W paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr W 
with the policy which Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Barclays had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Barclays payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Barclays has already paid Mr W compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ws complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) As 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman