DRN-3870977
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) administered his account with it. 
What happened
L2G approved Mr T for a £250 loan in April 2021. The term of the loan was 18 months and 
the repayments were approximately £57 per month. Mr T complained that he believed the 
term of the loan was three months not 18 months. He also complains that L2G did not offer 
sufficient forbearance when he began to experience financial difficulties repaying the loan. In 
connection to this, Mr T says that L2G continued to take money via a continuous payment 
authority (CPA), even when he was in a debt management plan.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She argued that whilst she was satisfied the loan term 
was clearly explained to Mr T, that L2G had not offered sufficient forbearance when he 
began to encounter financial difficulties. She recommended that L2G refund interest and 
charges paid by Mr T.
L2G disagreed with the opinion of our investigator. It also further argued that it could not 
refund any interest and charges to Mr T, as it had structured his loan agreement in such a 
way that all interest and charges had already been applied to the loan. It therefore 
maintained that Mr T was not due any further redress.
Mr T responded accepting the findings of our investigator. 
Before going on to consider my findings in this case; I think it is important to highlight the key 
timeline of events in this case. This is a summary of the events so some details are omitted 
for the sake of conciseness:
April 2021  Loan taken out.
July 2021  Mr T asks for a change in his payment date. L2G does not receive a 
payment on time.  Mr T says he is struggling and wants to set up a CPA.
August 2021  Mr T makes a double payment to cover missed July 2021 payment. 
Mr T makes this manually and there is a discussion over the CPA. 
September 2021  Mr T calls in to ask for a two-month payment holiday. L2G ask Mr 
T to complete an income and expenditure assessment. Mr T raises his complaint.
October 2021 - L2G issues its final response letter not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
November 2021  Mr T does not make his payment. He says he has a new job and 
will make the payment in December 2021. 
December 2021  Mr T says he is going to go to a debt advice charity as he is 
experiencing financial hardship. The third-party debt charity sends L2G a 60 day 
breathing space letter. After this letter is sent L2G takes a payment via the CPA
January 2022 -  a further payment is taken via the CPA.
February 2022 - L2G contacts Mr T to ask him to make a further payment as there 
are still arrears on his account. Mr T confirms he is in a debt management plan. 
L2G places the account on hold.
In April and May 2022 L2G takes further payments via the CPA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. All parties agree that there is 
no further action required in regards to Mr Ts complaint regarding the term of the loan. Im 
also satisfied that the term of the loan was sufficiently clear to Mr T prior to him entering into 
the contract; and as such Im satisfied that L2G did not act unreasonably in that regard. The 
rest of this decision will instead focus on how L2G responded when it was told Mr T couldnt 
make his payments and any potential redress due to Mr T as a result.
L2G says that it has acted reasonably in handling Mr Ts complaint. In relation to the CPA it 
says that it received no instructions from either Mr T nor the debt management company to 
cancel it. As such it acted fairly in continuing to take payments under it. In relation to the 
actions of forbearance, whilst L2G did not expressly say it disagreed with the findings of our 
investigator, it did say that it could not offer any interest relief to Mr T. This is because L2G 
says that all interest and charges were front loaded to Mr Ts account. This meant that it 
could not freeze any interest or charges on the account, when it became aware of Mr Ts 
difficulty making payment, as these were already applied when the loan was incepted.
Ill start by setting out that Im satisfied L2G shouldve done more to help Mr T in this case. 
As can be demonstrated by the timeline of events, L2G was aware Mr T was encountering 
issues with his repayments from an early point in its relationship with him. The contact notes 
demonstrate that Mr T first missed a payment in July 2021, and that he was struggling to 
arrange his finances, leading to a request for the CPA. Following this, it is clear that Mr Ts 
payments toward the loan were sporadic at best, and on balance demonstrated that he was 
struggling to manage his finances sustainably. Whilst I note that acted L2G in line with what I 
would expect when Mr T raised his concerns in September 2021, Im not satisfied it did so 
when he informed them of his plan to go to debt charity in December 2021.
By this point Mr Ts account was in arrears. He had already asked for a payment holiday, 
and had told L2G that he was experiencing a change in his employment status. Mr T had 
also raised a formal complaint. L2G also later in the same month received a breathing space 
letter from the debt management charity on behalf of Mr T. So Im satisfied at that point in 
December 2021 L2G should have acted with more forbearance towards Mr T. I note that 
L2G did not place Mr Ts account on hold until a further two months later in February 2022. 
Im satisfied that L2G, shouldve reasonably taken this action as soon as it became aware of 
Mr Ts difficulty making his payments, in December 2022. I say this because Im satisfied by 
that point L2G shouldve reasonably realised the arrears and the management of the 
account was such that forbearance was required.
It follows that as Im satisfied L2G shouldve taken further steps to help Mr T in December 
2022, that it therefore needs to put things right for any financial and non-financial loss Mr T 
suffered as a result after this point.
In relation to the payments taken by the CPA; L2G says that it did not act unfairly by continuing to take these payments. I disagree with this. Ultimately L2G was aware that Mr T 
was struggling. It had received a 60 day breathing space letter from the debt charity on 
behalf of Mr T; and as such ought to have acted to place the account on hold at that point. 
Whilst it may be that Mr T did not contact L2G to cancel the CPA; Im satisfied that it is 
sufficiently clear that at that point he was not in a position to make further payments towards 
the loan. And he was also reasonably entitled to believe that the letter from the debt charity 
was sufficient for this to be done. 
This is exacerbated further by the fact that when Mr T began to make payments through his 
debt management plan, L2G was still taking payments via the CPA. This resulted in Mr T in 
effect making more than his contractual payments at a time when he was in financial 
difficulty. That seems self-evidently unfair. As such Im satisfied that L2G needs to take 
action to put things right in relation to this aspect of Mr Ts complaint too. Ill set this out 
further in the below section.
Turning to L2Gs arguments in relation to the structure of interest on Mr Ts loan account. 
L2G says that all interest and charges are added at the start of the loan; and therefore there 
are no interest and charges which can be refunded to Mr T. 
Ive considered this argument, but again I disagree with it. When coming to this conclusion 
Ive considered the relevant rules and regulations at the time the loan was taken out. This 
includes CONC 7 and the FCA Principle 6 obligations.
I accept that how a lender chooses to structure a loan and whether it adds all of the interest 
at the start or on a daily basis, is a matter for the lender itself to decide. However, just 
because a lender adds all of the interest at the start of the loan it doesnt automatically follow 
that all of this interest is due and payable.
I say this because there is a difference between what a consumer owes or may owe should 
a loan run to its full term and any interest that actually accrues. So just because L2G 
decided to add all of the interest due on this loan at the outset this doesnt mean that all of 
this interest had already accrued at this time. This is because the interest added was 
calculated on the basis that L2G would be owed at least a portion of the amount advanced 
(depending on the amortisation schedule) for the 18-month term of the loan.
Indeed, if I take L2Gs argument that there was no interest to consider suspending, reducing, 
waiving or cancelling because it had already been added to the balance to its logical 
conclusion, this would effectively mean that, on a loan where all of the interest was added at 
the outset, a customer would have to pay 18 months worth of interest even if they decided 
to repay the loan after a few months. And it would be plainly absurd to suggest that a 
customer in this position would have to pay all of the interest due over the full term in these 
circumstances.
If I were to accept L2Gs argument here, it would also in essence mean that all consumers 
who had their loans structured in such a way would never be entitled to forbearance 
measures. And considering that consumers have no say in how their loans are structured, 
this again would seemingly be plainly unfair and not in accordance with L2Gs overarching 
obligation to treat its customers fairly. 
In this instance, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there are a number of reasons why 
L2Gs failure to consider a reduction in interest (or in this case a refund of the unpaid 
interest), given what it knew about Mr Ts circumstances by the time it started accepting 
reduced payments through the debt management plan, wasnt in accordance with the rules 
and guidance set out at the time. And whilst Im satisfied that L2G was entitled to charge 
interest on the loan during the period leading up to December 2021, Im not satisfied that it can take the approach of not applying any reduction in what Mr T owes simply because the 
interest and charges had been applied at the start of the loan.
Im satisfied L2Gs failure to consider a reduction or removal of interest at this point wasnt 
fair and reasonable. And as such Im satisfied that it did not acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr T; and as such it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
As L2Gs actions have caused Mr T a loss, Im satisfied it needs to put things right.
In relation to the CPA payments taken after L2G received the 60 day breathing space letter 
from the debt management company, I accept that these payments being returned may not 
be in the best interest of Mr T. This is because they have gone on to reduce the balance he 
owed to L2G. And asking L2G to return these funds at this stage would be akin to lending 
him further funds.
However, Im satisfied that L2G continuing to take these payments in the way that it did 
caused Mr T to suffer non-financial loss in the form of distress and inconvenience. This is 
because Im satisfied that L2G ought to have realised that by continuing to take these 
payments even though it was aware Mr T was experiencing financial difficulties meant that it 
was likely making a difficult situation worse. I can also see that from the contact notes this 
error continued on repeated times, including after a debt management was plan was agreed. 
Therefore Im satisfied that L2G needs to make a compensation award of £250 to reflect the 
impact on Mr T.
In relation to the interest on the account, as Ive explained earlier in this decision, there isnt 
an automatic requirement for a lender to waive all unpaid interest as part of any forbearance 
measure it puts in place. Nonetheless, I think that it was unfair for L2G not to reduce the 
balance at all in December 2021. Im also satisfied that Mr Ts original payment schedule 
would have structured on the basis where a portion of the payment went towards paying the 
interest accrued that month and the remainder went towards reducing the capital owed. 
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for L2G to retain the amount of the payments that 
would have gone towards interest had Mr T made his payments from inception to December 
2021. After this point Im satisfied that L2G ought to have frozen Mr Ts interest as it was 
clear he was experiencing financial hardship and was entering into a debt management plan. 
I appreciate what L2G has said about the interest having already been added. However, that 
doesnt mean it couldnt reduce Mr Ts outstanding balance by the amount of any added but 
as yet unpaid interest.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for L2G to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ts balance so that the total amount of the monthly payments that 
would have gone towards interest from December 2021 onwards, according to 
amortisation schedule based on daily interest, if these payments had been made, are 
removed.    
AND
pay Mr T £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by L2G continuing to take 
payments via the CPA after it was notified by a debt management company of Mr Ts 
financial difficulties.If this results in Mr T having paid more than he owes then L2G needs to refund any 
overpayments with 8% interest simple a year*
If after these calculations Mr T still owes a balance, then it needs to work with Mr T 
(and any debt management plan) to come to a suitable repayment plan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman