DRN-3969071
The complaint
Mr S says when he claimed on his van insurance policy with Highway Insurance Company 
Limited the repairs to the van werent acceptable. He also says the long delays in the 
process led to great inconvenience and upset for him and his family. 
What happened
Mr S told us the van went into a garage instructed by Highway in March 2021 and was 
returned to him two months later. But the repaired bumper fell off shortly afterwards on a 
motorway. The van was back in the garage from June 2021 to July 2021. On its return, Mr S 
wasnt happy with the rectification work and didnt want the van to go back to the garage. 
Highway struggled to find another repairer, but Mr S found one. He says it took Highway five 
months to agree the new garages estimate. The van went in for further work with the second 
garage in January 2022 and was returned to Mr S in April 2022. 
Although Highway provided substitute vans throughout the repair process, Mr S says they 
werent suitable for family purposes, as they were smaller than his own van. Highway paid 
him £100 compensation when he complained. He told us the second garage didnt repair the 
van properly and theres damage to its left-hand side. Mr S also said he and his partner 
spent their savings on buying the van, rather than on a deposit for a house, and that the 
vehicle was very important to them for family life, as well as central to their business. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. He thought Highway should pay Mr S 
£500 compensation in total, given the inconvenience caused by the delays and the need for 
rectification of the repairs. Highway agreed to his proposal, but Mr S didnt. 
Subsequently, Mr Ss representative told us that as the van still wasnt properly repaired, he 
kept having to use glue to keep parts in place. She said the replacement vans had been 
changed regularly whilst repairs were done at both garages, causing Mr S and his partner to 
take time off work to return / collect vehicles. She said some of Mr Ss tools were stolen by 
one of the garages. The representative also said as that as the replacement vans were 
small, Mr S and his partner couldnt bring their dog to work. So Mr Ss partner stayed at 
home with it (having given up work to help  Mr S in the business) whilst he paid for help.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I think the first garage had the van for an excessive amount of time, yet it still didnt carry out 
the repairs or the rectification work properly. Further unnecessary delay followed when 
Highways agent took so much time to deal with the second garages estimate. Mr S had the 
use of his van during that period, but it still put a hold on the start of further repairs, and 
meanwhile Mr Ss anxiety about his vans condition continued. 
 
The policy provides for a courtesy vehicle for the duration of the repairs. It says the 
replacement will usually be a small van. Highway ensured that Mr S had a replacement 
vehicle whenever the van was off the road. Anything other than a standard small vehicle  
would have had to be provided outside the policys standard terms, and there was no 
obligation on Highway to upgrade the standard cover. 
 
The file notes show that on 4 April 2022 Mr S told Highway that a family holiday was booked 
for the next week, and that the replacement van he had was only a three-seater. Highway 
checked and found that Mr Ss van was due to be returned to him the next day. But it said if 
the van wasnt returned in time for the holiday it would upgrade the hire to provide a bigger 
vehicle to Mr S. I think that was good service. It also paid Mr S £100 compensation at that 
point, as it thought the repairs had been going on for too long. It treated this an informal 
resolution of his complaint. 
Theres nothing on the file to show that Mr S told Highway he was regularly having to change 
replacement vans, or that his tools were stolen. The regular change in vans may (or may 
not) have been avoidable, but Highway wasnt given the chance to raise it with the hire firm. 
And as it seems Mr S didnt notice the theft straight away. He isnt sure where the tools were 
stolen from. So I cant see what Highway could have done about it, even if hed reported it.
Mr S told us from the start that the van was very important to him and his partner for family 
life. His representative says they had dreamt about using it for work and for family trips and 
holidays, in the UK and abroad. Thats why they spent so much money on buying it. So it 
must have been very upsetting for them when the van was damaged twice quite soon after 
its purchase, given their huge financial and emotional investment in it. 
Highways responsibility was to have the van repaired to a high standard, within a 
reasonable time, and to provide a replacement vehicle, in line with the standard policy terms. 
I think it did the latter, but as the delays and poor repairs had a great impact on Mr S, its 
appropriate for Highway to pay him compensation, which it has accepted. 
I think Mr S faced considerable distress and inconvenience over a lengthy period. His van 
was off the road for around six months in total, although the damage to it wasnt extensive. 
Mr S was able to use replacement vehicles for work, but the van wasnt used purely for work 
purposes. His investment in it meant the family had no other transport, and their activities 
were limited. So I think the impact of the vans absence was far greater on Mr S than it would 
have been on a typical consumer whose work van was off the road. 
I agree with the investigator about the bracket of compensation into which this case falls. But 
I think the level of inconvenience and upset to Mr S, plus the length of time it continued - and 
the impact on his and his familys life - mean this complaint sits at the top of that bracket. So 
Im minded to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for Highway to pay Mr S £750 for 
distress and inconvenience.   
I cant see anything on the file to show that Mr S has complained to Highway about the 
second garages repairs. If the work still hasnt been completed to the right standard, Mr S 
needs to contact Highway so it can investigate and try to resolve the matter. If he isnt 
satisfied with Highways resolution, Mr S can make a further complaint to us. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr S accepted them, and 
Highway made no comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S accepted my findings, and Highway didnt comment, I see no reason to depart from 
them, so for the reasons stated above, I think Highway should pay Mr S £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman