DRN-2193509
The complaint
Ms T has complained about action taken by Santander UK Plc in connection with her 
mortgage.
What happened
Ms T has a mortgage account with Santander. She suffers from ill-health and she has 
problems in her personal life which have made it difficult for her to make the monthly 
payments due under the terms of her mortgage.
Ms T had complained to Santander in 2013 about the way it had treated her up to then. She 
referred that complaint to this service and it was resolved. In January 2020 she asked this 
service to consider action taken by Santander after she complained in 2013. This service 
couldnt consider the complaint at that stage because Ms T hadnt given Santander an 
opportunity to respond to it.
In April 2020 Ms T wrote to Santander giving it details of her complaint. She said Santander 
had sent field agents to visit her on two occasions and had added charges to her mortgage 
account for the visits. She said the visits werent necessary because she had been making 
the mortgage payments and Santander had caused problems with her credit history. She 
also said shed asked Santander for permission to let her property and it hadnt replied to her 
request.
Santander didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. It said it had arranged the visits by field agents to 
try to rebuild communication with her. It said the information it had given to credit reference 
agencies CRAs about Ms Ts payment was fair and accurate. It explained what Ms T would 
need to do to enable it to review her request to let the property.
Ms T wasnt happy with Santanders response and asked this service to consider her 
complaint. Our investigator did this but didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
They didnt think Santander had acted unfairly when it attempted to rectify Ms Ts account.
Ms T didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has an obligation to treat customers who are in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. I need to consider whether Santander has complied with that obligation in 
Ms Ts case.
Ive seen a statement of Ms Ts mortgage account from January 2014 to April 2020 when 
she complained to Santander. The account was in arrears for the whole of that period. Ms T 
has asked Santander not to communicate with her by telephone because it causes her 
distress. Santander has complied with this request and I can understand why it wanted to 
establish another means of communication.
The first occasion that Santander sent a field agent to visit Ms T was in January 2019. At 
that time Ms Ts account was over four months in arrears. It arranged another field agent 
visit in September 2019. The arrears had come down slightly by then but were still around 
four months.
I understand Ms T has had a very difficult time due to her ill-health and other problems. But I 
think that, given the situation regarding the arrears on the account, Santander was 
reasonably entitled to arrange the field agents visits when it did and to charge the cost of the 
visits to Ms Ts account.
Santander will pass information concerning Ms Ts mortgage to CRAs and it must be fair and 
accurate. Its inevitable that Ms Ts payment history will have an adverse effect on her credit 
rating. But I havent seen any evidence that would enable me to reasonably decide that 
Santander has given information about Ms T to CRAs that isnt fair and accurate.
Santander has told Ms T what she needs to do and the information it needs for it to respond 
to her request for permission to let her property. Im satisfied its treated her fairly and 
reasonably in connection with her request.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman