DRN-2178288
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his accounts without giving 
proper notice. He complains too that the bank registered a default marker with credit 
reference agencies.
What happened
Mr D had two accounts with NatWest. On 30 January 2017, NatWest wrote to Mr D saying 
that it would be closing his accounts after 60 days and inviting him to make alternative 
banking arrangements. 
Mr D had an agreed overdraft limit of £500 on his current account. The letter, of 30 January 
2017, explained that any monies owed to the bank must be repaid within 60 days of the date 
of the letter otherwise the bank would follow its normal debt recovery process. At the time of 
the letter Mr Ds current account was in credit. However, when the account closed at the end 
of March 2017, the account was overdrawn by just over £500.
Mr D says he never received the letter dated 30 January 2017, and he didnt know his 
account was overdrawn when it closed. And he says he only became away he owed the 
bank money when he was contacted by a debt collection agency in late 2017. He says if 
hed known he wouldve repaid his overdraft and its unfair for the bank to record a default 
against him.
NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to close Mr Ds accounts and 
recorded the default. Mr D wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. She said NatWest had acted in line 
with the terms of the account and hadnt treated Mr D unfairly when it registered a default 
against him. Mr D disagreed. He maintained that he never received a letter from the bank 
about the closure of his accounts. And didnt know he owed the bank any money. So, he 
says the bank has treated him unfairly when it registered a default against him.
My Provisional Decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ds complaint on 28 
July 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Firstly, Ill deal with the banks decision to close Mr Ds account. As the investigator 
explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. Banks should however, give 
reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that means 60 days, but it can be less 
depending on the circumstances. 
Mr D says hes banked with NatWest for many years and wants to know the reasons why 
NatWest decided it no longer wanted him as a customer. I can appreciate Mr D is upset and 
that he was caused inconvenience when the bank closed his accounts. But NatWest isnt 
obliged to provide Mr D with an explanation  as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say 
NatWest has done anything wrong by not providing Mr D with this information.   
NatWest was also within its rights to close Mr Ds accounts and did so in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations. The bank gave Mr D 60 days notice which gave him 
adequate time to make alternative arrangements if he wanted to do so. 
Mr D says he never received the letter from the bank telling him his accounts were to be 
closed. But I ve seen a copy of the letter dated 30 January 2017, which is addressed to the 
same address Mr D has provided to this service. Ive seen a screen shot showing the letter 
was sent. And I havent been made aware of any postal issues. So, Im satisfied NatWest 
sent the letter. 
Ive also looked at Mr Ds bank statements. And having looked at Mr Ds account activity I 
think its likely he received the banks closure letter. I say this because since July 2016, Mr D 
had several direct debits leaving his current account on regular dates. These included 
payments for a mortgage, a finance agreement and his mobile phone bill, which all usually 
left the account around the beginning and the end of the month. But these appear to stop at 
the end of February 2017. I can also see that a regular credit he received stopped coming 
into the account around this time, which was shortly before the date his account was due to 
be closed. This suggests to me that Mr D had made other arrangements to pay his direct 
debits and mortgage. So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more likely than not that Mr 
D did receive the letter which NatWest sent him dated 30 January 2017. And he was 
therefore aware the bank had decided to close his accounts.
overdraft and registering a default
An overdraft is a debt, but it doesnt operate in the same way as a loan or credit card for 
example. It doesnt require regular fixed or minimum payments. Mr Ds overdraft was, as is 
common, repayable on demand. That is, the bank was entitled to ask Mr D to repay it at any 
time, simply by giving notice to him. At the point the bank closed Mr Ds account he was 
overdrawn, and he owed money hed borrowed from the bank. 
The notice to close letter dated 30 January 2017, which the bank sent to Mr D clearly set out 
that he had to repay any money he owed the bank within 60 days. And if he didnt the bank 
would follow its normal debt recovery process. Mr D didnt repay the money when his 
account closed, so NatWest asked a debt management company to recover the money he 
owed. The bank also recorded a default against him on 31 August 2017. After being 
contacted by the debt management company in October 2017, Mr D made two payments to 
clear the debt in December 2017 and January 2018. And the bank recorded that the debt 
had been cleared. 
Mr D says he didnt know he owed the bank around £500 when it closed his accounts. And 
says he only became aware when debt collectors contacted him. But based on the activity 
on Mr Ds account, I dont think thats likely. I say this because I can see that on 21 March 
2017, Mr Ds balance was £5.02. He then made a further six transactions which were much 
higher than £5, between 23 and 28 March 2017, which took his balance to just over his 
overdraft limit of £500. The bank has also confirmed that Mr D was sent bank statements. 
So, taken together, Im satisfied Mr D knew or ought reasonably to have known that his 
account was overdrawn. And that he owed the bank money when his account was closed.Although an overdraft is repayable on demand, a default notice should normally follow a 
failure to comply with the demand before an account is defaulted. A default notice requires 
customers to take some action if they wish to avoid the default. Sometimes banks will 
require full and immediate payment. But many banks will also be prepared to enter into a 
repayment arrangement and hold off on registering the default.
Prior to issuing my decision, I asked the investigator to contact NatWest and the debt 
management company to find out whether Mr D was issued a default notice and what efforts 
were made to contact him about repaying the money prior to the default being recorded. I 
also asked Mr D for some more information about his circumstances around the time 
NatWest closed his account. 
NatWest werent able to provide me with any evidence to show that it sent Mr D a default 
notice, and that it had made any attempts to speak to him about the money he owed, such 
as setting up a repayment plan. The debt management company provided very limited 
information and simply said it had two phone calls with Mr D in late 2017, which led to him 
making two payments to clear the debt. But it couldnt provide any detail about the 
conversations. So, based on the information I currently have, Im not satisfied NatWest 
properly notified Mr D it its intention to record a default.
Mr D told the investigator that at the time his account was closed, he had enough money to 
clear the debt. And hes provided us with a bank statement, which showed a balance of just 
over £900 which he says he wouldve used to repay the overdraft. Hes also said he had 
credit cards and was working. So, he says he wouldve been in a position to repay the debt. 
Hes also provided a copy of his credit file which showed he had a good credit record and 
maintained payments on other lending he had at the time. Based on this information, I think 
its likely Mr D wouldve been in a position to repay the money he owed the bank.  And had 
NatWest followed the correct process, I think its more likely than not that the bank wouldnt 
have needed to register a default. So, Im currently minded to conclude that NatWest hasnt 
treated Mr D fairly and should remove the default marker registered against him.
In response to my provisional decision NatWest agreed to remove the default marker it had 
recorded against Mr Ds name. Mr D responded and said hed suffered trouble and upset 
because of the marker being applied. In particular, he said hed had a mortgage application 
turned down because of the marker. And he provided evidence to support this from his 
mortgage broker. I arranged for this information to be forwarded to NatWest. After reviewing 
the information NatWest agreed Mr D had suffered some trouble and upset. And offered him 
£500 compensation, which Mr D accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that NatWest sent Mr D a default 
notice, and that the bank made any attempt to speak to him about the money he owed, such 
as setting up a repayment plan. The debt management company provided very limited 
information and simply said it had two phone calls with Mr D in late 2017, which led to him 
making two payments to clear the debt. But it couldnt provide any detail about the 
conversations. So, based on the information, Im not satisfied NatWest properly notified Mr D 
it its intention to record a default.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr D had funds he could have used to repay the money he 
owed the bank. Mr D provided a copy of his credit file which showed he had a good credit 
record and maintained payments on other lending he had at the time. So overall, I think its likely Mr D wouldve been in a position to repay the money he owed the bank.  And had 
NatWest followed the correct process, I think its more likely than not that the bank wouldnt 
have needed to register a default. Im pleased to see that in response to my provisional 
decision, NatWest has agreed to remove the default marker. 
From what Mr D has said I dont doubt that the marker recorded by NatWest has impacted on 
him. In particular, Mr D has provided evidence to show that the marker prevented him from 
being able to secure a mortgage, which meant he had to spend time and effort trying to sort 
out his finances. So, I think NatWest should pay him compensation because they didnt follow 
the correct process before applying the default marker. When I consider the impact, the 
marker had on Mr D, I think £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in his individual case.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ds account. Having looked at all the 
circumstances of this particular complaint, Im satisfied that NatWest has acted in 
accordance with the terms of the account. And in line with the regulations when it decided to 
close Mr Ds accounts. For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision Im also 
satisfied that the bank let Mr D know it was closing his account.  So, I dont think the bank 
did anything wrong when it closed his accounts. 
In summary, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and that I have summarised 
again above, I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint. I dont think NatWest treated Mr D fairly when 
it recorded a default against him. And should pay him £500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ds complaint, National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mr K £500 compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered when NatWest 
unfairly placed a default marker against his name.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman