DRN-3315553
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure UK Services Limited (ReAssure) will not allow him to cash in 
his annuity with it. 
What happened
Mr S has an annuity with ReAssure which was originally taken out with another provider but 
ReAssure took over the administration and liability for it. Mr S receives an annuity of £239.83 
per year.
Mr S complained to ReAssure about his annuity in 2019. Hes explained that hed prefer a 
cash lump sum. ReAssure declined to offer this and said it was under no contractual 
obligation to offer this option. 
Mr S wanted to know the purchase price of the annuity but ReAssure said as the policy 
hadnt originally been taken out with it, it didnt have a record of that information. Mr S is 
unhappy that ReAssure wont provide a value for the annuity.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt uphold the complaint. She explained to Mr S 
that ReAssure was allowed to offer the option of a cash-value at its discretion, but it had 
chosen not to do so.
Mr S responded to say:
He believes the policy has been administered fraudulently as ReAssure took a long 
time to process his annuity and differing amounts have been advised
ReAssure has previously offered commutation of annuities and therefore they have 
set a precedent to repay annuities under £10,000.
Mr S believes the value of his policy is below £10,000 as Phoenix Life who own 
ReAssure has stated the payment criteria is annuities worth less than £300 per 
annum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has stated in response to the investigators view that he has concerns about the way 
his policy has been administered, he thinks it has been administered fraudulently. This isnt a 
complaint point I can directly answer as it didnt form part of the original complaint. However, 
Mr S did complain to ReAssure about it not providing evidence of the value of his annuity. 
ReAssure explained that when the policy migrated to it, Zurich were already paying the 
annuity and it has continued to pay the annuity on the basis it had from Zurich. 
From the evidence we have, I can see that in 2009 Mr S asked Windsor Life (formerly Zurich 
now ReAssure) if he could cash in his policy but it responded to say his policy is now an 
annuity and cannot be terminated or cashed in. It also went on to say he will continue to 
receive £239.83 gross for the rest of his life. I can also see that ReAssure sent information to 
the job centre in 2014 regarding Mr Ss annuity and it stated the annual payment was 
£239.83 and payments were not subject to an increase .This is in line with what ReAssure is 
paying now, so I think its more likely than not that ReAssure are paying Mr S the correct 
amount.
Mr S is very keen to know the value of his annuity as he wishes to know whether it is under 
the £10,000 threshold that allows annuities to be cashed in at a providers discretion. Its my 
understanding that the purchase price is somewhat immaterial to any attempt to value the 
annuity for the cashing in process that firms can now undertake. Rather it is the cost of 
providing that annuity for Mr S for the rest of his life that broadly sets a value for the cashing 
in process. However, ReAssure is right to say Mr Ss annuity doesnt have a value. The 
value of his fund was extinguished when it was exchanged for an annuity payable for life. 
Looking at Mr Ss age and the annuity he is paid per annum, I think if ReAssure was to offer 
him a cash value under the process described above, it would be under the £10,000 limit. 
However, this does not mean ReAssure has to make this offer to Mr S. Simply being under 
the threshold doesnt qualify annuitants to an offer of a cash value under the legislation. Ill 
explain why below:
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes 
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12) 
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)   the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition 
is met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;(b)   the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)  the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes 
cashing-in of annuities)  this was a permissive over-ride.  What this means is the schemes 
are allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Ss position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it 
can, but only up to a limit of £10,000. 
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
Principles for Businesses 
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of 
their business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should 
act in the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the 
expense of other customers. Nor to act in a customers interest without consideration of 
other factors or wider implications. 
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could 
cause issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
this case
1. Does ReAssure have discretion to commute Mr Ss annuity as requested? For example:
- Is the value under £10,000?
- Is Mr S the legal owner of the annuity?
- Is ReAssure the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If ReAssure is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Ss best interests to 
allow commutation? For example:
- Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
- Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Reassure was free to grant Mr Ss request to commute the annuity and doing so would 
have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Reassure to refuse? In other 
words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way? 
My findings in light of the above considerations
ReAssure hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mr S to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have 
discretion to commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr S to show that he would be worse off if 
he were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. So Ive proceeded on the presumption 
that it would be in Mr Ss personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether ReAssure fairly took into account Mr Ss 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr S to cash-in his annuity. 
As our investigator explained, ReAssure has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer 
a cash in value to customers (including Mr S), essentially because the annuity product 
wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult to offer that option now without 
incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to the detriment of other 
customers. It made a number of points about this, for example: 
- It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all 
its qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
- Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good. 
- To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant 
groundwork to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be 
considered on its customers and its business)
- Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing in offers.
- There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
- Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
- Where it has in the past offered cashing-in of annuities it has been offered on very select criteria and where the value was very low. The costs of widening these criteria 
was something it felt would have to be allowed for in its offers and therefore it 
wouldnt be offering fair value.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think ReAssures points here are fair ones.  I dont 
think ReAssure simply disregarded Mr Ss interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business 
model more widely. 
It seems to me that ReAssure could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to 
treat Mr Ss case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a 
business the size of ReAssure. However, I acknowledge ReAssures difficulty here. Im not 
persuaded there is reason in Mr Ss case to treat him differently to other customers with 
small annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
I appreciate ReAssure has previously allowed particular customers to cash-in annuities and 
Mr S has cited a particular case but I dont think it would be fair to say this sets a precedent 
that it has to follow indefinitely. And it has also previously offered a group of customers 
meeting certain criteria the opportunity to cash in their annuities. 
Mr S wants to know if he couldve met that criteria and I suspect that is why he is keen to put 
a value to his annuity. I think it wouldve been helpful for ReAssure to explain its position in 
terms of cashing in, in direct relation to Mr Ss annuity. But I can understand why it doesnt 
want to put a value to Mr Ss plan, as his annuity doesnt have a value. However, as we 
know, providers can at their discretion offer a fair value to customers for their annuities. This 
will be an actuarial calculation based on the cost of providing that annuity at a particular time 
(so estimates will be required here). And this will fluctuate depending on the circumstances 
at the time. There is no set valuation process in the legislation but based on Mr Ss age at 
the time the process was run and his annuity value, I think its likely it wouldve been above 
the value threshold set by ReAssure.
Ive kept in mind that Mr S would like a cash lump sum and he says the annuity isnt useful to 
him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mr S had a right 
to. And while ReAssure was free to allow his request, Im satisfied it did have other 
legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the 
impact on ReAssures existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more 
widely and the potential cost. 
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mr Ss 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr S in line with its other 
customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in 
the future ReAssure changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its 
possible Mr S may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say ReAssure must 
change its position at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this and Im sorry to hear of the financial hardship 
he is suffering but for the reasons explained I am not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman