DRN-3996229
The complaint
Mr S had courier insurance cover for his van with Wakam.  He says that when the van was 
stolen, Wakam didnt pay him enough to replace it.
What happened
Mr S got the policy through a broker, having bought the van from a private seller for £20,000. 
He says he insured it for £24,000 and spent £4,000 on it over the next year until it was stolen 
 by which time hed driven it for over 50,000 miles. An independent engineer instructed by 
Wakam valued the van at £16,705, having reconsidered a lower valuation. But Mr S said he 
couldnt replace the van for that sum, and that hed taken out a personal loan to buy it which 
was still outstanding. He thought Wakam should pay him £24,000.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. She pointed out that his policy only 
provided a market value settlement in the event of the vans loss. She noted that the 
independent engineer had relied on a valuation from a national trade guide initially, and that 
hed also looked at advertisements for similar vehicles before increasing the valuation. The 
investigator said the sum offered by Highway was in line with a trade guide valuation shed 
reviewed  and that the sums shed found in adverts were too variable to be reliable. Mr S 
said a decision shouldnt be made based on theory, and that in reality he couldnt find a van 
for the sum hed received. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S believes the van was insured for £24,000, but vehicles are only insured for a specific 
sum if the policy covering them is an agreed value policy. Such policies arent common, as 
theyre more expensive than standard policies and they usually cover only classic, unusual 
or investment vehicles. Mr S had a market value policy and I think the wording in it is clear. 
It says that in the event of a vehicles loss, the maximum Wakam will pay is its market value 
or its estimated value, whichever is the lower. Mr S bought the van for £20,000 and thought 
it was worth £24,000. But market value isnt based on a vehicles purchase price or on a 
consumers estimate of what their vehicle is worth.
We think the fairest way to establish what a vehicles pre-incident market value is likely to be 
is to look at the values set out in the national trade guides. Their figures are based on 
extensive research of the likely selling prices of vehicles nationwide. We dont think 
advertised prices are generally reliable, as they only show asking prices  which are usually 
variable and are also open to negotiation.  
I think it was reasonable for Wakam to ask an independent engineer to assess the market 
value of Mr Ss van. We normally give weight to the views of independent engineers, given 
their expertise and impartiality. The engineer found a trade guide valuation and also looked 
at adverts in order to reach a valuation of £16,705. Wakam later asked him to review the 
increased valuation, which I think was a reasonable course of action. The engineer told 
Wakam he was still satisfied that a higher sum wasnt justified. The investigator later 
concluded that his valuation was fair, having also looked at trade guides and adverts. 
Having reviewed all the available information I agree that the advertised prices for vans 
similar to Mr Ss vehicle arent helpful, given their variation. The ones I found varied from 
£15,495 to £27,594. Those provided by Mr S ranged from just under £19,000 to around 
£30,000. Mr S says he got a discount when he bought his van for £20,000, but theres no 
evidence that it was worth more than that at the time - and the greatly increased mileage 
over the year will have reduced the vans value. Mr S had also spent £4,000 on the van 
before it was stolen, but it seems the money went on maintenance. Unfortunately, that 
doesnt add any value to a vehicle (although not maintaining it well will lessen its value). 
I sympathise greatly with Mr S, given the difficult position in which hes found himself. In 
particular, hes had to deal with losing his van as a result of a crime, whilst still having a loan 
to pay off for the stolen property. The situation must be very stressful and frustrating for him. 
But I think Wakam acted in line with the policys terms and conditions in providing him with a 
market value sum. And I think it arrived at its final offer through a fair and reasonable 
process. So I cant uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman