DRN-4283615
The complaint and what happened
Mr E complains Revolut Ltd wont reimburse just over £42,000 that he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.  This happened in 2022, when Mr E was persuaded to use 
crypto currency to train how to trade, using his existing crypto currency account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as Revolut had declined Mr Es initial payments 
as it thought there was a fraud risk, but Mr E wasnt honest when answering the questions it 
posed. Although the investigator felt Revolut could have provided a more detailed scam 
warning, she ultimately concluded it couldnt have prevented the losses. 
Mr Es representative disagrees. Although it accepts Mr E didnt answer questions honestly, 
it says the account use of online purchases wasnt what Mr E was doing with the money, 
which Revolut ought to have known and done something about.  
Mr Es representative also asked for a copy of the chat history between Mr E and Revolut to 
ensure it was Mr E that had replied during that time and not the scammer. This was sent 
several months ago. As we havent had any submissions to the contrary, I will proceed on 
the basis that it was Mr E discussing his account with Revolut at the time it paused his initial 
payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I have read and 
considered whats been provided. Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator, and I wont be upholding the complaint for the following reasons:
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr E has been scammed. Although 
primarily from a later date, there are numerous articles online which mention this 
trading broker as being a scam. The pattern of what happened and what Mr E was 
told, both in relation to the pressure to invest and paying tax to receive any profits, 
are hallmarks of a trading scam. 
There is also no dispute that Mr E authorised the payments in questions. He made 
them using his payment details and were authorised using his security credentials. 
Whilst he didnt intend to gets scammed, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
In accordance with good industry practice, wed expect Revolut to fairly and 
reasonably be monitoring accounts to counter various risks and identify unusual 
transactions and other indicators its customers were at risk of fraud, and in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments. Indeed, that is 
action Revolut actually took with Mr E and the transactions he was making. 
The question is, did those checks go far enough, and if not, if Revolut had taken 
additional steps would that have prevented some or all of Mr Es losses? 
Mr E already had an existing crypto account which he was persuaded to use by the 
scammer to facilitate training for trading using crypto currency. He was advised to 
open an account with Revolut as he was told by the scammer that normal banks 
didnt like customers making investments. And to facilitate training and trading, the 
scammer advised Mr E to download screen sharing software. 
Mr E attempted to make an initial payment to his crypto currency account of £750. 
This was attempted and declined several times, with Revolut asking Mr E to contact it 
through its online chat function. 
Mr E was asked if hed recently downloaded any screen sharing applications, to 
which he said he had, for work. He was also asked what the nature of the account 
was, what the purpose of it was and whether someone had asked him to use one of 
the screen-sharing applications to create the account.  Mr E confirmed he was 
making online purchases and that nobody had asked him. 
Mr Es responses werent a true reflection of what he was doing, which his 
representative acknowledges. Because of the way he answered, Revolut was 
reassured about the transaction he was attempting to make  that is, it was 
reassured Mr E was purchasing crypto currency of his own volition without anyone 
elses involvement, which can be a scam indicator.
Had Mr E answered honestly, Revolut would likely have recognised the hallmarks of 
well-known scam tactics and asked more questions and could have provided a more 
meaningful scam warning or education. But Mr E didnt help Revolut to help him. 
Mr Es representative has argued that Revolut was told Mr E was making online 
purchases and so it should have recognised that wasnt true. I disagree. Mr E was 
buying crypto currency and he was doing that online, and so he was making online 
purchases. Im also aware that when opening the account, Mr E selected that he was 
going to spend and save daily. As he was spending money he had transferred in, the 
operation of the account also matched the opening reason. I therefore dont find the 
representatives arguments persuasive. 
Its at least arguable that given the pattern of spending Revolut ought to have paused 
payments a month later, due to the number of transactions in one day (5) and the 
amount sent (over £30,000).  However, Im not persuaded that would have prevented 
any further losses. Mr E had already shown a willingness to be dishonest with any 
questions Revolut asked, and its far from certain he would have had a change of 
heart about that just a month later. This is more so, given by this time, Mr E would 
have seen his trading account increase in value, and he wanted to make 
withdrawals. But even if Im wrong about that, at most Revolut could have advised 
him to carry out due diligence of the trading opportunity to satisfy himself it was 
legitimate, such as checking the FCA website. However, these were the types of 
steps Mr E had already taken. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded any further 
losses could have been prevented.  
I recognise Mr E has lost a lot of money and I do have sympathy for the situation in 
which he finds himself. But as Im not persuaded any further action from Revolut 
would have resulted in Mr E acting any differently, or uncovering the scam for 
himself, I dont find it should fairly reimburse any of his losses.     
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman