DRN-3390392
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited hasnt transferred his reward points 
and hasnt answered his correspondence about the points.
What happened
Mr H says he took out a Creation account card and earned just over 11,000 reward points. 
He says his account showed the points had been earned, but they had not been transferred 
to the account in which he could use them. Mr H says Creation told him in May 2021 it would 
answer his query but hasnt done so. He would like his points transferred and Creation fined 
for what has taken place.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator asked Creation for its final response 
letter and for its complaint file. It didnt respond and so the investigator issued his view 
without that information. The investigator upheld the complaint and recommended Creation 
transfer the points and pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr H was 
caused by the lack of communication or explanation. The investigator explained that it wasnt 
our role to fine a business.
Creation responded in part to the investigators view and provided the account terms and 
conditions about the reward points. It then told us that it had transferred the points to Mr Hs 
account on 20 April 2022 but hasnt responded to the investigators view about 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint. I appreciate 
Creation has provided a copy of the account terms and conditions about reward points, but I 
dont think it has explained their relevance to this complaint or has provided any real 
information about Mr Hs complaint.
I can see that Creation says it has transferred the reward points to Mr Hs account. If it has 
not, then I intend to order it to do so as I cant see any reason why M H wouldnt have been 
entitled to them in the absence of any explanation about them by Creation.
I have no doubt Mr H was caused distress and inconvenience in asking Creation for the 
points and or an explanation about why he hadnt received them. I can see that in May 2021 
Creation promised Mr H he would receive a response to that question shortly, but I cant see 
that it did respond as it said it would. I have no doubt Mr H was caused frustration and 
inconvenience in those circumstances. So, Im satisfied that Creation should pay Mr H £100 
compensation which I think is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the impact on Mr H and 
the length of time he was waiting for a resolution.
I appreciate Mr H would like a fine imposed on Creation but as the investigator has 
explained we are not its regulator and its not our role to punish or fine a business.
Putting things right
Creation should transfer the reward points if it hasnt done so and pay Mr H £100 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Creation Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr H £100 compensation and transfer his reward points to his account if not 
already transferred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman