DRN-3919279
The complaint
Mr D complains about carpets purchased through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK PLC trading as Novuna Personal Finance (Novuna), (formerly 
known as Hitachi Personal Finance). 
What happened
In December 2021 Mr D ordered carpets from a supplier (whom Ill call C) at the cost of 
£3,092 with a fixed sum loan with Novuna. The loan was to be repaid over 36 months. Mr D 
agreed to pay monthly instalments of £85.90.
Mr D arranged through C for a fitter to deliver and fit the carpets in April 2022. But there was 
a delay in providing all the carpet for the job. And when the carpet was all laid, Mr D was 
with the installation and said the fitters caused damage to his property. 
Unable to resolve his concerns with C, Mr D asked Novuna for help in June 2022. He said 
he was pressured into the finance agreement and was unhappy that Novuna had attempted 
to take payments before he received all the carpets. He asked Novuna to step in and liaise 
with C to get compensation on his behalf
Novuna explained C had notified it that the goods had been delivered, but it agreed to 
suspend payments on the account until August 2022 and waiver any related charges. It said 
the finance agreement only covered the supply of the carpets, so didnt think it was 
responsible for the carpet fitting issues or Cs poor customer services. It said it couldnt get 
involved with Cs refusal to pay Mr D compensation. In July 2022 Mr D made a lump sum 
payment of £2,591 to Novuna, he told it he was withholding the remaining £500 balance as 
compensation for the issues hed had with C. He was unhappy Novuna was sending him 
arrears letters.
In response Novuna said it couldnt force C to pay Mr D compensation, it said it understood 
Mr D wanted to secure the best price but didnt think this meant he was pressured into the 
finance agreement. It signposted Mr D to an arbitration service to resolve his dispute with C. 
It explained that in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules it was required to 
send Mr D arrears letters, as even though hed partially settled his account, he was required 
to still make the remaining monthly payments. Novuna accepted it could have been clearer 
in its communications with Mr D, it credited £50 compensation to his account to reflect this.
 
Mr D remained dissatisfied; he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think there was any evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by C in 
respect of the contract to supply the carpets. He said Novuna couldnt be held responsible 
for the fitting issues, the subsequent damage caused by the fitters, or the customer service 
issues experienced with C, as the finance agreement was only for the supply of the carpets, 
not the installation. He didnt think Novuna made a mistake with the payment start date, 
which was in line with the agreement and didnt think it was in error for sending the required 
arrears letters.
Mr D disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant legislation for Mr Ds claim is section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA)1974. The general effect of section 75 is that if a consumer has paid for goods with a 
credit agreement, such as a fixed sum loan, and they have a claim against the supplier of 
those goods for misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against 
the credit provider which here is Novuna. My role is to consider whether Novuna has acted 
fairly and reasonably in its response to Mr Ds claim under section 75. 
Carpet fitting issues and Cs level of customer service
Mr D had several issues with delays in fitting the carpet, poor installation of the carpet and 
the fitters causing damage to his property. However, the fixed sum loan agreement entered 
by Mr D was only for the supply of the carpets, it didnt include the fitting service. And whilst I 
sympathise with the problems experienced, Im unable to hold Novuna responsible for any of 
the issues arising from the installation of the carpets. And Ive not seen any evidence to 
indicate there was any issues with the quality of the carpets so, I dont think there was a 
breach of contract here.
 
Mr D is unhappy with Cs level of customer services and the way it handled his concerns. 
However, Im unable to hold Novuna responsible for Cs level of customer services. Mr D 
says Novuna should have done more to negotiate with C on his behalf in respect of his 
compensation request. But Novuna was under no obligation to do this, and I can see it 
passed on his request for compensation to C and signposted him to an arbitration service. 
So, I dont think it made a mistake when it said it couldnt compensate Mr D for Cs customer 
services or liaise on his behalf. 
Was Mr D pressured into taking out the finance agreement?
 
Mr D says that he entered the fixed sum loan agreement under duress. He explained that he 
wanted to buy the carpets with his credit card a week later, but the salesperson refused to 
hold the quoted price, and pressurised him into taking out the finance agreement. 
Section 56 CCA is relevant here. In broad terms this means Novuna can be held responsible 
for things C did or said during the sales process. Mr D says he felt pressured to take out the 
finance agreement. And whilst I can understand that he was keen to secure the price 
quoted, I think it was ultimately his choice to decide whether to enter the finance agreement 
with Novuna. Mr D signed the agreement and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest he tried 
to cancel it within the 14 days cancellation period. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
that Mr D was under duress or unfairly pressured into entering the agreement with Novuna.
Payment start dateMr D says there was a delay in getting the carpets supplied/fitted and Novuna should not 
have begun taking any payments until hed received 99% of the carpets. Ive not seen 
anything to confirm that 99% of the goods needed to be supplied before payments begun but 
I can see that Mr Ds agreement says payments will begin within one month of the 
agreement date or if later, when the goods were supplied. Novuna received notification from 
C that the goods were supplied, and I can see it sent a welcome letter outlining it would be 
commencing payments on 5 June 2022.
Mr D cancelled his direct debit and let Novuna know that he hadnt received all the carpet. 
Novuna agreed to put the account on hold until 5 August 2022 to allow for the rest of the 
carpet to be delivered/installed. I appreciate Mr D was frustrated by this, but I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it to commence payments in line with the agreement, following Cs 
notice. Once Novuna was aware of the issues, it agreed to put the account on hold, and I 
think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont think Novuna needs to do 
anything else in respect of this part of the complaint.
 
Arrears letters  
Mr D made a lump sum payment on his account in July 2022 and informed Novuna he would 
not be making any further payments towards the remaining £500 balance, as he felt this was 
compensation for the issues hed had with C. He is unhappy that Novuna continued to send 
him arrears letters, when he didnt believe he was in arrears because the lump sum payment 
was equal to nearly three years of instalments.
The finance agreement signed by Mr D says under the early settlement section that even if 
he partially settled his account his monthly payments would remain the same until the loan 
was settled. So, whilst I can understand why Mr D thinks he isnt in arrears, Novuna is 
required in line with the FCA guidance to send him prescribed arrears letters whenever 
monthly payments arent paid. So, I dont think Novuna has done anything wrong here and I 
think it is entitled to ask Mr D to pay the remaining monthly instalments.
Novunas customer services
Novuna accepts that it could have been clearer with Mr D in its communications. It agreed to 
apply £50 compensation to Mr Ds account to reflect this. In the circumstances, I think this is 
fair and I dont require Novuna to do anything further with respect to Mr Ds complaint. 
 
I know my decision will be disappointing, but Im not persuaded there is any evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by C in respect of the contract to supply the carpets, 
in the circumstances, I dont think Novunas decision to decline Mr Ds section 75 claim was 
unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman