The complaint
Mr L is a director of a business that Ill refer to as P. He complained on Ps behalf that Lloyds 
Bank PLC acted unfairly by closing Ps account without informing them.
What happened
Mr L and his fellow directors opened a bank account for P, their new business, in late 
September 2018. 
They first realised there was an issue in August 2019 when a now former director of the 
company, Mrs B, was unable to access Ps online account. She contacted Lloyds, who 
confirmed that the business account had been closed. 
The directors of P visited a branch of Lloyds who confirmed that the account had been 
closed due to a discrepancy with one of the directors date of birth on their files. Lloyds were 
unable to reopen the account and the directors were advised that they would need to apply 
for a new account. The directors asked for a complaint to be logged.
Lloyds said in their final response letter that they left voicemail messages for the affected 
director in September 2018 and again in March 2019. They also wrote to P about the issue 
on three separate occasions in September and October 2018 and May 2019. Further to this, 
Lloyds said they left voicemails for the primary account holder, Mr L, in April 2019 and 
August 2019. Lloyds said they made sufficient attempts to contact the directors and they 
were satisfied that the account was closed correctly on 20 August 2019.
The directors were unhappy with the banks response and brought the complaint to us. They 
told us that the closure was completely unexpected and that they had not received any 
written or verbal correspondence from Lloyds in advance of the account being closed. They 
told us they couldnt receive payments they were expecting nor were they able to pay their 
staffs wages, so they had to borrow money from a friend.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had acted fairly and asked Lloyds to pay £250 to P 
for the inconvenience caused. Lloyds agreed, however the directors didnt think this amount 
was enough to compensate for the stress and potential hardship Lloyds actions might have 
caused. They said their business would have gone under if Mrs B had not called Lloyds to 
find out why she couldnt access the online account. So, they asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
DRN-1778400What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have an obligation to ensure that the information they hold on file about their 
customers is accurate. They realised there was a discrepancy with one of the directors 
information shortly after the account for P was opened. They said they attempted to contact 
the directors at the time by phone and by post without success. 
Lloyds said they left voicemail messages for the affected director in September 2018 and 
again in March 2019 and they also left voicemail messages for the primary account holder, 
Mr L, in April 2019 and August 2019. 
However, the phone numbers Lloyds used had been incorrectly recorded on Ps file so they 
would have never been able to reach them by these means. On balance this was most likely 
down to bank error as nobody at P recognised the numbers Lloyds had recorded for either 
director they tried to contact. So, the directors of P could never have received the voicemails 
that were left for them. 
Lloyds wrote to P on the 21 September 2018 and again on the 15 October 2018. They also 
sent a letter to P in May 2019 informing P that they were going to close the account in 
August as they had not received the information they required. 
While I appreciate that P says it didnt receive any of these letters, Lloyds internal system 
notes show that the letters were all correctly addressed and issued. So, I think its unlikely 
that none of the letters arrived  especially as there is evidence that P was receiving other 
letters from Lloyds around this time. 
Lloyds have been unable to provide a copy of the notice of closure letter to P, but I am 
satisfied from what I have seen recorded on Lloyds system that the letter was correctly 
addressed and sent to P. So, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the letter not reaching its 
destination.
Lloyds had another opportunity to discuss the closure of the account with the directors in 
May 2019 as P had a separate complaint with them. I would have expected someone from 
Lloyds to have discussed the imminent closure of the account with P during that 
investigation, but this did not happen.
I can therefore understand the directors frustration about the account being closed. 
Nonetheless, I dont think the account was wrongly closed as I can see that Lloyds followed 
their internal processes before closing the account. They tried to contact P on numerous 
occasions when they realised some of the information held on their file was wrong. And as 
they didnt hear anything back from P, they followed their process to close the account. 
Although I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to close the account, the telephone 
numbers they used were incorrect, there was a six-month period between the issue being 
identified and it being following up, and they missed an opportunity to raise the issue with the 
directors while looking into another complaint for P. So, I think Lloyds could have done more 
to ensure P was aware of the impending closure of the account.  
 
 The directors told us that the business wouldve gone under if they had not realised the 
account had been closed when Mrs B was unable to access Ps online account. P have also 
told us that they would not have been able to pay their staff and supply staff to care homes 
that depended on them if it were not for a friend who loaned them money. They also said this 
could have caused them reputational damage. Although these are all very serious potential 
problems, they were all fortunately mitigated by the action the directors took and I cant 
award compensation for something that didnt happen.
Lloyds told P that they could not reopen the account and they would need to reapply for a 
new account. P told us that this caused them considerable inconvenience and that they were 
diverted from other activities whilst they tried to sort out the situation. 
I recognise the impact the inconvenience having to open a new account would have caused 
the directors, including having to contact their staff and suppliers to update their details and 
rearrange all their direct debits. In addition, I recognise the inconvenience of having to make 
alternative arrangements while their account was closed. It is for this inconvenience that I 
think Lloyds should compensate P and I am satisfied that £250 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay £250 
compensation to P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L, on behalf 
of P, to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman