DRN-1575708
 
The complaint
Mrs F says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs F bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as she took out a store card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think I can safely say that 
AXA gave her choice about taking the cover, or that Mrs F agreed to take it. 
I say this because the copy of Mrs F's store card application form is illegible, other than for 
her own details. AXA hasn't been able to provide a sample application form either.
I accept that Mrs F's signature is shown in two places on the form. But it's possible there 
were other forms of cover available for the store card, in addition to the PPI. So in the 
absence of any other evidence, I don't think I can fairly or reasonably say that one of Mrs 
F's signatures showed her agreement to take the PPI.
AXA says Mrs F would've received confirmation of the policy details after she took it out, and 
could've cancelled it if she didn't want it. But I haven't seen any evidence to support what 
AXA has told me. So this point doesn't change my overall conclusions about the case. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs F in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.  AXA should find out how much Mrs F would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs F owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
B.  AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs F would have owed 
when she closed her account - from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.  If  when AXA works out what Mrs F would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs F paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs F wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.  AXA should tell Mrs F what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mrs F in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman