DRN-2168835
The complaint
Mrs B, represented by Mr B, is unhappy with the service she received under her European 
Breakdown Cover when their car broke down in Europe. She says her car was damaged by 
either the garage or the recovery agent. As the policy was underwritten by Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) her complaint is against them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs car broke down while they were on holiday in Spain. As it couldnt be 
repaired at the roadside it was towed to a local garage for diagnostics, and later recovered to 
the UK.
When the car arrived back in the UK Mr B noticed that the cars front grill had been 
damaged, and the rear bumper had a dent in it.
After the involvement of an independent engineer, Acromas agreed to pay for repairs to the 
front of the car. But they declined to do anything about the rear bumper. They said that 
damage had been present before the car was recovered from the garage. Acromas said they 
had no liability for any damaged caused, whilst the vehicle was in the care and custody of 
the overseas garage.
Mr B showed us a video hed taken of the car being dropped off at the garage and said the 
rear bumper dent wasnt there at that point. He said he had no choice about where the car 
was towed after it had broken down and so whether the dent happened at the garage or 
during recovery to the UK, Acromas should pay to repair it.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He said its likely the damage was caused 
at some point after the car was towed to the garage but before it was collected by the 
recovery agent. But he didnt think it would be fair to hold Acromas responsible for what 
happened at the garage.
He said this because the main purpose of the cover was to provide roadside assistance or 
recover the vehicle back to the UK, and the garage wasnt appointed by Acromas to provide 
either of those services. In other words, the garage in this instance, wasnt acting as an 
agent of Acromas.
Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to look at everything again. Mr B said that they didnt have 
any say in which garage the car was towed to. And as the roadside assistance provider 
couldnt do the diagnostics for their make of car, They just loaded the car on to the lorry and 
drove to the  garage. On this basis he thought Acromas should be liable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
For broadly the same reasons as the investigator gave, I think its more likely than not the 
damage to the rear of the car happened after it arrived at the Spanish garage and before it 
was collected for recovery back to the UK. Mr Bs video and the photographic evidence 
provided by both sides support this. So, Ive thought about whether Acromas should be liable 
for damage caused while the car was with the garage.
The terms and conditions booklet for Mrs Bs policy included the following notice in the 
introduction:
Please note: Any services that may be arranged for you under this policy are 
delivered by third party service providers including, but not limited to, garages, 
repairers, recovery operators, patrols of motoring organisations and car hire 
companies. These third party service providers are not the agents of, nor are 
approved by,  Acromas Insurance Company Limited. Neither  nor Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited is liable for the acts or omissions of such service 
suppliers.
Whilst it might not be fair for Acromas to rely on this notice in every case, in this instance I 
think they can. I say this because the cover Mrs B bought included roadside assistance and 
emergency repair in Europe, and vehicle recovery to the UK, and the garage wasnt involved 
in either of those activities.
I think that Acromas provided cover in line with the policy terms by arranging roadside 
assistance and, when the car couldnt be repaired at the roadside, towing it to a garage. 
Acromas also provided the cover Mrs B had bought by recovering the car to the UK. But 
whilst the car was with the garage it wasnt Acromass responsibility. So, I cant say they 
should be liable to put right any damage caused there.
Overall, I think the garage were acting in a capacity independent of Mrs Bs contract of 
insurance with Acromas. So, I dont think Acromas have done anything wrong by declining to 
put right damage that was more likely than not caused by the garage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman