DRN-2876821
The complaint
Mr F complains that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has turned down a 
claim he made on his personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Fs son suffered an accident and underwent ankle surgery, which CIGNA covered. Mr Fs 
son required ongoing physiotherapy treatment, which CIGNA paid for. However, Mr F made 
a further claim for physiotherapy costs and at this point, CIGNA let him know that these 
costs werent covered. Thats because Mr Fs son was receiving physiotherapy treatment on 
an outpatient basis. Mr F hadnt added optional outpatient cover to his policy. However, 
CIGNA agreed to continue to cover Mr Fs sons physiotherapy costs up until 23 December 
2019, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr F was unhappy with CIGNAs decision, as he said it had previously agreed to cover the 
treatment costs. And he said hed committed to the course of treatment based on CIGNAs 
agreement to cover his sons physiotherapy costs. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that CIGNA wouldnt pay for outpatient treatment if a policyholder hadnt added 
the optional outpatient cover to their policy. She acknowledged CIGNA had made an error by 
initially telling Mr F that his sons physiotherapy costs would be covered. But she felt it had 
made it clear to him that it wouldnt cover any further costs after 23 December 2019. So she 
didnt think it needed to pay for any physiotherapy costs after that date.
Mr F disagreed. Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He said the 
physiotherapy was a follow-up to his sons inpatient and outpatient surgeries, which had 
been required by his treating doctor. He felt that CIGNA had committed to covering these 
costs. He said he couldve come up with alternative cover or treatment if hed been given the 
right information. He couldnt stop his sons treatment once itd begun.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think CIGNA has treated Mr F fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether 
CIGNA handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with CIGNA. Ive also looked closely at Mr Fs policy schedule. Its clear that 
International Outpatient cover is an optional add-on to the core policy benefits. This section 
of the policy says: 
International Outpatient covers you more comprehensively for outpatient care and medical 
emergencies that may arise where a hospital admission as a daypatient or inpatient is not 
required. As well as this, consultations with specialists and medical practitioners, prescribed 
outpatient drugs and dressings, pre-natal and post-natal outpatient care, physiotherapy, 
osteopathy, chiropractic and much more. (Bold is my emphasis).
Mr Fs policy schedule shows that he didnt select International Outpatient cover or pay the 
additional premium for this add-on. This means he isnt covered under this section of the 
policy. And Ive also noted that the General Exclusions section of the policy says:
If a beneficiary does not have cover under the International Outpatientoptions, we will not 
pay for any of the treatments or other benefits which are available under those options.
CIGNAs also defined what it means by outpatient cover. The policy states: a patient who 
attends a hospital, consulting room, or outpatient clinic for treatment and is not admitted as a 
daypatient or an inpatient.
Mr F accepts that his sons physiotherapy treatment is carried out on an outpatient basis. He 
visits the hospital for physiotherapy sessions. So its clear that the ongoing physiotherapy 
treatment simply isnt covered by the terms of Mr Fs contract with CIGNA.
Theres no dispute that CIGNA initially covered Mr Fs sons surgery and initial rehabilitation. 
Ive also seen that it paid for some of the physiotherapy sessions his son underwent, despite 
the fact this treatment wasnt covered. But I dont think this means that CIGNA is bound to 
continue to pay for treatment. When CIGNA discovered its mistake, it agreed to cover Mr Fs 
sons physiotherapy sessions up until 23 December 2019 as a gesture of goodwill. 
I think CIGNA made it very clear that it wouldnt be covering any further sessions after that 
point. This means I think Mr F was put on notice that any further physiotherapy costs 
wouldnt be covered and that he would be responsible for meeting these costs himself. At 
this point then, although I can understand why Mr F may have wanted his son to continue 
with the treatment he was already undergoing; I think he was aware that if he did so, then 
hed need to pay for the treatment himself. I havent seen enough to persuade me that 
CIGNA agreed to cover all physiotherapy costs and treatment costs, for the duration of the 
treatment, despite the fact that Mr F didnt have the relevant cover.
Overall, I think CIGNA acted reasonably when it discovered itd been covering Mr Fs sons 
treatment in error. It wasnt obliged to continue meeting these costs up until 23 December 
2019 and I think this was more than enough to recognise itd made a mistake earlier in the 
claim. I also dont think its bound to pay anything more under this section of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman