DRN-1937680
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest. 
It covered Mr S, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds a provisional decision on 1 June 2020, to explain why I didnt 
plan to award any further compensation. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application offered them the choice to take PPI or turn it down. 
The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr and Mrs S 
signed the form to confirm their choices. They also signed and submitted a separate 
application specifically for PPI, as well as setting up a direct debit to pay for it  the policy 
was not part and parcel of the lending. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales 
process from the time, nor any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S were misled here. So 
I think its most likely that Lloyds made it clear Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out PPI, and 
that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer remember 
doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check that the policy was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mr S was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr S did take out an income protection plan with Lloyds as well, but this appears to have 
been after he took out the PPI, so its not clear whether the other policy is relevant here. In 
any case, the income protection plan only covered a fraction of Mr Ss income, so the PPI 
wouldve helped shore up the gaps in his cover. And Ive not seen any indication that he 
couldnt claim on both policies at the same time if needs be. Further, Mr S didnt have any 
other protection aside from the very limited statutory benefits. And its worth bearing in mind 
that if Mr and Mrs S fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it looks 
like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the policy, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like Mr S was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs S in case something went wrong. The PPI was competitively priced given how 
much it would pay out in a claim. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs S 
could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about 
the PPI was likely to have put them off taking it out. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I currently think that is fair in this case.
 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
29 June 2020. But neither Mr and Mrs S nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done that, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman