DRN-3684471
The complaint
Ms G complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt done enough to help her try to recover the cost of a 
flight she couldnt board because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In December 2020 Ms G bought flights to Portugal and back with separate airlines, flying out 
that same month and returning in January 2021. Ms Gs complaint concerns the return flight 
from Portugal to the UK. Ms G bought this from a supplier I shall call R at a cost of around 
£105 using her Revolut debit card.
Because of subsequent restrictions on travelling introduced by both the UK and Portuguese 
Governments in response to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Ms G was unable to take her 
flight to Portugal. This of course meant that she did not board her flight home.
Ms G spoke to Revolut and asked it to help her get a refund. Revolut told her it couldnt help 
and mistakenly referred her to an insurer it had ties with to see if she could claim via them. 
Ms G complained to Revolut about this.  It maintained its position that it couldnt help Ms G 
get her money back. 
Our investigator said Revolut could have done more to help Ms G by explaining things to her 
better once she asked for help with a refund. But he didnt think this had caused Ms G to 
suffer a financial loss as a chargeback claim appeared destined to fail and that was the only 
way Revolut could have got Ms Gs money back. He thought Revolut should pay Ms G 
compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her by not explaining 
things properly. 
Revolut accepted the investigators assessment. Ms G did not and asked an ombudsman to 
review her complaint. In summary she said its not fair that she lost out through no fault of 
her own because of government restrictions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned. In the early days of the pandemic, it seems there were some poor 
practices by some suppliers, who were not refunding customers when they should have. 
In many instances, where the supplier hadnt refunded the cost of a service that didnt go 
ahead, customers could look to their bank for a refund and commonly the banks refunded 
customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate. 
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It depends on the individual circumstances of each case and the 
legal position, which can be complicated. For example, if a service can legally go ahead in 
another country but a consumer is prevented from accessing it because of government 
guidance in place at the time, then the entitlement to a refund from the supplier is far from 
clear. 
Here, Ive looked at the actions of the bank and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way it handled Ms Gs request for help in getting her money back. This takes into account 
the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier acted, but there are also other 
considerations at play, such as the chargeback scheme rules a bank has to follow and its 
own obligations.
Where a consumer has paid for something on a debit card and seeks a refund, a bank can 
try to recover the money from the supplier through a process known as chargeback. While it 
is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate for 
the bank to raise or further pursue a chargeback. There are grounds/dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
Revolut didnt raise a chargeback for Ms G. It says this was because she didnt ask it to. But 
Ms G had been clear in her communications with Revolut in March 2021 that she was 
seeking a refund of a flight shed been unable to board. So Revolut should have offered 
better advice to Ms G, like explaining for example why it didnt think there were valid grounds 
to raise a chargeback. 
However, even if Revolut had raised a chargeback, it looked unlikely to succeed. The facts 
of Ms Gs case did not fit with the card scheme dispute conditions for where services had not 
been provided.  
This dispute ground had specific criteria which only resulted in a refund to Ms G if the 
service wasnt provided, rather than, for example Ms G not being able to board the flight 
because of Government restrictions  as set out in the guidance to the rules published by 
the card scheme.  
Ive not seen persuasive evidence the flight did not go ahead. It appears more likely Ms G 
was simply unable to board it because of restrictions which had prevented her from getting 
to Portugal in the first place. 
Another dispute condition that might have been relevant is where a refund hasnt been 
provided in accordance with a suppliers cancellation or no-show policy. However, having 
looked at Rs terms and conditions, no refund was due in the event Ms G did not board her 
flight in this case. 
I know Ms G asked Revolut to look at her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). This may have involved some different considerations to chargeback. But 
Section 75 does not apply to transactions paid for solely with a debit card. So Revolut 
couldnt have looked at Ms Gs claim for a refund in this way. 
I sympathise with Ms G that she was unable to board her flight through no fault of her own  
especially seeing as the restrictions on travel to Portugal werent announced until after she 
booked her trip. However, having considered the chargeback scheme rules and guidance, 
the circumstances of Ms Gs complaint, and the extent of Revoluts obligations to Ms G in 
this case, its actions havent caused her to suffer a financial loss. 
As Ive said however Revolut could have handled Ms Gs request for a refund better 
because it didnt explain why a chargeback was unlikely to succeed. And it tried to push her 
towards an insurer she had no connection with. Ms G suffered inconvenience as a result of this. The investigator recommended 
compensation of £50 which I find to be fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint in 
part. To put thigs right Revolut Ltd must pay Ms G compensation of £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman