DRN-3530085
The complaint
Mr G complains about the transfer of his Stocks and Shares ISA from King & Shaxson Asset
Management Limited (referred to as the transferor or the business), to a cash ISA with a
new provider (referred to as the transferee) in October 2018.
What happened
In early May 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
provisionally, Im going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the transferor says, I dont think it
behaved reasonably. In other words, Im persuaded that it was responsible for the delays
between October 2018 and January 2019 which resulted in financial loss to Mr G.
I note the business concedes that: Ultimately, the delay came down to a miscommunication
between the fund management department and the central services departments within our
firm.
I also note that on 4 January 2019  subsequent to a follow up from the IFA  the business
instructed the transfer of Mr Gs portfolio. Its not clear why it needed prompting or why it 
took so long when it had already encashed Mr Gs holdings a week or two before Mrs Gs 
holdings. I note the valuation was subsequently sent on 8 January 2019.
On balance, I note that had the business not delayed matters, the transfer was more likely
(than not) to have completed by 12 December 2018, enabling Mr G to invest his money
sooner.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the redress recommended by the
investigator is reasonable. I note in her latest view she said:
But as a result of that initial delay, he wasn't able to invest the funds as he wanted to. The
evidence he's provided confirms if the transfer had been completed by 12 December 2018 -
which was when his wife's portfolio was - the value of the funds would have been worth
£91,558.81. But by the time the transfer was completed, the value of his portfolio was
£88,244.61 so it's clear there's been a financial loss.
 I still think King and Shaxson need to put Mr G (name anonymised) back into the position
he would have been in if the initial delay hadn't happened. As the financial loss has been
calculated as £3,318, I think this is what King and Shaxson should pay to Mr G, along with
the £150 gesture of goodwill payment.
Whilst I cant say that the figure is incorrect, it may not be as suggested by Mr Gs IFA and
the actual figure could higher or lower. So, in the circumstances, I think the business should
compare the value of Mr Gs portfolio on the date of investment which I believe is 14
February 2019, with what the value wouldve been if he had invested on 12 December 2018.
If theres a difference  as there appears to be according to Mr Gs IFA  the transferor
should pay that loss.
Like the investigator, in the circumstances, Im not minded to award an amount for interest to
the amount that is payable. Whilst there are several ways to calculate redress, it seems to
me that Mr G is content to receive the difference in cash.
In this instance, I think 12 December 2018 is a reasonable date for completion of the
transfer. Whilst I appreciate that theres nothing to say that the transfer had to complete by
this date (the same date as Mrs Gs transfer) I still think its a reasonable comparator.
Im aware that Mrs Gs (similar) transfer request was received on the same date but based
on a call note it seems hers was chased up, when Mr Gs wasnt. Its possible that there was
some confusion about which request had been chased/progressed, but whether (or not)
there was confusion thats not Mr Gs fault. In any case, in respect of the redress originally
suggested by the investigator - based on the business paying lost interest - it appears to
broadly accept the relevant dates in question.
Based on the letter provided by Mr G and his subsequent actions, Im satisfied that he
intended to invest his money at the time, therefore I dont think the loss of interest payment
following the sale of his portfolio would provide reasonable redress in the circumstances. In
other words, it doesnt put Mr G in the position, or close to the position, he wouldve been in
but for the delays.
I also dont think the business offer to pay half the loss contingent upon the transferee
accepting equal blame is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. Im mindful that a separate
complaint against the transferee has been considered and upheld on a separate basis. I
note the transferee was ordered to pay £150 compensation.
Despite my decision to uphold this complaint I acknowledge that the business acted in
accordance with Mr Gs instructions to sell his portfolio, and by doing so prevented Mr G
from being subject to any changes in the market so far as his cash was involved. I dont think
theres any criticism of the business in that respect. However, this doesnt excuse or justify
the delay in carrying out Mr Gs instructions to transfer that resulted in financial loss to him.
In the circumstances the business isnt responsible for the increase in share prices. I
acknowledge the value is dependent on the stockmarket, and it seems Mr G accepts that its
not something that the business can predict or control. However, I think the business is
responsible for Mr G not receiving the additional shares that he couldve bought if the
transfer had completed on12 December 2018, or the equivalent value.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr G responded and said that he feels all the salient points have been addressed, and 
consequently he had no further points to make. 
The business also responded but didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary, it made 
the following points:
1. It hasnt seen a copy of Mr Gs portfolio so is unable to compare the values. 
2. It doesnt understand why its being blamed for the delay. Mr Gs own view was that 
there was failure on both sides. 
3. Its understanding is that the transferees normal transfer time is roughly three weeks. 
The transferee shouldve been able to invest as of 25 January 2019 at which point 
the FTSE 100 was lower than it was on December 2018, so there wouldve still been an opportunity for Mr G to take advantage of the market upturn. 
4. Mr Gs complaint email references a letter sent by the transferee on 10 January 
2019, but it hasnt seen a copy. It wonders if theres any proof of delivery (recorded 
or otherwise).  It wanted to see if there was a reason why it didnt receive the letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate what the business says about the transferee, but in this case Im only 
considering the actions of the business  whether, or not, the business has made a mistake. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that it caused a delay and is therefore is responsible for 
financial loss as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, nothing that the business has said has persuaded me to change my decision 
that it was responsible for the delays between October 2018 and January 2019 which 
resulted in financial loss to Mr G.
I dont think what Mr G thought about who is to blame stops me from making a finding 
against the business. I still dont think the business offer to pay half the loss contingent upon 
the transferee accepting equal blame is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. Im mindful 
that a separate complaint against the transferee has been considered and upheld on a 
separate basis. 
Furthermore, Mr Gs actions (or lack thereof) dont take away from the business error. On 
balance, I still think had the business not delayed matters, the transfer was more likely (than 
not) to have completed by 12 December 2018, enabling Mr G to invest his money sooner.
On the face of the evidence and on balance, I think the redress methodology proposed by 
me, which the business hasnt made any specific comments on, is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, I still think 12 December 2018 is a reasonable date for 
completion of the transfer. Whilst I appreciate that theres nothing to say that the transfer had 
to complete by this date (the same date as Mrs Gs transfer) I still think its reasonable to use 
this date in the circumstances. 
As I said in my provisional decision, in the circumstances the business isnt responsible for 
the increase in share prices. I acknowledge the value is dependent on the stockmarket, and 
it seems Mr G accepts that its not something that the business can predict or control. 
However, I think the business is responsible for Mr G not receiving the additional shares that 
he couldve bought if the transfer had completed on12 December 2018, or the equivalent 
value.
I appreciate that the business would like a copy of the letter referred to by Mr G. Perhaps Mr 
G (or the transferee) if asked can assist in that regard. But that doesnt stop me from making 
a final decision. Im mindful that the business previously accepted the investigators decision 
to uphold this complaint.Putting things right
King & Shaxson Asset Management Limited should calculate and pay redress as set out
below:
Compare the value of Mr Gs portfolio on the date of investment (14 February 2019)
with the value he wouldve received on 12 December 2018. If theres a difference,
pay the loss.
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this compliant.  
King & Shaxson Asset Management Limited should calculate and pay redress as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman