DRN-3221723
The complaint
Mrs W complains that ReAssure UK Services Limited (ReAssure) will not allow her to 
cash in her annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs W had an Additional Voluntary Contributions plan (AVC) with ReAssure. Shes told us around 
2012/2013, she enquired about taking her benefits under the policy. ReAssure sent her the 
relevant forms and Mrs W chose to take tax-free cash of approximately £700 and an annuity of 
just £7.24 paid annually.
More recently, Mrs W asked ReAssure if she could cash in her annuity. ReAssure said legislation 
did allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its discretion. And whilst in 
the past it on occasion made offers in exceptional circumstances, it had now made a business 
decision to no longer do so. It also said that its costs were worked out when the annuity started 
based on paying it for Mrs Ws lifetime. If it were to make an offer now it would have to make a lot 
of assumptions and this could work against Mrs W.
Mrs W was unhappy with this. Shes explained that often HMRC quote the wrong figures on this 
annuity and she has to sort it out. And it can interfere with her tax code and she has to reclaim the 
tax.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that scheme 
if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mrs Ws position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
Relevant considerations
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means, in essence, that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However, Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does ReAssure have discretion to commute Mrs Ws annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mrs W the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is ReAssure the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If ReAssure is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mrs Ws best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If ReAssure was free to grant Mrs Ws request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for ReAssure to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
ReAssure hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow 
Mrs W to cash-in the annuity. So, I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mrs W to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mrs Ws told us and 
the value of her annuity, which is paying her just under £8 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is so 
small it doesnt provide any meaningful income on which she relies. I accept her position that 
shed benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if small. I also note that Mrs W says that the 
annuity causes her issues with HMRC. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value 
(which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mrs Ws 
personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether ReAssure fairly took into account Mrs Ws 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow her to cash-in her annuity.
ReAssure has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mrs W, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all its 
qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good.-To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant 
groundwork to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be 
considered on its customers and its business)
-Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing in offers.
-There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
-Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think ReAssures points here are fair ones. I dont think 
ReAssure simply disregarded Mrs Ws interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that ReAssure could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Mrs Ws case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of ReAssure. However, I acknowledge ReAssures difficulty here. Im not persuaded there 
is reason in Mrs Ws case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mrs W would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Mrs W had a right to. And while ReAssure was free to allow her request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on ReAssures existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mrs Ws request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs W in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future ReAssure changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible 
Mrs W may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say ReAssure must change its position 
at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Mrs W is understandably disappointed with my decision. Shes told us the tax-free cash she 
received wasnt £700 but instead around £200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has clarified the tax free cash figure she received but this doesnt have any bearing 
on my decision about the cashing in of the annuity. Im afraid for the reasons explained in 
the provisional decision, I wont be telling ReAssure that it needs to allow the annuity to be 
cashed in.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mrs Ws 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs W in line with other 
customers.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman