DRN-3495972
The complaint
Mr H complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was tricked 
into paying for an item he did not receive.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr H was the victim of a scam after he made a 
faster payment of £50 when he was attempting to purchase a second-hand mobile phone. 
Mr H had seen the phone advertised for sale on a popular social media platform and 
contacted the seller to obtain more information about it. Mr H says he didnt see anything to 
concern him about the sellers social media profile, and he says he also searched their name 
on the wider internet without turning up anything of concern. The seller had posted pictures 
of the item including the serial number and box.
The seller asked for payment through bank transfer. She explained she didnt have an 
alternate payment method and always used bank transfer. Mr H asked some questions 
about the item, which the seller answered to Mr Hs satisfaction. They agreed a price of £50 
to include delivery. Mr H then sent the payment via his mobile app.
Mr H didnt receive a tracking number and when he chased the seller she stopped 
responding and blocked further contact. Mr H realised hed been the victim of a scam and 
contacted Monzo to report it.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more 
of those exceptions to reimbursement applies in this case. It said Mr H made the payment 
without having a reasonable basis for believing he was paying for a genuine item from a 
legitimate seller.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Mr Hs claim under the CRM 
Code. He didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish Mr H made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a 
legitimate seller. The investigator thought that the steps Mr H had taken to verify the 
legitimacy of the seller and item were reasonable in the circumstances.
Monzo didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary it said:
- Mr H had made the payment before receiving any parcel tracking information or 
providing his address details to the seller;
- The explanation the seller gave for using bank transfer wasnt particularly compelling;
- It didnt think the social media profile of the seller could be relied on to indicate the 
seller was genuine;
- The advert and photos didnt prove the sellers identity or ownership of the item; 
- This had not been a sophisticated scam; and,
- While it agreed there was little more Mr H could have done to verify the seller or item 
buying through an online marketplace, that simply meant he should have decided not 
to proceed. Mr H shouldnt have purchased an item without being able to see it in 
person first.
In light of this disagreement I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of 
Mr Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr H 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr H 
lost.
The money was sent from Mr Hs current account. It is not clear how Mr H would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if 
Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr H would 
not have been deprived of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay interest 
at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should be calculated from the date 
Monzo first declined to refund Mr H until the date of settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr H made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate seller for a legitimate item. Ill explain 
briefly why Ive reached this finding.
I know Monzo considers this was not a sophisticated scam. I agree. And I accept Monzos 
point that anyone can post an advert for an item, so an advert or photos of an item are no 
guarantee that a seller is legitimate. Neither is a social media profile robust proof of identity 
or trustworthiness.
But I dont think it follows that no-one should ever purchase an item online without seeing it 
in person first. Nor do I agree it follows that anyone who buys an item online before seeing 
first it automatically made their payment without the reasonable basis for belief required by 
the CRM Code. Any online purchase requires a degree of trust, and most such purchases 
cannot provide complete certainty, but the code does not require absolute certainty.
The relevant test under the CRM Code can be summarised as being whether the bank can 
establish the customer in all the circumstances made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction was legitimate. 
Further, while the degree of sophistication of a scam may make it harder for a consumer to 
spot that they are being deceived, I do not find that the CRM Code requires a scam to be 
sophisticated in order for reimbursement to be the fair answer. Nor does it exclude 
reimbursement in all but the most sophisticated scam situations. Rather, the question I must 
consider is whether Monzo has established that in all the circumstances at the time Mr H 
made with the payment without a reasonable basis for belief in the transactions legitimacy. Having considered all the circumstances here, I am satisfied that the steps and evidence 
Mr H sought to rely on were proportionate to the purchase he was undertaking. 
While the sellers explanation about the choice of payment method was simply that she 
didnt have an e-money account, and typically used bank transfer, I dont find anything 
particularly implausible about this reason. Monzo argues that Mr H should have queried it 
further. But in such a circumstance it is hard to see what alternatives were open to Mr H to 
propose. Id not expect a private seller to be in a position to accept card payments instead, 
and of course, had he been collecting the item in person, he could have paid in cash, but the 
lack of proximity made this impractical.
In saying that, regardless of whether alternative methods of payment were or werent 
possible, Monzos argument is that Mr H could have simply chosen not to go ahead. Had 
there been grounds for Mr H to be concerned that the seller might not be genuine, Id agree 
that would have been the reasonable course of action for him to take. But in the absence of 
such grounds, I am not persuaded that the choice of payment method in itself established 
that Mr H could not have reasonably thought the seller legitimate. So, Ive considered the 
other circumstances surrounding the payment.
I think it relevant that the price he was paying was broadly in line with the second-hand item 
being offered  it wasnt too good to be true. I consider the information and photos provided 
by the seller appeared in line with what might be expected were the seller legitimate. The 
other contact Mr H had with the seller didnt raise any concerns for him, and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that it should have. Mr H says the seller was too far away for him to 
collect in person and I dont find it particularly unusual to pay for an item online and have it 
delivered rather than necessarily seeing it in person first.
Similarly, I dont find the sequence of the selling process should reasonably have caused 
Mr H concern  I dont think it unusual that a seller would want payment before despatching 
an item, and I dont think the seller accepting payment before knowing Mr Hs address 
should have caused him any real concerns either  I am not persuaded this ought to have 
seemed particularly unusual, suspicious or concerning. 
In short, taking account of all the circumstances here, on balance Im not satisfied that 
Monzo has been able to establish that Mr H made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for believing he was paying a genuine seller for a genuine item. It follows that Monzo cannot 
fairly apply the relevant exception to reimbursing Mr H under the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr H:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £50.00 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Hs claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman