DRN-2227438
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to compensate 
him cost he has incurred due to being mis-sold a car.
What happened
In early 2018 Mr R acquired a new car costing £39,240 funded by a finance agreement with 
BMWFS. He was concerned that the cars recommended retail price (RRP) didnt exceed 
£40,000 as this would attract a higher level of road tax. He was assured by the dealer, in 
writing, that it would fall into the standard tax bracket. Later Mr R discovered the RRP was 
greater than £40,000 and he was liable for the higher tax rate.
The dealer agreed to pay the excess road tax for the first year, but not the following four 
years after which the tax reverts to the lower bracket. It said that the matter would be 
resolved, but this proved unduly optimistic. 
Mr R complained to BMWFS and it said that the dealer had covered the first years additional 
cost as a goodwill gesture and it didnt consider it need do anymore. It suggested that Mr R 
had confused the RRP with the price he had paid.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted the dealer had written to Mr R to 
say: To confirm, your tax will be £160.00 per year. It was clear this was an issue which had 
concerned Mr R and he had asked for clarification before he made the purchase. He had 
been given incorrect information.
She detailed some of the confusion about the RRP between the dealer, BMW and BMWFS, 
but that was of little consequence since Mr R had been misled about the cost of the car tax. 
She thought BMWFS should reimburse Mr R for any excess road tax he would have to pay 
while he retained the car and pay him £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
BMWFS didnt agree and said it would pay £200, but it couldnt commit to an unknown sum 
for the future. Our investigator explained that an additional £325 was payable for the first five 
years for car with a RRP in excess of £40,000. As such she thought that the sum was easily 
quantifiable and time limited. Mr R said that his agreement was for four years and indicated 
that he would change the car so the amount payable would be limited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that the issue of the car tax rate was important to Mr R and it was part of his 
decision making process. His car was close to the £40,000 mark and he was aware that the 
key trigger sum was the RRP. The dealer confirmed that his cars RRP fell below that trigger 
limit and he would only pay £160 a year. That was wrong and he was misled into making a 
purchase based on incorrect information.
One option would be to reject the car, but given we can identify the additional cost Mr R has 
to pay as a result of the error I think it only sensible outcome is that this financial burden be 
met by BMWFS. 
It is right that he be compensated and the dealer has done so for the first year. However, 
potentially he will have to pay a further four years road tax at the higher rate. That said he 
has indicated he wont keep the car that long. He has paid the second years tax already and 
it is not beyond the ability of BMWFS to pay him the excess sum each year on the 
presentation of written confirmation he has paid the tax. 
Putting things right
I consider it only right that Mr R be compensated for any excess road tax he has paid or he 
has to pay in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
reimburse Mr R for the excess tax as and when he incurs this for the vehicle licence 
tax,
pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman