DRN-2434406
The complaint
 Mr E has complained about advice given by a representative of Thomson Brown Financial 
Management Ltd (TBFM) to invest his pension funds through a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM), which has led to losses.
What happened
 Mr E had an existing self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with R. His funds were 
invested in two unregulated investments, which Ill refer to as S and D, and the remaining 
funds were invested in a model portfolio through a platform, A.
In September 2015 Mr E was introduced to an appointed representative of TBFM to review 
his SIPP. For ease of reading Ill refer only to TBFM.
TBFM completed a fact-find and risk assessment, noting Mr E had a property portfolio that 
was his main retirement fund and that he wanted to take a higher risk with his SIPP funds. In 
February 2016, TBFM produced a recommendation letter outlining its advice to Mr E. TBFM 
noted the current value of Mr Es SIPP was around £85,300 and that around £26,000 of this 
was invested with A, 70:30 in favour of equities. TBFM recommended Mr E disinvest the 
funds held with A as it could not access them and so could not effectively monitor the 
performance of it. Instead it recommended Mr E invest his funds through a DFM, in its high 
risk model portfolio. It said the charges would be higher but Mr E would have access to a 
wider range of investments. TBFM recommended he keep his investments in S and D.
Mr E accepted the advice and his funds were transferred from A to the DFM. He didnt pay 
TBFM an initial advice fee but TBFM would take an ongoing advice fee of 0.5% per year.
Mr E complained, via a representative, about the advice from TBFM after the DFM went into 
administration. The representative said Mr Es pension had been invested in high-risk illiquid 
funds that werent suitable for him. The representative said TBFM had failed to undertake a 
proper fact find as it had overstated Mr Es assets and the risk he could afford to take.
TBFM didnt think the advice it had provided was unsuitable. It said the DFM was 
responsible for the purchase of any illiquid investments and any complaint about that should 
be directed towards the DFM.
Mr Es representative referred his complaint to our service. It added that Mr E had already 
been a victim of unsuitable pension advice prior to TBFMs involvement. This had resulted in 
the investments in S and D in 2013, which he had since received compensation for after 
making a complaint to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The FSCS 
hadnt considered the advice to invest via the DFM as this advice was provided by TBFM. 
The FSCS also capped the compensation payable for the investments in S and D at the date 
TBFM provided advice.
Our investigator upheld Mr Es complaint. She didnt think Mr Es attitude to risk could fairly 
be described as high; she thought it was medium at most. The investigator also didnt think 
Mr E required the bespoke service provided by the DFM, which cost Mr E more. So, she 
thought TBFM was responsible for Mr Es loss as a result of investing through the DFM. She 
also thought that TBFM was responsible for Mr Es losses associated with his investments in 
S and D because it recommended he retain the investments in 2016, and these were too 
high risk for him. She recommended compensation by comparing the performance of his 
SIPP with a benchmark, as well as five years of SIPP fees and £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
TBFM didnt agree. It maintained the advice to invest the funds held with A via a DFM was 
suitable and said the charges were only marginally higher. It said Mr E agreed he was a high 
risk taker and could afford to take a higher risk with these funds because his property 
portfolio was his main source of pension income. TBFM it said it couldnt be held responsible 
for the losses associated with the investments in S and D as it didnt believe they couldve 
sold these investments in 2016 in any event.
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision. I told both parties that I would 
likely reach a different outcome to the investigator with regard to the investments in S and D. 
I accepted that it was unlikely TBFM couldve sold these investments in 2016 as both were 
illiquid. So, I didnt think TBFM needed to pay compensation relating to these investments. 
I also didnt think TBFM needed to pay any compensation to cover future SIPP fees as it 
didnt sell Mr E the SIPP or the investments that would prevent the SIPP from closing. I said 
I agreed with the investigators view otherwise.
Mr E accepted this. TBFM maintained that its advice was suitable for Mr E. It also 
questioned why the FSCS hadnt compensated Mr E for the losses he made through the 
DFM investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When providing advice to Mr E, TBFM was required to comply with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). COBS 9.2 required TBFM to 
take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr E. To achieve 
this, COBS 9.2.2R said TBFM had to obtain enough information from Mr E to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction.
TBFM completed a fact-find, a knowledge and experience assessment and a risk tolerance 
questionnaire with Mr E on 20 September 2015. The fact find recorded the following details, 
which were repeated in the recommendation letter of 18 February 2016:
Mr E was aged 50 and was looking to retire at age 65. He was married with a 
dependent child.
His main residence was worth £300,000 and he owned buy-to-let properties, valued 
at £800,000 but with combined outstanding mortgages of £450,000.
He was employed earning an annual salary of £49,000.
He was also in receipt of rental income from his properties and had a training 
business, from which he received an additional £12,000 per year.
He had other assets (no details were provided).
The SIPP was a top up for his investment property income.
Mr E was receiving chemotherapy at the time but was on the mend.The knowledge and experience assessment said Mr E had experience with unit 
trusts/OEIC/non-cash ISAs, shares, gilts and corporate bonds, but said he did not have 
experience in structured investment products or unregulated collective investment schemes. 
Although there was space on the form to include the nature of Mr Es past investments, this 
was left blank. When asked which description best described his knowledge and experience, 
Mr E ticked a box which said he had a strong knowledge of investments.
A third-party risk tolerance questionnaire was completed, from which TBFM surmised Mr E 
was willing to take a medium to large risk with his investments. This led TBFM to 
recommend Mr E place his funds in the DFMs high risk model portfolio. However, having 
considered Mr Es assets and experience, I dont think this assessment of his attitude to risk 
was correct.
The FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued in 
March 20111 for assessing suitability, about how firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling 
tools to establish their clients attitude to risk. The FCA said that firms should have a robust 
process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to questions 
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated.
With this in mind, TBFM had a duty to investigate any inconsistencies in the fact-finding 
process, which would include inconsistencies in the answers given in the risk tolerance 
questionnaire. Ive reviewed the answers given by Mr E and note that at the point the advice 
was given in 2015, Mr E had invested in very high-risk unregulated investments with S and 
D. His funds held with A were also invested in quite a high risk manner with around 70% 
invested in equities. However, Mr E said that he had only taken 'medium' investment risks in 
the past. And in the Knowledge and Experience form, he said he didn't have any experience 
of unregulated collective investment schemes. That clearly wasn't the case.
I think if TBFM had undertaken a thorough assessment of Mr E's knowledge and experience, 
it would've found that Mr E understood less about his investments than he realised. And 
overall, I think a fair assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk in relation to the funds available to 
invest was 'medium'. This also meets with the answer Mr E gave in the risk tolerance 
questionnaire when he was specifically asked about the risk he was currently prepared to 
take. And I think this is the risk profile the adviser ought to have arrived at, knowing that the 
remainder of Mr Es pension provisions were invested in a high risk manner (the investments 
with S, D and his buy-to-let properties). Ive included Mr Es properties here because 
property is generally a higher risk investment as it is illiquid and the value that can be 
released from it is dependent on a buyer or tenant being found. So, looking at Mr Es 
pension provisions across the board, it was all invested at a higher degree of risk than 
Mr Es perception of his medium risk appetite.
TBFM has said that Mr E confirmed he wanted to take a high risk with these funds and that 
he signed the recommendation letter confirming this. But it was TBFMs job to assess Mr Es 
attitude to risk and ensure he could bear the risk of investing his funds in a high-risk manner. 
TBFM says that Mr E viewed the funds in his SIPP as surplus, and points to his extensive 
property portfolio. But I dont think that meant Mr E had a high capacity for loss and could 
afford to lose the funds in his SIPP.
1 Assessing suitability: Establishing the risk a customer is willing and able to take and making a 
suitable investment selection (Financial Services Authority - March 2011)The recommendation letter said Mr E was looking for a similar amount to what he earned at 
the time of the advice in retirement (£49,000). But I cant see that TBFM carried out any 
modelling to ensure that his current pension assets would be sufficient to support such a 
pension income. Whilst Mr E had several rental properties which he was relying on to 
provide an income in retirement, these had substantial mortgages outstanding and Mr E 
says that they were owned jointly with other parties. So, I dont think Mr E actually had a high 
capacity for loss, bearing in mind the income he said he required in retirement. 
Overall, I think TBFM ought to have recognised that Mr Es retirement funds were effectively 
all exposed to a high degree of risk and so it ought to have ensured Mr E took less risk with 
his remaining liquid funds. For this reason, I think TBFM shouldve assessed Mr Es attitude 
to risk as medium. 
I have considered whether the recommendation to switch the funds held with A to a DFM 
was suitable for Mr E. 
Mr Es only objective appears to have been maximising his investment return. However, the 
funds held with A were the only funds available to reinvest. I say this because at the time of 
the advice in 2016, Im satisfied the investments in S and D were illiquid and so I think its 
very unlikely they couldve been sold and the funds reinvested elsewhere. Mr Es funds with 
A were already exposed to a higher degree of risk than was suitable for him, so I think TBFM 
wouldve needed to recommend a fund switch at the least. I appreciate that switching Mr Es 
investment with A to a lower risk fund wouldve likely made Mr Es objective to maximise his 
returns less achievable. But it is the advisers job to make a suitable recommendation, which 
would include explaining to Mr E that he couldnt achieve higher returns without taking a 
degree of investment risk that wasnt suitable for him. Im satisfied that Mr E wouldve trusted 
the advisers professional opinion and advice rather than insisting his funds be invested in a 
high risk manner.
TBFM instead recommended Mr E place his funds with a DFM and invest in their high risk 
model portfolio. But I don't think this was a suitable recommendation for him. TBFM said by 
placing the funds with a DFM, Mr E could access a wider range of investments. But I dont 
think Mr E required bespoke portfolio management or access to a wider range of funds - all 
Mr E wanted was to maximise his investment returns. Mr Es portfolio with A was very small, 
around £26,000 at the time of the advice. But use of a DFM is more suited to much larger 
investment portfolios; this is because of the increased costs associated with a DFM which 
have a larger impact on smaller funds. 
The recommendation letter explained that placing Mr Es funds with the DFM would cost 
Mr E more. TBFM says that there was a difference in cost of around 0.1% between A and 
the DFM. This appears to be based on the recommendation letter of 16 February 2016. 
However, TBFM provided information about the DFM which showed there was a DFM fee of 
1.25%pa, which is substantially more than the fee Mr E was paying to A (0.48%). I asked 
TBFM about this and it said it had spoken to the adviser who wrote this business and he 
confirmed the DFM fee was only 1%. However, TBFM has more recently said that it is 
confident the fee specified in the recommendation letter (0.58%) is correct, but it wasnt able 
to provide any objective evidence to support this.
Ive thought about this carefully, but Im inclined to believe the DFM fee was likely 1% or 
more. I say this because TBFM provided information about the DFM showing that it charged 
customers with a small portfolio a fee of 1.25%. The recommendation letter also provided 
generic information about bespoke portfolio managers, which said the fees were typically up 
to 1% plus VAT. This also meets with my general understanding of the costs a DFM would 
typically charge. But even if I could accept that the fee was as described in the 
recommendation letter, it still says that dealing costs werent included. So, I think that the costs wouldve been higher than 0.58% in any event. When TBFMs fee of 0.5% is added to 
the DFM costs, it means that Mr E's investments would have to perform substantially better 
to ensure it achieved growth in excess of the fees being charged.
TBFM has said that Mr E couldve decided against placing his funds with the DFM if he 
hadnt needed this. But the DFM was TBFMs recommendation and I think Mr E accepted 
this believing that TBFM had made a suitable recommendation for him and was acting in his 
best interests.
 
It follows that I don't think the recommendation that Mr E place his funds with the DFM and 
invest in a high risk manner was suitable for him.
 
I appreciate that the DFM may have invested Mr E's assets differently to that anticipated by 
the adviser, but given the adviser had recommended a high risk investment strategy, it isn't 
surprising the DFM invested Mr E's funds in that way. In any event, I don't think Mr E 
would've experienced the losses he did with the DFM but for TBFMs unsuitable advice. In 
my view, the adviser ought to have recommended a low cost investment management 
arrangement, which was set out as one of the options available in the recommendation 
letter, instead. This would've been far better suited to Mr E's portfolio size and needs and 
would've given TBFM the access it required, which it couldn't achieve through A. So, I think 
TBFM is responsible for Mr Es loss as a result of investing his funds through the DFM.
The investigator also recommended that TBFM should also compensate Mr E for any loss 
he experienced on his investments in S and D because TBFM recommended he keep them. 
Whilst I don't think it was appropriate advice to keep these investments, as Ive said above 
I don't think Mr E would've been able to sell them at this point. Overall, I haven't seen 
enough evidence to support that Mr E could've recovered the funds he invested in these 
schemes at the time the advice was given by TBFM. So, I'm not asking TBFM to provide any 
redress to Mr E in respect of these investments.
 
I also dont think TBFM should cover five years' SIPP fees as recommended by the 
investigator. Another firm sold the SIPP to Mr E in 2013, and as I don't think it's likely the 
investments in S and D could've been sold in 2016, the SIPP will likely need to remain open 
to hold these investments. So, I don't think TBFM should bear any responsibility for the SIPP 
remaining open, or cover any future fees.
TBFM has questioned why Mr E hasnt been able to reclaim his losses from the FSCS. It 
says the DFM is responsible for this. But as a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS 
wont pay out if a third party could also be held liable. This means an apportionment of only 
part of the loss to TBFM could risk leaving Mr E out of pocket. With this in mind  and 
recognising also that Mr E wouldnt have lost out at all but for TBFMs unsuitable advice  
I think apportioning responsibility to TBFM for the whole of the loss represents fair 
compensation in this case.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr E should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr E would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr E's circumstances and objectives when he invested. What should TBFM do?
To compensate Mr E fairly, TBFM must:
Compare the performance of Mr E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
TBFM should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, TBFM should pay into Mr E's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If TBFM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr E's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr E's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age, presumed to be 20%. However, if 
Mr E would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr E £200 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TBFM deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. TBFM should give Mr E a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
DFM 
investmentstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. TBFM should take ownership of the illiquid 
investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If TBFM is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. TBFM may require that Mr E provides an undertaking to pay 
TBFM any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. TBFM will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if TBFM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr E wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr E's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr E 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman