DRN-3489145
The complaint
Mr L says that Insight Financial Associates Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his personal pension into a family pension trust (FPT).
What happened
Mr L met Insight a couple of times during October 2011, initially to discuss a group 
personal pension plan that he was invested in. According to Insights notes, Mr Ls initial 
intention was to review the contribution levels being paid into the pension scheme.  
During the discussion, it came to light that Mr L (who was also an experienced buy to let 
landlord in the UK) had already invested in property in Cape Verde on a cash deposit 
basis. According to what Insight noted, a consultant for the Cape Verde development said 
that funding for another property in the development could be arranged through 
investment in a SIPP (self-invested personal pension) or a FPT. So, Mr L was keen to 
explore the possibility of jointly buying another property with a family member using his 
pension fund. 
Mr L signed up to Insights financial planning service (which included regular reviews of 
his investments), although it noted that its focus was specifically on Mr Ls retirement 
planning. 
Following its discussions with Mr L, Insight completed a financial planning report, which it 
sent to Mr L with a letter dated 3 November 2011. In it it noted the following about Mr Ls 
circumstances: 
He was age 42, married with two financial dependants;
His gross annual income was £46,772 comprised of a basic salary of £11,308 and 
dividends of £35,464 from the company. 
Mr Ls existing group personal pension plan was invested in an adventurous 
strategy and had a transfer value of £68,851.82;
His residential property was valued at £400,000 and he had two buy-to-let 
properties in the UK jointly valued at £260,000. Mortgages were in place, but no 
other details were discussed; 
Mr L had already invested about £100,000 in another Cape Verde property and 
owned a share of his business premises;
His attitute to risk (ATR) was medium to high which was described as someone 
prepared to invest their capital in more volatile markets with the potential for 
higher than average returns;  
He was a certified high net worth individual, holding assets of more than £250,000 
(excluding his main residence).
Mr Ls monthly expenditure and other aspects of financial planning werent discussed as 
Mr L apparently wanted to focus solely on retirement planning.
Other things that Insight noted were:
Mr L had ruled out other ways of funding another Cape Verde investment 
property, such as remortgaging or taking out a loan. Investing in a SIPP or FPT 
was apparently his preferred option;
Mr L viewed the acquisition of another property using his pension, as a means of 
enhancing his retirement provision. He strongly believed that this would give him a 
good source of income and would attract various taxation benefits;
Mr L wanted Insights advice about finding a SIPP or FPT that would enable him 
to invest in the Cape Verde property. However, Insight noted it hadnt given Mr L 
any advice about whether a SIPP or FPT was the most suitable vehicle to 
facilitate the property acquisition;  
Whilst other types of investments were apparently discussed, such as traditional 
managed funds, Mr L indicated he wanted to proceed with the property purchase 
using a SIPP or FPT; 
It was possible for Mr L to transfer all but £1 of his existing group personal 
pension fund to allow further contributions to be made going forward; 
Mr L was aware of the high degree of risk associated with the investment. And 
whilst an individual SIPP was discussed as an alternative option, Mr L preferred 
the simplicity of an FPT and the wide choice of investment options it offered 
(aside from investments in property);  
It had explored switching to other types of pension such as a stakeholder pension 
or personal pension. But these didnt offer the investment options Mr L was 
seeking, such as investment in overseas property. And a SIPP wouldnt allow for 
investments with family members. 
Whilst noting the much higher charges attached, Insight recommended that Mr L transfer 
£68,851.82 from his existing pension to a FPT with a provider Ill refer to as R. In doing so 
it highlighted some of the benefits of such an arrangement, not least Rs renowned 
expertise in the field of self-administered pensions and the competitive terms it offered 
for such a transfer. The following fund choices were recommended to Mr L:
the Cape Verde development  which, as noted, was high risk;
cash - which was low risk;
Insight felt this choice of funds was suitable for an investment of 23 years or more.
It included a direct comparison of charges between Mr Ls existing provider and R.
And, given the higher charges involved, Insight said the underlying investment needed to 
outperform the difference in charges to achieve potentially greater returns. 
Insight noted a number of key risks associated with the investment including that it was an 
illiquid asset - meaning that Mr L may not be able to sell it when he wanted to. It also said 
that Mr Ls attitude to risk (ATR) was medium to high. Despite that, it said Mr L was 
willing to accept the higher risk attached to the Cape Verde development. 
Mr L accepted Insights advice and transferred his existing pension into an FPT.
R sent Mr L pension statements. He also received account statements relating to the 
FPT. These showed (amongst other things) a year on year reduction in the net assets 
being carried forward. 
In August 2015 the company involved in the Cape Verde development wrote to Mr L. It 
noted his consent to consolidating his original purchase and swapping his investment to 
a different unit in the development. It enclosed a signed sales agreement and a 
revocation agreement signed by the relevant parties on 10 August 2015. According to 
Insight, the reason for the change in investment was because there were not enough funds in the FPT to complete the purchase of the original property. 
Insight produced a portfolio report for Mr L in April 2017. It said the current value of Mr 
Ls portion of the FPT was £68,376.19, which represented a loss on the initial 
investment. 
R wrote to Mr L in November 2017 about the outstanding fees on his account. It said it 
had arranged to collect £684.89 from the scheme bank account. However, as that would 
only partially settle its invoice, it would collect the remaining amount (£1,145.11) once 
rental income was received. It sent a similar letter to Mr L in November 2018. At that point 
the total amount outstanding was £2,441.48.
Mr L complained to Insight in July 2020 about the advice hed received.
Insight made a number of points in response. Those included:
Mr L had already made the decision to switch his pension to enable him to invest 
in overseas property and his instructions were for Insight to help him find a 
pension plan that would facilitate that investment;
Mr Ls experience in investing in overseas property was very clear;
Mr L felt investing in this way would enhance his retirement provision and be a 
good source of income. Insight felt it met its regulatory duties by understanding 
Mr Ls  needs and objectives and experience in this investment field. 
That Mr L ought to have been aware his investment may be exposed to 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. And it was 
open to him to seek advice from someone who specialised in non-mainstream 
pooled investments.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service and disputed a number of the points that Insight 
had made. Our investigator looked into the merits of the complaint. He upheld it identifying 
several failures in Insights advice and the process it followed. He set out how Insight 
should put things right.
Mr L accepted the investigators assessment, but Insight didnt. It said (amongst other 
things) Mr L ought to have been aware what he was investing in and that his investment 
wasnt guaranteed. It also felt Mr L was holding it totally to blame without any consideration 
for what he wanted to achieve.
Insight asked for an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh, so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What was Insight required to do?
When thinking about whether Insight acted fairly and reasonably in Mr Ls particular 
case, its helpful, I think, to start by referring to the obligations placed on firms like 
Insight by the regulator. 
Theres an overarching obligation set out within Section 2.1 of the Code of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) which describes the need for businesses to act honestly fairly 
and professionally and in their clients best interests.
A firms other obligations will, to an extent, depend on the nature of the service theyre 
giving the consumer. So, for instance, if theyre dealing with the client on an execution 
only basis, the firm wouldnt give advice, nor would the customer usually expect to receive it. In these circumstances the consumer would typically approach a firm for 
help to complete a financial transaction, having already decided what it is they want to 
do. 
And that distinction is relevant in this case. I say that because one of the arguments Insight 
made was that Mr L had already made his mind up about what he wanted to do when he 
approached it. And it seemed to think its role was simply to find the right type of pension to 
enable Mr L to switch his existing pension and, ultimately, facilitate an investment in the 
overseas property.
I dont think Insights position is supported by the evidence. Had Mr L come with a clear 
instruction, I wouldnt necessarily expect to see Insight offering a service and advice geared 
towards retirement planning. It would have been clear that Mr L had given a specific 
instruction for Insight to act upon. And whilst its fair to say that Mr L did approach Insight 
with the intention of exploring the possibility of using his pension to invest in overseas 
property (having clearly been enticed by the promotional information he received) I dont 
think the two things are the same. 
And, bearing in mind that Insight agreed to give Mr L advice about his retirement planning 
and what would ultimately enhance his retirement provision, I think Insight had a 
responsibility to explore, not just those options that Mr L had expressed an interest in, but all 
suitable options. And in doing so, it needed to take account of Mr Ls wider circumstances 
and advise him accordingly. Even if that advice was to leave things as they were.
The (incorrect) assumption about its position led to Insight restricting aspects of its advice. 
Because it seemed to suggest it was there just to help find the right pension that would 
accept the overseas property investment. Thats supported by an entry in the fact find saying 
it hadnt offered Mr L any advice about whether a SIPP or FPT was the right vehicle to 
make his investment, but it had simply found one that could do what he wanted  or what it 
thought Mr L wanted. 
However, elsewhere in the documentation, Insight said things like it had discussed other 
funding options and other types of investment (such as traditional managed funds). And, 
under the heading recommendation summary Insight said following our review of your 
circumstances and objectives, my recommendations are to transfer your [name of provider] 
group personal pension into a [name of provider] family pension trust. So, Im persuaded 
from everything Ive seen that Insight did give Mr L advice about opening an FPT.  
Im also satisfied that Mr L signed up for retirement planning in the wider sense. So, I think 
Insight had a duty to fully explore his aims and objectives and wider financial position.  It 
then needed to give him advice that was in his best interests overall. The regulatory position 
is also quite clear that when giving advice, the adviser firm needed to consider not only the 
suitability of the vehicle used to make the investment, but the underlying investments 
themselves. In this case, Insight knew that Mr L had approached it for advice about 
potentially moving his personal pension to a FPT (or SIPP) so he could invest in a high risk 
overseas property. But it is effectively saying its not responsible for the investment advice. 
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont support that position.
COBS sets out further obligations on firms when assessing the suitability of investments. 
Paragraph 9.2.1R says that the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives. Whilst Insight is clearly of the 
opinion that it satisfied the regulators expectations, I dont agree. Ill explain why.
Did Insight give Mr L suitable advice? 
Bearing in mind the obligations Ive set out above, the kinds of things Id have expected 
Insight to find out are why Mr L wanted to invest at the point he did and whether his 
investment aims were reasonable. Overall, Insight had to demonstrate that its advice 
and recommendations were suitable and in Mr Ls best interests. I dont think its done 
that.Mr Ls financial position and income needs
Mr L was 42 years old at the time of the advice. His income was derived from a fairly 
modest basic income of just over £11,000 and dividends of around £35,000. As I 
understand things, dividends are not a guaranteed source of income and are 
dependant on any profits made by the company. I think that also means theyre subject 
to fluctuation.  Insight didnt ask Mr L for more information about this, for instance 
about average earnings over a particular period. 
Mr L also had several buy to let properties in the UK along with an investment in 
another overseas property. Whilst theres some detail recorded of his liabilities in 
respect of the buy to let properties (to the extent that hed taken out mortgages on 
them) little other information is held. Nor is it clear what level of income was being 
earned on these investments. Similarly, theres little else recorded about savings or 
other assets. 
Insight didnt ascertain Mr Ls likely income needs in retirement. Ive seen no evidence 
of it trying to get to the bottom of this important question. And I think that would have 
been important to enable Mr L to make an informed decision about what he wanted to 
do with his pension funds. 
The upshot of all of the above is that Insight gave Mr L advice without having a 
complete picture of his financial position and income needs in retirement. I can see that 
Insight asked Mr L to sign a declaration indicating he understood that not having all of 
the relevant information might affect any recommendations Insight made. But I dont 
think that was enough. I think Insight should have explained the importance of having 
all of the necessary information  not least to fulfil its regulatory responsibilities and, 
ultimately, enable Mr L to make an informed and balanced decision. 
Mr Ls investment aims; knowledge and attitude to risk
Part and parcel of the advice process is about understanding the consumers 
investment objectives; knowledge of the specific investment field involved and attitute 
to risk. Thats important if the firm is to give well rounded advice taking into account the 
consumers wider financial position. 
Mr L said information he was given by the company involved in the Cape Verde 
development indicated he might be able to invest in a SIPP or FPT as a means of 
making another investment. And he indicated hed probably be looking to use his 
pension to do that. 
In these circumstances, Insight had a number of important obligations. 
Firstly, it clearly knew (and confirmed that) what Mr L was interested in doing was high 
risk. Especially as it apparently knew (according to Mr L) that another similar 
investment wasnt doing particularly well. So, I think things became all the more risky 
as soon as Mr L indicated hed be looking to use his pension to fund the investment.
One of the first things Insight needed to do here was to understand why Mr L was 
looking to invest at the point he did. I say that for a few different reasons including 
some of those Ive set out earlier. One of those was so it could satisfy itself that Mr Ls 
objectives were feasible. And even if it thought they were, it needed to make sure that 
all suitable options for funding had been considered - including whether Mr L could 
invest and leave his pension intact. If it didnt think the objectives were viable, it 
needed to say so. 
The evidence does suggest that Insight discussed other options such as Mr L leaving 
his pension as it was, or switching to a different type of pension such as a stakeholder 
pension. But that appears to have been in the context of what would best facilitate an 
investment into the overseas development. I dont think that was enough. It also needed to think about whether the right advice was for Mr L to leave his pension 
exactly where it was. 
Insights since argued (in its complaint response to Mr L) that it met its regulatory 
obligations because it recommended a course of action that met Mr Ls objectives. I 
think Insights missed the point somewhat. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr L 
wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives. Other than noting 
that Mr L thought investing in the Cape Verde development would enhance his 
retirement provision and generate a good source of income, theres little else recorded 
in terms of Mr Ls objectives. In these circumstances, Id have expected Insight to 
explore what would best enhance Mr Ls retirement provision overall and weigh up the 
pros and cons of each  including any associated risks. Theres not enough evidence 
to persuade me Insight did that.
Insight also said that Mr Ls experience of investing in overseas property is very clear. 
Whilst I think theres little doubt Mr L had already invested in a similar field, that by no 
means makes him experienced. And hed apparently also told Insight his investment 
wasnt doing very well, yet (according to Mr L) hed been encouraged by Insight that 
things would improve. It also doesnt make Mr L experienced in pensions and 
retirement planning, or even investing more generally. So, it was incumbent upon 
Insight to do the right thing and give Mr L suitable advice. 
Again, Insight was in a good position to test and challenge Mr L about what was in his 
best interests for his retirement planning  especially as it knew pension pots build up 
over time specifically to provide a retirement income. And that meant considering the 
suitability of the whole transaction and not simply focussing most of its efforts on who it 
thought was the best FPT provider. And whilst the evidence does show that Insight set 
out some of the risks associated with the overseas property investment, including that 
it was illiquid, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think its approach went far enough. 
Nor does setting out some risks suddenly make an unsuitable investment become 
suitable.
Insight also knew that Mr Ls risk attitude was medium to high. And it clearly knew that the 
Cape Verde development was high risk and didnt match Mr Ls risk attitude. Furthermore, it 
also knew that Mr L had made a significant investment in a similarly high risk investment 
already. So, I think that was all the more reason for it to take additional care when advising 
Mr L.  
In addition, Insight hasnt demonstrated that it thought about Mr Ls capacity for loss. Again, I 
think that became all the more important once it was minded to facilitate an investment that 
was of much higher risk than Mr Ls attitude to risk was generally comfortable with. And 
especially one involving what appeared to be Mr Ls only source of pension provision. 
Arguably, without having a full understanding of Mr Ls full financial position, that probably 
became more difficult to determine. But from the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly say Insight 
exercised its duty of care towards Mr L by satisfying itself that he was able to withstand any 
losses he might suffer.
Diversification of investments
As Ive set out earlier, at the point at which Mr L approached Insight about the possibility of 
an investment in the overseas development, it needed to give him advice that was in his best 
interests overall. It also needed to make sure its advice was compliant with the regulators 
expectations. 
In 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report, both in terms of promotion and advice relating to UCIS (unregulated 
collective investment scheme) investments. The report highlighted examples of good 
practice in relation to unregulated investments, for example where a firm had robust controls 
in place and limited client exposure to 3 to 5% of their portfolios (where those clients had 
been assessed as being suitable for unregulated investments). An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a clients holdings 
were invested in a single UCIS. 
The Cape Verde investment wasnt technically a UCIS, but it is unregulated and shares 
many of the same features of such investments  including being of a very high risk nature. 
It was also an illiquid investment and was subject to third party and development risks. And 
this is something that Insight needed to take careful account of. 
In its suitability report, Insight noted that Mr L was a high net worth individual. Whilst I accept  
that might make promotion of such investments more suitable for someone like Mr L, that 
doesnt automatically mean he should have been advised to invest in such schemes. 
Part of the Regulators 2010 report focusses on suitability. It highlights some of the key risks, 
which include but were not limited to:
firms recommending UCIS to their customers based on out-of-date or limited KYC 
(know your customer). There is a risk that UCIS may not be suitable for the 
customers personal and financial circumstances.
It cites an example of good practice as:
The firm obtains and retains full KYC, including the customers assets, other 
investments and their underlying assets; their objectives and needs for immediate 
income, their knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
specific type of investments or service; and attitude to risk (ATR). The firm uses this 
to establish the customers eligibility for the promotion of UCIS.
Conversely, it says an example of poor practice might be:
The firm gathered limited KYC information, i.e. there were no details of the 
customers current portfolio or their underlying assets. The firm recommended UCIS 
which actually made up almost 70% of his investment portfolio. 
The firm did not assess their customers knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of investments, yet still recommended UCIS to its 
customer, believing the customer was a sophisticated investor.
As Ive already said, I dont think Insight did enough to make sure it fully understood Mr Ls 
motives or overall financial position to justify its advice. And that also meant that it couldnt 
fully and clearly demonstrate that its advice took account of the regulators position 
concerning the proportion of Mr Ls assets that were exposed to such high risk investments. 
From the information that is in the fact find, Mr L already had about £100,000 invested in a 
Cape Verde debelopment. So, in order to satisfy the recommended upper threshold of 5%, 
Mr L would need to have a considerable amount more investable assets before further 
investment in UCIS could be considered appropriate. Without having access to all of the 
information needed, I agree with our investigator that Insight placed Mr L in an unknown 
position. And I think the upshot of that was that Mr L ended up with high risk investments 
and a high proportion of property investments.  
Conclusion
Taking account of the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Insights advice was suitable. 
And it hasnt done enough to clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ls best interests to 
switch his pension and invest in the way he did. In these circumstances, irrespective of 
what it thought Mr L wanted, I think Insight should have told him in clear terms that he 
shouldnt be placing his pension funds in an investment that was too high risk and 
didnt match his attitude to risk. It didnt do that. 
Would Mr L have gone ahead anyway?
Ive also thought carefully about whether Mr L would have gone ahead anyway, even if 
Insight had given him suitable advice to switch his pension. And, on balance, I dont 
think he would.
Mr Ls initial investment in a Cape Verde development was apparently based on other advice he received - as opposed to it being a personal investment choice. And in his 
submission to this service, Mr L indicated that when he approached Insight, he didnt 
have a preconcieved idea about making another similar investment. Although its fair to 
say he was keen to explore the possibility based on information he received from the  
property group. Thats not entirely surprising. 
But in the same way that Mr L apparently followed the first advice he received to invest 
in a Cape Verde development, its reasonable to assume that, had Insight given him 
suitable and unequivocal advice not to switch his pension and invest in further 
overseas property, hed have followed that advice. Theres no persuasive evidence 
that tells me having approached Insight for advice about retirement planning, Mr L 
would have gone against its advice if it had been suitable and in his best interests. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Insight do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Insight must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Insight should add interest as set out below.
Insight should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Insight is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr L wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its assumed that Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age. So, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation meaning an overall reduction of 15%.
Mr L seems to have been caused a fair degree of worry and uncertainty about his 
investment as a result of the unsuitable advice he received. To fairly recognise this, 
Insight should pay Mr L £400 in compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Insight should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr L asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Pension plan 
with RSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving Mr 
Ls 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Insight should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Insight pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Insight is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Insight may require that Mr L provides an 
undertaking to pay Insight any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr L's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Insight should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the pension plan with R should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Insight totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Insight will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr L's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
Mr Ls portion of the pension plan with R includes illiquid assets. In order to prevent him 
being charged further fees, his portion of the assets need to be removed. Ive set out above 
how this might be achieved by Insight taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something 
that Mr L can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Insight is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr L an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for 
other arrangements to be made. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Insight Financial Associates Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a 
clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Insight Financial Associates 
Limited should pay Mr L the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the 
amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Insight Financial Associates Limited pays Mr L the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Insight 
Financial Associates Limited. It is unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Insight Financial Associates Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mr L. This is until any future benefit that he 
may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Insight Financial 
Associates Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out 
above.
Insight Financial Associates Limited may request an undertaking from Mr L that either he 
repays to it any amount Mr L may receive from the portfolio thereafter or if possible, 
transfers the portfolio to Insight at that point.
Mr L should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And I now direct Insight Financial Associates Limited to put things 
right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman