DRN-3037792
The complaint
Mr S, represented by a third party, complains that Morses Club PLC was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with four home credit loans by Morses Club between January 2017 and 
May 2018. 
Loan Start Date End Date Amount Term (weeks) Weekly repayment 
1 31/01/2017 26/05/2017 £300 33 £15
2 26/05/2017 09/11/2017 £500 33 £25
3 09/11/2017 24/05/2018 £700 33 £35
4 24/05/2018 28/08/2018 £1,000 33 £50
Mr S says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided and had 
they been, Morses Club would have realised the loans werent affordable.
Morses Club issued a final response letter in April 2021. It said that affordability checks were 
carried out with the agent and that based on the information it received the loan repayments 
were affordable.
Mr S didnt agree with Morses Clubs response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think he had enough to say that 
loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided. But by loan 4 he said that Mr S had shown signs 
that he was struggling to repay his previous loans. He said that Mr S was taking on new 
loans to repay the existing loan with each loan being for a larger amount. 
Morses Club didnt agree that loan 4 had been mis-sold. It said it wasnt unusual for the loan 
amounts to increase over time and that it wouldnt lend £1,000 on a first loan. It said the 
increased amount lent reflected the increase in Mr S disposable income which rose from 
£120 to £250 per week. It said it verified Mr S income with the credit reference agency 
before loan 4 was provided. It said each loan was repaid early and Mr S didnt let it know at 
the time that he was in financial difficulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the 
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure the 
repayments were sustainably affordable for Mr S. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unaffordable.
Before the loans were provided information about Mr S income and expenses was gathered. 
I understand given the type of lending this happened with an agent. The income and 
expenses spreadsheet provided by Morses Club records evidence as being provided for 
Mr S wages in regard to loans 1 to 3. I havent seen the evidence verifying Mr S income but 
I note the information Mr S has provided about his income at the time is in line with the 
amounts declared. 
Information was also gathered about Mr S expenditure and based on Morses Clubs figures 
I accept that loans 1 to 3 appeared affordable. While Mr S provided different expenses 
figures when raising his complaint, I think it was reasonable before loans 1 to 3 to rely on the 
information provided at the time the loans were granted. 
Overall, I think the checks carried out before the first three loans were provided were 
proportionate given the size of the loans, Mr S declared income, and his repayment history. 
As the checks didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loans I do not find I have 
enough to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided.
Our adjudicator didnt think that loan 4 should have been provided. Morses Club has said 
that the increase in lending was reasonable given the increase in Mr S disposable income. 
However, by loan 4, Mr S had been borrowing from Morses Club for around 16 months with 
no breaks. While each loan was repaid early a new loan was taken out at the same time for 
a larger amount. I think by loan 4 the timing of the loans (no breaks) and the increase in 
Mr S indebtedness (from £300 for the first loan to £1,000 for loan 4) should have raised 
concerns that Mr S wasnt managing his money and had become reliant on the loans. 
Therefore, I do not find it was reasonable to consider loan 4 as sustainably affordable for 
Mr S and so I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S after loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to laon 4. Morses Club PLC should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loan 4 along with interest of 8% 
simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
the overall pattern of Mr S borrowing by loan 4 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so all entries about loan 4 should be removed from Mr S' credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this loan. Morses Club PLC should take the actions 
set out above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman