DRN-1868972
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed their in-house re-mortgage 
application. As a result, they say they were unfairly charged its Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR) while their application was being processed. 
In order to put matters right they want Barclays to refund the difference between the interest 
they paid at its SVR and the amount they would have paid if the new mortgage product had 
been applied to their mortgage as soon as their previous mortgage product ended.
Mrs and Mr M are represented by a third party in this matter.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M held a mortgage with Barclays. On 21 January 2019 they submitted an in-
house re-mortgage application as they wanted to increase their borrowing, take out a new 
mortgage product and extend the term of their mortgage. The application was submitted nine 
working days before their existing mortgage product was due to end.
As they wanted to extend the term of their mortgage and take on additional borrowing the 
application was considered by Barclays underwriters. Barclays requested additional 
information on Mrs and Mr Ms income in order to determine whether it was willing to accept 
the application.
The in-house re-mortgage was completed on 26 February 2019. As it was not completed 
before Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage product ended on 31 January 2019, Barclays applied its 
SVR to their outstanding mortgage balance from the date their previous mortgage product 
ended to the date their in-house re-mortgage completed.
Mrs and Mr Ms representative complained to Barclays. He said Barclays should have 
backdated the new mortgage product to the date their previous mortgage product had 
ended. He said Mrs and Mr M had unfairly been charged an additional £900 in mortgage 
interest as Barclays had not backdated the new mortgage product.
Barclays did not uphold the complaint. It said that it had explained at the time that because 
Mrs and Mr M were applying to extend the term of their mortgage and take out additional 
borrowing, as well as applying for a new mortgage product, their application couldnt be 
treated as a standard internal re-mortgage. The meant that the application would take 
longer to determine as it needed to be considered by its underwriters. It explained that its 
underwriters are entitled to ask for additional information before deciding whether to accept 
an application, as they had in this case. 
It said it didnt think there had been any undue delay in considering Mrs and Mr Ms 
application. It also said that as it had not been possible to process the application by 31 
January 2019 (when Mrs and Mr Ms previous mortgage product ended) the existing 
mortgage had been transferred to its SVR until their application was agreed.
Mrs and Mr M werent satisfied with Barclays response and their representative referred their 
complaint to this service. Their representative also said that he had been in touch with 
Barclays in late 2018 about the application and had been given incorrect information about 
the process. Unfortunately, he was unable to provide any records of these discussions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
Barclays had dealt with the application promptly and had not caused any undue delay. As 
the application had been made so close to expiry of Mrs and Mr Ms existing mortgage 
product, he said he didnt think Barclays could reasonably have been expected to consider 
the application before their existing mortgage product ended. 
Mrs and Mr Ms representative did not accept our investigators view. He said, in summary, 
that he felt Barclays was profiting from delays in the process. He also reiterated that 
Barclays had given both he and Mrs and Mr M incorrect information about the application 
process in late 2018 and said that we had assurances it would be fine.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs and Mr Ms position and I can understand why they feel Barclays 
should have backdated the start date of their new mortgage product to the date their 
previous mortgage product ended.
But in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Barclays acted 
incorrectly or treated them unfairly. Having carefully considered the information available I 
cant reasonably find that Barclays did act incorrectly in this matter or treat Mrs and Mr M 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
I havent seen anything to show that Barclays told Mrs and Mr M that the mortgage product 
they had applied for would be backdated to the date their previous mortgage product ended. 
Nor have I seen anything that shows or suggests that Barclays told Mrs and Mr M that their 
application would be processed before their existing mortgage product ended. As Barclays 
has explained, the application they made in late January 2019 needed to be considered by 
its underwriters as Mrs and Mr M wanted to extend their mortgage term and borrow 
additional funds as well as take out a new mortgage product.
All lenders are required to ensure that any lending is responsible and to take adequate steps 
to determine that any new borrowing agreed is affordable. In order to satisfy itself that the 
mortgage was affordable for Mrs and Mr M Barclays asked for additional information about 
their income. I appreciate that this caused a short delay in processing their application, but I 
am satisfied that Barclays was entitled to request and consider this information before 
deciding whether it was willing to extend the term of their mortgage and agree to additional 
borrowing.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to transfer Mrs and Mr M to its SVR 
when their previous mortgage product ended on 31 January 2019. This was in line with the 
terms and conditions of their mortgage.
It is unfortunate that Mrs and Mr Ms representative has not been able to access his records 
in relation to conversations he had with Barclays in late 2018 about the application Mrs and 
Mr M wanted to make. Our investigator also asked Barclays for any records it had of 
conversations with Mrs and Mr Ms representative in late 2018 about their intended 
application. It said it had no record of any emails or conversations. As neither party has 
provided anything to show what was discussed I cant reasonably find that Barclays did give 
incorrect information about the application process.Once the application was submitted on 21 January 2019, I am satisfied that Barclays did not 
cause any undue delay in considering the application. As this is the case, I cant reasonably 
require Barclays to backdate the new mortgage product to the date Mrs and Mr Ms previous 
mortgage product ended.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs and Mr M were hoping for, but in the 
absence of anything to show that Barclays agreed to backdate their new mortgage product I 
cant reasonably find that it has done anything wrong or treated them unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman