DRN-1579151
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has handled her claim. 
She feels the cash settlement isnt enough to repair the damage to her property and hasnt 
been calculated correctly.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied RSA had 
correctly recorded the damage that needed to be repaired. And she felt RSAs offer to either 
use its own contractors or pay Ms T a cash settlement was fair because it was in line with 
the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Ms T disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She said RSA 
hasnt sent her a correct schedule of works and has tried to intimidate her into accepting its 
contractors or a cash settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms T feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ts policy. These say RSA can either use its 
own contractors or it can pay Ms T a cash settlement to the same value it wouldve paid its 
contractors. Ms T has now said she would like a cash settlement. Having reviewed the 
settlement and the list of work RSA said was needed, Im satisfied its fair and in line with 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
I note RSA has already sent this payment to Ms T which she isnt happy with. I dont think 
RSA is trying to intimidate her by making this payment. Im satisfied that its trying to bring 
this claim to a conclusion. Ms T might not be happy with the settlement figure and how RSA 
has arrived at that amount, but this doesnt mean RSA shouldnt have sent it to her. 
For these reasons, although I recognise Ms Ts frustrations with the claim, Im not going to 
ask RSA to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman