DRN-4041064
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy that she had two claims declined under the Tech pack that she holds with 
her Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) bank account. 
She is also unhappy that in March 2020 when she contacted Barclays about her Travel pack 
she was not allowed to put the policy on hold and was misinformed about whether she could 
cancel her Travel pack and later get the same pack with the same cover in the future.
What happened
Miss Y has said that she tried to make two claims on her Tech pack. The first was a claim for 
a mobile phone handset. Miss Y says that the insurer would not guarantee her original parts 
for her phone and that this would invalidate her warranty. The second claim was for a laptop 
which was declined by the insurer as Miss Y did not have the serial number of the laptop.
In March 2020 Miss Y says she contacted Barclays to enquire about pausing paying or 
removing her Travel pack as due to the Covid-19 pandemic she would not be travelling. She 
said that she was told by Barclays that if she removed she would not be able to add it in the 
future with the exact same terms.
One of our adjudicators looked into this matter already, she concluded that Barclays had 
listed the relevant terms in the documents that it had issued about the packs and that is all it 
was liable for. Any issue with the claims she believed should be directed to the insurers.
In relation to the March 2020 phone call she said did not think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong as it had temporarily removed the Travel pack around this time and there 
were no guarantees that it would be added again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the two claims, I can see that the Term and Conditions for the Tech pack 
explain that proof of ownership is required for a successful claim and also says that repairs 
could be made with refurbished or unbranded parts. Barclays is only liable for providing the 
pack holders with the Terms and Conditions of the Tech pack policy and I am satisfied that it 
would have done so during the migration process in 2017. I should add that these terms are 
not unusual in similar policies and ultimately it was up to Miss Y to decide when provided 
with these Terms and Conditions whether she wanted the Tech pack or not. If Miss Y 
believes that the claims were declined incorrectly, she would have to direct her concerns to 
the insurer.
In relation to the phone call, Barclays had no obligation to allow customers to put the Travel 
pack on hold. Additionally, I find it unlikely that a member of staff at Barclays would provide a 
guarantee that the Travel pack would never be available again with the same exact terms 
and conditions. On balance I find it more likely that Miss Y was told that Barclays could not 
guarantee that the Travel pack would be available again with the same exact terms and 
conditions. Overall, I think Miss Y was given the best available information at the time given 
how uncertain things were during March 2020 and it was up to Miss Y whether to keep the 
Travel pack or remove it and take the chance that it would be available again.
Having considered everything I think that Barclays has not done anything wrong in relation to 
this complaint that merits an award of compensation and it follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman