DRN-4020574
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt contact him when his policy matured. He 
has now received the maturity proceeds, plus interest and compensation, but he says the 
compensation does not take into account inflation, or the impact of the delay on his personal 
circumstances.
What happened
Mr S had a life assurance policy with Scottish Widows. It matured on 14 December 2000. 
Scottish Widows didnt contact Mr S about the maturity until November 2021.
Following his complaint, Scottish Widows paid Mr S the maturity value, plus interest at the 
rate of 8% simple, and £300 compensation. 
Mr S asked for a breakdown of how the interest was calculated and said he should receive 
compound interest on the maturity payment.
Our investigator said Scottish Widows calculation of compensation was in line with what this 
service would recommend and that we couldnt tell it to pay compound interest. Mr S 
accepted this and said he should instead receive todays equivalent of the maturity value of 
his policy, which he calculates to be around an additional £15,000.
The investigator thought Scottish Widows had put Mr S back in the position hed be in now if 
it hadnt made a mistake. He didnt think it needed to consider the effects of inflation as well 
as paying 8% interest.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He was denied use of the money for more than 20 years.
He hasnt been compensated for the impact of inflation.
The investigator hasnt considered what he may have done with the maturity proceeds in 
2000. Or the fact that he could most likely have gifted the money with no inheritance tax 
impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows should have contacted Mr S in or around December 2000 to tell him that 
his life assurance policy had matured. Scottish Widows accepts it made a mistake. I need to 
decide if the redress paid to Mr S is fair and reasonable.
As our investigator explained, when a business makes a mistake, our aim is to try to put the 
consumer back in the position theyd be in if the error hadnt been made. This isnt always 
straightforward, particularly in circumstances like Mr Ss where he should have received the 
maturity proceeds more than 20 years ago.
It's difficult for me to say exactly what the cost is to Mr S of being deprived of the maturity 
proceeds. He told us he most likely would have bought a property for his children which by 
now would have substantially increased in value. And that if he gifts the money to his 
children now, theyre far more likely to have to pay inheritance tax on it because of his 
advancing years. 
Ive considered what Mr S has told us, but its difficult for me to conclude with any certainty 
what he would have done had he received the money when he should have. Although, from 
what hes told us, it seems he didnt need the money to repay a debt or to supplement his 
income, and it obviously wasnt earmarked for anything in particular, because he hadnt 
realised he was due to receive it.
The fact that Mr S says he most likely would have gifted it, suggests the impact of not 
receiving the money has primarily impacted a third party rather than himself. And my role 
doesnt extend to compensating individuals other than the eligible complainant. Also, whilst 
I understand his concerns about inheritance tax, I cant compensate him for something that 
may happen, and any gift he may decide to make will be treated as a potentially exempt 
transfer as it would have been in 2000.
So, whilst I accept the receipt of a lump sum in 2000 might have influenced a whole range of 
decisions about Mr Ss spending, borrowing, or investing, I dont think theres evidence to 
show a quantifiable loss. In circumstances like this, we would usually recommend the 
business pays interest on the amount the consumer should have received at the rate of 8% 
simple per year. This is what Scottish Widows has already paid Mr S and I think, in the 
overall circumstances, this fairly and reasonably compensates him for being deprived of the 
money. 
Mr S says the purchasing power of the sum has diminished over time due to inflation and he 
should be paid more to reflect the amount the policy maturity value would be worth today. 
But, as Ive outlined above, I cant say what Mr S would have used the money for and so 
I cant conclude with any certainty what the value of that money would be worth today. In the 
circumstances I think the interest paid fairly compensates him for being without the money 
he should have received, and I cant reasonably order Scottish Widows to pay him anything 
more.
Mr S had to contact Scottish Widows several times for a breakdown of the compensation 
hed been paid. I think Scottish Widows should have taken the time to explain its position 
more clearly, rather than repeatedly asking Mr S to provide payment details. But it 
apologised and paid Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused and £50 for the 
delay in responding to his complaint. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman