DRN-2683711
The complaint
Mr J says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
he had a significant amount of other debt. He thinks that Lending Stream shouldve seen this 
and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mr J on 
31 August2018. Mr J borrowed £500 and he was due to make six monthly repayments of 
£164.84. I understand Mr J hasnt been able to fully repay this loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks that Lending Stream did 
were proportionate and these showed the loan was likely affordable for Mr J. 
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He reiterated that he had a significant amount 
of debt already when Lending Stream lent to him and so he couldnt afford the loan 
repayments. He thinks it was happy to lend to him whilst knowing he was desperate for the 
loans. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and have explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr J provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr J said he had a monthly income of £2,500 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
£1,600. Lending Stream also looked at some information from a credit reference agency. But 
this didnt show that Mr J had any significant financial problems. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to say that Mr J could afford the loan 
repayments, given what it found out at the time of sale. 
The crux of Mr Js objection to the lending is that he feels Lending Stream should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. But 
given the amounts borrowed against his income, and that that it was the start of a lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Lending Stream should have looked into his 
finances in more detail. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr J mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for this loan 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Mr Js complaint about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman