The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mishandled his subject access request (SAR) and 
withheld his data.
What happened
Mr S made a SAR to Lloyds in mid-2018. After receiving his data around three months later, 
he complained that his mortgage had been changed to interest only and that the further 
advances had also been taken on that basis. Lloyds said it wouldn't consider the complaint 
as it had been raised too late. Mr S referred the matter to our service. An ombudsman here 
decided we couldn't consider the complaint due to the time limits that apply to using our 
service.
In late January 2019, Lloyds sent a final response addressing Mr S's concerns about what 
information was included in his SAR response. It didn't uphold the complaint, and advised 
that he had six months to refer the matter to our service. It reiterated the outcome and 
referral rights in February 2019 when he responded with further concerns about the SAR.
Shortly after, we sent Mr S our ombudsmans decision that we couldn't look into the 
mortgage complaint. It referred to a call note which he says was missing from the SAR 
response. He contacted Lloyds about this. It responded in early July 2019 under the same 
reference as his SAR complaint. It said it couldn't provide a reason why he didn't receive the 
note  but it was too late for him to refer the complaint to our service. That was incorrect. He 
had around three weeks left of his six-month referral period.
Lloyds then issued a further final response in August 2019 acknowledging the error and 
offering £25 compensation. This used the same complaint reference and gave new referral 
rights. But when Mr S then referred the matter to our service, Lloyds said it was out of time. 
Our investigator disagreed, given the incorrect referral information and the change in 
outcome/new referral rights in the most recent final response. He concluded that we could 
consider the complaint  but that £25 compensation was fair.
Lloyds accepted this  but Mr S didn't. He said more compensation was due for his time, 
effort and stress pursuing his cases. So I'm making the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion our investigator reached. I've explained why below.
When Mr S responded to our investigator, he expressed concern that we hadn't addressed 
the content of his specific claims. I want to reassure Mr S that Ive taken everything hes told 
us, and all the information hes sent us, into account when reaching my decision. If I dont 
DRN-1290676refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, thats not because I havent seen or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont think I need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr S 
doesn't take this as a discourtesy. Its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
When our service finds that a business has done something wrong, we consider whether this 
caused the customer any loss. In this instance, Mr S says he wouldn't have wasted so much 
time bringing cases against Lloyds, based on limited information, if it had been more 
transparent and honest. He says information was missing from the SAR - such as the call 
note which our ombudsman mentioned in her decision.
Mr S has been detailed and thorough in his review of his data. And Lloyds doesn't dispute 
that the note was missing. It just says it cant provide a reason for this. I haven't seen 
anything which persuades me that Lloyds manipulated or deliberately omitted evidence from 
the SAR. But, on balance, I accept there were errors with the SAR and subsequent 
complaint - such as the missing note and the incorrect referral information.
Ive thought about the impact this had. As our investigator has pointed out, it doesn't appear 
that Mr S lost out financially. The main impact hes mentioned is pursuing his cases. 
Although he wants Lloyds to compensate him for this, it was his choice to pursue the 
complaints. I note he was aware that Lloyds considered the mortgage complaint to be out of 
time when he referred it to us. And he wouldve had some knowledge about the mortgage 
from his recollections and the information Lloyds did provide in response to the SAR.
Our services approach  in the context of compensation for non-financial harm  is to think 
holistically about the overall impact of the errors. In this instance, I agree that Lloyds should 
compensate Mr S for his confusion and frustration due to the handling of his SAR and 
subsequent complaint. But I'm not persuaded it would be fair to award Mr S more for 
choosing to pursue his cases. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the £25 compensation 
Lloyds offered is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S. But, for the reasons given above, I wont be 
awarding more compensation or directing Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should 
pay Mr S £25. This should be done within 28 days of being notified by us of Mr S's 
acceptance of my decision, failing which interest will accrue at the simple rate of 8% a year 
from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman