DRN-3802418
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc blocked his business debit card on many occasions.
(I know Mr A has many other concerns about Lloyds behaviour, but this final decision is 
solely about his complaint that Lloyds continues to block his card.)
What happened
Mr A told us:
Lloyds has failed to provide him with a debit card that works at all times. It has 
repeatedly prevented him from using his business debit card to withdraw cash, even 
when he provided the correct PIN.
This has been a longstanding issue, which has cost his business thousands of 
pounds. He has also spent thousands of hours trying to sort it out. 
Lloyds has behaved badly in respect of many other issues  ranging from fraud, theft 
and embezzlement through to professional negligence and product mis-selling. He 
has raised more than 20 complaints with Lloyds, but it continues to treat him unfairly.
To resolve this complaint, he would like Lloyds to promise that his debit card will 
always work unless he has reported it lost or stolen. He would also like Lloyds to pay 
him significant compensation.
Lloyds told us:
It accepts that it has sometimes placed blocks on Mr As business debit card, but it is 
satisfied that it did so correctly.
It is committed to security, and to protect both itself and its customers transactions 
might be subject to additional checks.
It will continue to apply its security procedures in relation to Mr As account, and that 
might mean Mr As card is blocked in future.
Mr A may wish to move to another bank, but he should be aware that all banks have 
their own security procedures.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He thought Lloyds 
had been complying with its legal and regulatory requirements when it blocked Mr As card.
Mr A did not accept our investigators opinion, and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. I know 
Mr A would like me to comment on Lloyds behaviour more generally, but in this final 
decision I can only look at the specific issue of the blocks on Mr As card. I will not comment 
here on any other issues. 
It is clear that Mr A is extremely frustrated by the fact his card was blocked, and I am sorry to 
hear about all the problems he has had. I can see that Lloyds is not giving Mr A the level of 
service that he wants. But I can only uphold a complaint if I think a bank has done something 
wrong  and here, I think Lloyds has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably.
I know my decision will further disappoint Mr A, but I will not order Lloyds to guarantee his 
card will always work. Lloyds is right to say that it is required to apply security procedures. 
Those procedures are not just for Mr As benefit  they also exist to protect Lloyds, and to 
prevent financial crime. I acknowledge that the blocks Lloyds applied caused Mr A 
considerable inconvenience, but I still think it was reasonable for Lloyds to apply them.
Mr A cannot opt out of Lloyds security procedures, and they must apply to him as well as to 
all of Lloyds other customers. Mr A may decide that he no longer wishes to be a Lloyds 
customer, but so long as he does remain a customer of Lloyds I consider that it is entitled to 
apply its security procedures to his use of his debit card.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong in respect of the card blocking issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman