DRN-2339060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1997 Mr and Mrs W bought a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for
a mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy gave them protection against accident,
sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed so the complaint
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws policy document, so Ive relied 
on one from the nearest available date.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was optional, and they had to
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs W accept they agreed to take out the PPI, but say they did 
so as the bank recommended it. I will look at the suitability of the banks recommendation 
shortly. But Im satisfied that Lloyds made it clear the policy was optional. The options to 
select or decline it were set out on their mortgage application with equal prominence. And 
they indicated that they wanted it. So I cant uphold their complaint on this point.
As theyve said, Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to make sure it was 
right for them. They say they didnt need it but based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time I think the PPI was suitable. Theyve told us Mr W was entitled to 
six months' full pay and six months' half pay if he was sick and Mrs W was entitled to six 
months full pay.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for 
up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave them up to 12 
months redundancy cover. This would have allowed them to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment(s) giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. They 
told us they had savings worth at least three months salary. But the PPI would have allowed 
them to use any savings they had to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs.
I can see from their mortgage application they also had life insurance but that offers a 
different kind of protection and wouldn't help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same 
way as PPI.
Mr and Mrs W were borrowing a large sum over a long period secured on their home. Given 
the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover wouldve been 
useful for Mr and Mrs W if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
Mr and Mrs W say they werent given enough information at the time of the sale. I agree its 
possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. But what I need to decide in order to conclude the policy was mis-sold is 
if it's most likely they would have made a different decision with better information.
I dont know when Lloyds first made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably
priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. Mr and Mrs W say a lump sum 
covering the cost of their insurance was added to their mortgage, so they ended up paying 
interest on it. And as the PPI didnt cover them for the full term of their mortgage they ended 
up paying interest on a policy they wouldnt have been able to claim on. But this is 
inaccurate. They paid monthly for their PPI, not upfront. So they could cancel the policy at 
any time without incurring any further cost. 
I also dont know that Lloyds pointed out the main things the PPI most likely didnt cover. But 
Mr and Mrs W dont appear to have been affected by any of those things (such as the type of 
employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So on balance I dont think its 
most likely better information wouldve changed their decision.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman