DRN-4470996
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr M with a loan for £4,000.00 in March 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of £194.09.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said that the monthly payments for the loan were unaffordable 
to him and caused him hardship so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ms application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr M did have some previous difficulties 
with debt in the form of defaults and a county court judgement (CCJ) recorded against him 
 albeit the vast majority of these were historic. But Mr Ms active unsecured debt total at the 
time of the application was low in comparison to his income. And although the vast majority 
of his more recent accounts were relatively well maintained, it is clear that Mr M had recently 
defaulted on a credit account. 
Given that this is the case I would have expected 118 118 Money to find out a bit more about 
Mr Ms actual living expenses before it decided to lend to him. After all, Mr M had recently 
proved unable to repay a creditor and I think that this called into question the accuracy of the 
amount that 118 118 Money had arrived at for Mr Ms living expenses. That said, I dont think 
that obtaining further information on Mr Ms actual living costs would have made a difference 
to 118 118 Moneys decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr M has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Mr M says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information about his living costs shows. And having looked at his bank statements I know 
why Mr M was in the level of difficulty that he was. However, I dont think that 118 118 
Money knew about this. I also accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of 
checks Mr M appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  its 
possible  but by all means not certain - it may have reached a different decision.
But given the circumstances here, and what 118 118 Money needed to find out, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank 
statements for Mr Ms accounts  especially as bank statements werent the only way that 
118 118 Money could find out about Mr Ms living expenses in the first place. It could have 
instead asked for copies of bills etc. And therefore finding out about Mr Ms living expenses 
wont have led 118 118 Money to determine the loan payments to be unaffordable.  
Furthermore, as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was providing to Mr M, he had a low 
amount of active debt and there wasnt a history of Mr M obtaining funds and then returning 
for more, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan 
would not increase Mr Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful either. As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when 
deciding to lend to Mr M. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I would remind 118 118 Money of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in 
the event that it intends to collect the remaining payments on the agreement and Mr M is 
experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman