DRN-2577223
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
Mr C is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr C.
What happened
Mr C found water entering his home when a glass panel slipped on his atrium roof. Mr C 
contacted SOL to make a claim for storm damage. SOL appointed a loss adjuster. A short 
while later, the loss adjuster appointed an independent expert to investigate the cause of 
loss. Following this, SOL declined the claim due to issues with the design of the atrium roof 
and some fittings. It said although there had been high winds, the roof should have been 
able to withstand this.
When Mr C complained to SOL about the decision, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim. It said no further information had been provided to alter its decision. SOL said 
although the policy covered storms, it didnt cover wear and tear, poor maintenance, faulty 
workmanship or poor design. It said the independent experts report highlighted issues with 
the roofs construction, which were the cause of the damage.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
expert appointed by SOL identified a number of issues with the roof and, as a result, it was 
reasonable to decline the claim due to gradual deterioration caused by poor design.
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive checked the weather conditions for the relevant time period. 
Having done so, I didnt see any wind speeds in the weeks before the claim that would be 
considered severe enough to be storm conditions. However, I note there were some strong 
winds, although not at speeds that would be considered storm conditions, in that period. Mr 
C has also said that because of the specific coastal location of the house, the nearest 
weather station didnt necessarily give an accurate sense of the wind speed where he lived.  
So, although I think the answer to the first question is no, I will consider the other questions 
in order to see if this affects my view, given the concern Mr C has raised.
For the second question, the reported damage was that a glass panel had slipped on the 
atrium roof, allowing water to enter Mr Cs home. My understanding is that this was because 
the panel was lifted by winds. I dont think a storm would typically result in appropriately 
secured glass panels slipping or lifting. So, I think the answer to this question is no.
However, for completeness, Ive also considered the third question. Ive looked at the report 
by SOLs expert. This identified a number of issues, including that the fixings used to secure 
the glass panels werent strong enough and had gradually deteriorated over time and that 
the panels were unable to withstand the basic wind load that would normally be expected. 
The expert concluded that the structures design and fittings were inadequate and led to the 
damage. He also spoke to the builder who carried out the temporary repair, as well as a 
previous repair. The report included a detailed assessment of the roof, the issues identified 
with its construction and its current condition, as well as photographs. I note that the expert 
also considered the location of Mr Cs property, including in relation to the location of the 
nearest weather station. Having done so, he considered that the damage was the result of 
pre-existing issues rather than wind conditions.
Im aware that Mr C has raised issues with experts findings. Mr C disagreed that there was 
evidence of deterioration to the roof. Mr C also said some trees had been removed that 
previously acted as protection for the house in the form of a wind break. As part of this, Mr C 
provided a statement from the glazing company who carried out the repair, which said:
The problems appear to have occurred since the removal of the trees in front of the building 
and the change in weather conditions especially with the severe storms and wind conditions 
which have occurred in recent years.
Given the company seems to have said the damage followed the removal of the trees and 
the change in weather conditions over a period of time, this doesnt persuade me that the 
damage was the result of a one-off storm event, which would need to be the case for it to be 
covered under the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, in my view, SOLs expert carried out an appropriate 
assessment and provided evidence to support his findings. Although, the damage may have 
become apparent during high winds, I think the weather conditions highlighted pre-existing 
issues. So, I think it was reasonable for SOL to decline the claim on the basis of gradual 
deterioration as a result of issues with the design and construction. As a result, I dont 
require SOL to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman