DRN-3375032
The complaint
Mr H complains that he couldnt link his Chip Financial Ltd (Chip Financial) savings account 
to an account he held with another bank. He says this prevented him from making a deposit 
into the savings account. Mr H also complains about the service he received when trying to 
raise this issue with Chip Financial Ltd.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr H opened up a Chip Financial account. He intended to us the Chip+1 
savings account and transfer £10,000 into this as it was offering a 1.25% interest rate. 
However, he was unable to link the Chip Financial savings account (the savings account) to 
another account he held with a different bank (the current account). This meant he couldnt 
make the transfer. 
Mr H tried to contact Chip Financial about this but encountered difficulties. The first few 
people he spoke to were unable to resolve the issue for him, so he raised a complaint but 
said he received no response.
Mr H then brought his concerns to our Service. We contacted Chip Financial to let it know 
Mr H wished to raise a formal complaint. 
Chip Financial then looked into things. It explained that the connection between the current 
and savings account couldnt be made because Mr H was abroad, and its platform provider 
requires that the IP address be located in the UK in order to make this connection. It offered 
to refund a £1.50 fee Mr H had paid in connection with the account and offered to pay Mr H 
£20 as a gesture of goodwill. It also explained that it had responded to Mr Hs messages 
about his complaint, but it hadnt received any response from him  it provided a transcript 
which showed outgoing messages in April and May 2021 but received no response from 
Mr H. Chip Financial also apologised.
Mr H remained unhappy so asked our Service to look into things. He stressed that 
Chip Financial was able to take its fees from the same current account. 
After reviewing the evidence our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Initially he said that 
Mr Hs access was restricted because his IP address and residential address was outside 
the UK. The Investigator noted the T&Cs meant Mr H was never eligible for the savings 
account. 
However, Mr H explained he was a UK resident. Our Investigator then provided a further 
view in which he agreed Mr H was a UK resident and eligible for the savings account. 
But that Chip Financial was entitled to make decisions about how it operates and so it hadnt 
acted unfairly. 
Mr H disagreed with our Investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, my decision wont address every point or 
comment made by either Mr H or Chip Financial. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like 
to reassure all parties that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve 
provided to our Service. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Id also like to clarify our Services role. Which is to consider the particulars of Mr Hs 
complaint and whether Chip Financial has made any mistakes. If so, we would then try to put 
Mr H back into the position he would have been in had mistakes not been made. Its clear 
that Mr H feels strongly about this complaint but we dont regulate financial businesses and 
so we dont have a role, for example, in saying what processes Chip Financial should follow.
Chip Financial has now explained that the reason Mr H couldnt link his savings account to 
his current account is because he was attempting to do so from an address outside the UK. 
Its said the IP address being used by its customer must be within the UK in order for this 
process to work. And as a business it is entitled to make a decision to operate in this way.
Mr H has told us he wasnt told this was the case and it isnt mentioned in the terms and 
conditions (T&Cs) of the account. But T&Cs are not exhaustive  so they dont (and cant) 
cover every scenario. The T&Cs do clearly state that customers have to be a UK resident to 
have the account  so its clear that its customer base is limited to those who reside here. 
And whilst I recognise that you can be a UK resident and spend time abroad, I still wouldnt 
necessarily expect this restriction to be covered in the T&Cs. Whilst access to this 
functionality will be prevented when a customer goes abroad, because the customer resides 
in the UK there will be a limited window where access is restricted. I appreciate this was an 
unfortunate situation for Mr H given he often spends lengthy periods of time abroad, but I 
cant say that Chip Financial has done anything wrong in choosing to operate its accounts in 
this way. And whilst Mr H was temporarily prohibited from linking his accounts, he would 
have been able to resolve this when he returned to the UK.
I appreciate Chip Financial was able to take its fee payments from the current account. 
But this is a different process. To explain, the fees are taken using Mr Hs debit card details 
from his current account. However, deposits into the savings account require a connection 
with Mr Hs current account directly (via his sort code and account number). So, I can see 
why one connection was possible when the other was not.
Mr H has also stressed that some of the deposits he was going to make into the savings 
account are still showing as pending in his current account. Chip Financial has confirmed 
these pending payments ought to have cleared after a few days but said this was something 
Mr H would need to raise with the bank responsible for his current account. It confirmed 
Mr Hs savings account was now closed  so these payments cannot be taken. 
And given this is ultimately an issue with the information displayed on Mr Hs open current 
account, it seems logical to me that Mr H would need to raise this with the provider of that 
account. Ive also seen nothing to persuade me Chip Financial has done anything wrong 
here in the way it has processed these payments. 
Moving to Mr Hs concerns about the customer service he received. I think Chip Financial 
attempted to assist Mr H with his queries  Ive seen email exchanges about this. 
I appreciate Mr H doesnt think the staff were particularly helpful. But having read the emails, 
I think theres evidence the staff tried to address his questions and provided further information on the account and how it operates. I do recognise that the reasons for Mr Hs 
access problems werent identified despite this communication  and Mr H feels they ought 
to have been. But Mr H was clearly frustrated by some of the questions asked, for example 
when he was asked to clarify what he meant by "Chip app talking to [his other bank]".  
Yet Mr H then refused to elaborate despite being asked to by the person trying to assist him. 
Having read the email chain, and the explanation from the customer service assistant, I dont 
think this was an unreasonable question to ask. So, it would also seem to me that Mr H 
wasnt giving Chip Financial all of the information it felt it needed in order to help resolve his 
problem. 
Mr H then encountered further delays when he raised a complaint about the matter. 
Mr H has told us he never received a response to his complaint, and I have no reason to 
doubt his account here. But Ive also seen evidence Chip Financial tried to contact him in an 
effort to resolve things on multiple occasions and it didnt receive a reply. So, whilst I 
recognise there was some sort of breakdown in communication here, Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me this was Chip Financials fault. And I can see that its apologised for this in any 
event. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Chip Financial has acted unfairly and so I 
wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr H has clearly found the entire process incredibly frustrating and Im sure it would also 
have been inconvenient to repeatedly try to resolve a problem that he now knows couldnt 
have been resolved whilst he was abroad. I appreciate my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H. But I would only ask Chip Financial take further action if I thought it 
had treated him unfairly. And for the reasons outlined in this decision I dont think it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman