DRN-1458094
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out to protect Mr D's credit card payments. It 
covered him for accident sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. But he did conclude Lloyds should 
pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium.
Lloyds agreed.
Mr D didn't agree. His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Lloyds has only provided limited evidence. Mr D says he did not receive enough 
information to make an informed decision.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D and he felt he had to take it in order to open 
the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr D's complaint.
Lloyds doesn't have a full record of the sale, which isn't surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. 
Neither party can say for sure when the PPI was taken out. The majority of policies were 
taken at the same time as the card application, so I think it's most likely in Mr D's case that 
he took the PPI in April 1995 when he applied for the card.
Mr D feels sure the bank recommended the PPI to him and so I've considered the case to 
the higher standard of an advised sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr D's complaint because:
Lloyds can't supply a copy of Mr D's credit card application form. But it has provided 
us with a sample of the form that, in all likelihood, Mr D would have completed. This included a separate section headed "Credit Card Payments Insurance" and Mr D 
would have needed to tick the box to confirm that he wanted it. Overall, and taking 
into consideration the paperwork that most likely would have been completed, I think 
it most likely that, although Lloyds recommended Mr D take out the policy, it made 
him aware that it was optional and that he chose to take it - although I can 
understand why he can no longer remember this.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He's told us he would 
have received up to six months sick pay from his employer and that he had some 
savings. But the PPI wouldve met his repayments for up to 12 months. So it could 
have been a useful benefit, in addition to his existing arrangements, if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident. It also covered him if hed become unemployed.
 
Ive taken into account that Mr D may have been able to rely on family to help him if 
he couldn't meet his credit card repayments. But this wasn't a guaranteed source of 
income, so doesn't change my conclusion.
Mr D says he doesn't recall receiving detailed information about the PPI. I accept its 
possible the information Lloyds gave him about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely, 
despite what he says now, that Mr D would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But, since the complaint was referred to us, Lloyds has agreed to pay back some of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Putting things right
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr D any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr D the difference between 
what Mr D owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr D 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman