DRN-2475076
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2015, Mr T applied for a Halifax mortgage through a broker. According to the electronic 
record of the application, the broker asked Mr T if hed had court judgements, and its 
recorded that Mr T responded negatively.
Halifax then discovered that Mr T had had a county court judgement (CCJ) some years prior. 
It declined his application.
Halifax also registered a fraud marker against Mr T with CIFAS. It looks like it did not carry 
out any further checks or investigation before registering this marker, and did not tell Mr T 
about it at the time.
In 2019, Mr T complained about the marker, but Halifax declined to remove it. Our 
investigator also felt the marker was fair, as ultimately Mr T had given incorrect information 
on his application.
Mr T didnt agree. He explained that he hadnt thought the CCJ was relevant, as it was to do 
with an unrelated dispute from quite some time ago and had been paid off in full. He said it 
was an innocent mistake, made when answering a series of questions in quick succession 
without having much time to think about it. He says that had Halifax contacted him at the 
time to clarify the information, this whole matter could have been avoided. Mr T says that the 
marker is now preventing him from being able to open an account he needs. Hes asked for 
the marker to be removed.
I sent Mr T and Halifax a provisional decision on 2 December 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Halifax 
needed to have more than just a simple suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show 
that it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed 
or attempted, and that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
It is not in dispute that Mr T was asked about previous judgements and failed to mention a 
CCJ. The issue is whether Halifax had reasonable grounds to conclude that this was an 
intentional attempt to commit fraud.
Halifax does not appear to have made any significant investigation into the matter at the 
time. This is a point of concern. It is difficult for me to see how Halifax could be satisfied that 
Mr T intentionally tried to deceive it without really looking into the matter or trying to clarify 
the situation.
For example, the electronic record of the application appears to use a pre-set templated 
form, rather than being an exact record of what was discussed. So I cant say for certain how 
the mortgage broker phrased the question, or what emphasis was placed on it, or what 
Mr Ts exact answer was, and so on. Mr T says that the question was asked and answered 
in merely a couple of seconds, as part of a long list of questions, and so he didnt really think 
about his answer at the time. That seems really quite plausible.
Indeed, Mr Ts testimony has been consistent and plausible throughout the case. It seems 
reasonable that he could have made such an error without really thinking about it, not least 
with the context of the years that had passed since the judgement, and of why he may have 
thought the judgement wasnt relevant (albeit erroneously).
I am, of course, conscious that it is also a plausible possibility that Mr T intentionally tried to 
deceive Halifax. But that alone is not a good enough basis on which to register a CIFAS 
marker. Halifax needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern about the possibility of 
fraud. It needed to be able to reasonably show that this was fraud, and not merely a mistake 
or misunderstanding. But because of its lack of investigation at the time, I dont think its able 
to do that. So I am not persuaded that Halifax had sufficient grounds to apply this CIFAS 
marker, nor can I safely conclude that the marker is fair.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
30 December 2020. Neither Halifax nor Mr T sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Bank of Scotland plc needs to 
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint, and direct Bank of Scotland plc to remove the disputed marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman