DRN-3978919
The complaint
Mr M complains he was the victim of a purchase scam and that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do 
enough to stop that from happening or to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M complains he was the victim of a purchase scam involving three online transfers he 
made on 14, 17 and 18 February 2021 for £9,130.99, £3,000 and £6,829. He had wanted to 
buy two excavators (priced at 10,800 euros and 11,300 euros, including shipping) from a 
seller based in Sweden. Hed seen adverts for the excavators on a German website, having 
previously bought a digger from a seller via the same website. He transferred the money 
from his HSBC current account to an online account in his own name (held with a company 
Ill refer to as T), before transferring the funds to a beneficiary account (held with a 
company Ill refer to as S) based in Sweden.
Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam when he didnt receive the excavators and the 
seller didnt respond to his emails or calls. He asked HSBC to refund the money hed lost.
HSBC said it accepted partial liability for Mr Ms losses as it hadnt warned him about the risk 
of scams when hed made the payments. But Mr M didnt think a refund of only 50% was fair 
and complained.
HSBC maintained its position. It explained that as Mr M subsequently moved his funds 
onwards from his own online account with T, then this was the point of loss and so the CRM 
code wouldnt apply (which might otherwise have given additional protection in this type of 
situation). In any event, it said Mr M should be partially liable because he could have done 
more to ensure it was a genuine transaction such as asking to pay by credit or debit card, or 
to pay a deposit, both of which would have provided additional protection.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He stated hed checked the 
details of the Swedish company and it was VAT registered. Hed also checked the IBAN and 
BIC codes, which showed the account was held with a Swedish bank. He explained hed 
provided T with the name of the company account and the bank details.
He later discovered the name of the company didnt match the bank account details, but he 
wasnt warned about this at the time hed made the transfers. He explained hed taken out a 
loan from HSBC to pay for the goods and the loss has affected his mental health and caused 
depression.
I issued my initial provisional findings on 9 December 2022. I said that based on what Id 
seen, I was minded to find that:
- neither T nor S were parties to this complaint, and HSBC couldnt fairly be held responsible 
for the actions of T or S, so I couldnt consider the point raised by Mr M that T was at fault for 
having authorised the payments to the scammers account, especially when the name of the 
company didnt match with the account details.
- the CRM Code wasnt applicable because the payments had all gone to an account held in 
Mr Ms name, a scenario outside the scope of the code.
- based on HSBCs submissions, it appeared to me that it accepted it should have 
intervened to prevent the scam and that its failure to do so was material to the success of 
the scam.
- Mr M had acted reasonably when he decided to go ahead with purchase and 
corresponding payments.
- HSBC should reimburse Mr M in full for his losses.
I invited both parties to submit further information or arguments to allow me to consider what 
the fair outcome to this complaint should be.
HSBC said that while it had offered to pay Mr M 50% of the loss, it didnt accept that that an 
intervention would necessarily have led to the scams prevention. It further argued that T 
was in a better position to alert Mr M to the risks, so ought to carry a share of the blame for 
the resulting losses.
In light of these further submissions and arguments, I considered everything afresh and 
reached a different outcome.
My further provisional decision
I noted HSBCs comments that T had been in a better position to warn Mr M about the 
possible risks and perhaps should bear a share of the responsibility here, but I didnt 
consider this argument altered the fair outcome in this specific complaint.
HSBC didnt provide Mr M with a scam warning but it didnt actually agree that it ought to 
have intervened to a greater extent than a warning message, nor did it accept that the 
warning message would necessarily have resulted in this scam being avoided. As a starting 
point, banks are expected to process the payment instructions of their customer  that is a 
primary obligation. But as a matter of good industry practice, where there are grounds to 
suspect that the payment instruction might be likely to result in financial detriment to a 
customer through fraud or scam, then Id expect a bank to delay executing the instruction 
until the bank can reassure itself that such harm will not result.
I considered whether the payments Mr M sent to his account were ones HSBC should have 
had particular concern about. The first of the payments was for a larger sum than other 
payments within the previous year on Mr Ms account. But on the other hand, the payment 
was going to an account held in his name (which HSBC would have known), and hed 
previously made payment(s) to that account without issue. So arguably HSBC would have 
considered the payment, although relatively large, did not on the face of it present a greater 
risk than usual.
On balance, I was persuaded that this payment (and the further payments) would not have 
appeared to HSBC as indicative of the risk of fraud or scam. I didnt consider there was 
enough here for me to have expected HSBC to delay fulfilling its primary obligation to make 
the payment in accordance with Mr Ms instructions.
Even if I didnt reach this finding, I didnt think an intervention by HSBC would likely have prevented the scam. I said this because I thought Mr M would likely still have gone ahead. 
Neither he nor HSBC could have readily identified that this was a scam prior to Mr M 
incurring the loss, and while it may have been possible to carry out further checks, I wasnt 
persuaded there are checks that would have brought the scam to light before Mr M had sent 
the payments he did.
So, unfortunately, I didnt think HSBC caused Mr Ms loss in failing to intervene when he 
made the first payment (or subsequent payments). I said I was sorry to hear Mr M lost such 
a significant amount of money and I know this has been a stressful experience. But for the 
reasons I explained, I didnt think HSBC needed to do anything in addition to what it has 
already offered to settle this complaint, and I couldnt fairly ask it to reimburse Mr M by more 
than the 50% it has already offered him.
Developments
Mr M responded to say that he doesnt accept the findings in my provisional decision. He 
has said that the facts of his case haven't changed, but Ive arrived at a different conclusion 
upon pressure from HSBC. Hes said this was APP Fraud and that he should be reimbursed. 
Hes pointed out that HSBC is a signatory to the "voluntary scam code of 2019 and must 
adhere to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is concerned that Ive reached a different conclusion and yet none of the facts of the 
case have changed, so I will explain why I changed my view. Initially, HSBC said it accepted 
it should have intervened when Mr M tried to make the first payment, but that hed 
contributed to his own loss. Based on this, I upheld the complaint because I didnt agree the 
settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence. 
Responding to my first provisional decision, HSBC raised the issue of causation, which I 
hadnt previously considered because, based on HSBCs submissions, it had appeared to 
me that it accepted it should have intervened to prevent the scam and that its failure to do so 
was material to the success of the scam.
In considering the issue of causation, I reviewed whether HSBC should have intervened 
when Mr M tried to make the first payment, and I didnt think it should. This is because the 
payment was going to an account held in Mr Ms name (which HSBC would have known), 
and hed previously made payment(s) to that account without issue. Because of this I didnt 
think HSBC had missed an opportunity to intervene to prevent the fraud and, unfortunately, 
this changed the outcome of the complaint.
Mr M has also said HSBC is a signatory to the voluntary scam code of 2019. But as I said in 
both my provisional decisions, the CRM Code wasnt applicable because the payments had 
all gone to an account held in Mr Ms name, a scenario outside the scope of the code. 
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud, therefore I dont think it 
needed to do anything in addition to what it has already offered to settle this complaint. Im 
sorry to hear Mr M has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman