DRN-2901445
The complaint
Miss M has complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has 
dealt with a claim under her home contents policy.
What happened
Miss M was evicted from a rental property. Following this, Miss M made an insurance claim 
to Admiral. She said her landlord had removed her possessions from the property and left 
them outside. As a result, they had been damaged or stolen.
Admiral investigated the claim and made some payments to Miss M for her contents. Miss M 
followed up with Admiral on a number of occasions to find out the progress on her claim. 
She was also concerned that Admiral had disposed of some of her possessions.
Miss M complained to Admiral. When Admiral replied, it said it had acted correctly by 
disposing of items due to their condition. It said once it had completed the claim 
investigation, if it accepted the claim, it would consider these items. Admiral accepted there 
had been a number of issues with the claim handling, which included it incorrectly advising 
she had £5,000, instead of £50,000, of cover, delays in progressing the claim and some 
communication issues. It had also responded late to the complaint. Admiral offered Miss M 
£20 towards the cost of calls, £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused during the 
claim and a goodwill payment of £50 for the issues with responding to the complaint.
When Miss M complained to this service, our investigator said there were a number of 
issues with how the claim had been dealt with, which had caused Miss M inconvenience. 
Although the claim had been ongoing for some time, Admiral had been progressing the claim 
and it had a duty to validate it. She also said it was fair for Admiral to consider the items that 
were disposed of if it validated the claim. She said she thought the compensation offered by 
Admiral was fair in the circumstances.
As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss Ms claim is ongoing. My decision only relates to the issues dealt with up 
to the point that Admiral issued its response to the complaint Miss M raised. Any issues after 
that date dont form part of my decision and would need to be raised by Miss M in a new 
complaint to Admiral.
I can see this claim has been ongoing for some time and that this will have caused Miss M 
concern and inconvenience. Admiral accepted that it could have dealt with some parts of the 
claim better, including some of the times when Miss M wanted an update on progress. Miss 
M was also given incorrect information when she was told the policy had a £5,000 limit. This 
was because the policy hadnt been correctly set up on Admirals systems to show that the 
policy limit was actually £50,000. So, I think Admiral could have dealt with some of these 
issues better.
Miss M is also concerned about Admiral disposing of a large number of her items. I can see 
that Admiral made a list of all of the items disposed of, that these were listed as beyond 
economic repair and that Miss M signed a form agreeing to their disposal. Admiral has said 
the items were wet and mouldy which could make them a health risk. 
I can understand this meant Miss M was then left without those items, including items such 
as clothing, which Im aware will have caused her difficulties. But, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Admiral disposed of anything it shouldnt have or that Miss M wasnt aware the 
items were going to be disposed of. Admiral said it would consider the items disposed of 
when it had made a decision about whether to accept the claim. Admiral has also made 
some payments to Miss M, which total about £6,500. Im aware that this may be less than 
the value of Miss Ms possessions. But I think Admiral has acted reasonably in the 
circumstances, including because it hasnt yet made a decision on the claim overall.
Im aware that Admiral also made a number of enquiries about the claim, including with Miss 
M, her landlord and the police. It was reasonable for Admiral to investigate the 
circumstances of the claim in order to validate it. I can see that this has taken some time, but 
that Admiral has taken steps to progress the claim in order to make a decision on it. I can 
understand that Miss M would be concerned about the amount of time this has taken, but I 
havent seen anything that causes me to think Admirals actions were unnecessary or 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
So, thinking about the claim, I can see there were issues with how Admiral dealt it, including 
Miss M sometimes having to chase for updates and Admiral having the wrong policy limit in 
its records. However, I think the compensation Admiral offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances and I dont require it to do anything further in relation to the issues that led to 
the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Admiral doesnt need to do anything 
further in relation to the issues raised as part of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman