DRN-2703596
The complaint
Mrs H complains about charges that were applied to her credit account with Studio Retail 
Limited. She wants all the charges to be refunded.
What happened
Mrs H tells us that charges were applied to her account by Studio even after she told them 
she was in financial difficulties. She didnt think that this was fair. And she said shed like 
Studio to refund all the charges.
Studio issued a final response letter in which it said that it had provided revised payments 
terms for Mrs H. And that it hadnt charged interest on numerous statements even when 
shed not repaid the full balance. It said the charges that had been applied referred to 
occasions when minimum payments hadnt been made or no payments had been received.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Studio 
had acted with forbearance and had set up payment arrangements and waived interest 
charges in trying to help Mrs H.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs H has experienced financial difficulties. And I appreciate that the long - 
term health problems she experiences means that such issues are likely to have an even 
greater impact upon her. I accept that shes been doing her best to make repayments and 
that it isnt always easy for her to make arrangements.
Mrs Hs account with Studio is one which allows the customer to choose whether to pay the 
full outstanding balance or by instalments. And where the consumer chooses to pay by 
instalments, interest is payable. If the minimum instalment payment is not repaid each month 
then a charge can also be applied.
When a business becomes aware that a customer is in financial difficulties its required to 
treat that customer with forbearance and due consideration. Theres no fixed method by 
which this is to be achieved. As the circumstances of each individual borrower is different, a 
business needs to tailor its actions to take account of the customers needs.
Amongst many examples, this might involve reducing or freezing interest, reducing the rate 
of payment, or temporary suspensions of payments. But its up to each business to decide 
what steps are taken to assist each customer.
Mrs H has asked for all charges to be refunded since the account commenced several years 
ago. But I see that Studio dealt with a similar complaint in 2017. And at that time it refunded 
two £12 charges as a gesture of goodwill. I can only look at charges that were not subject of 
this previous complaint.
In practical terms, this means Im looking at a period from 2018 until March 2019 when the 
account was sold by Studio. 
Ive looked at the notes which accompany the account statement for this period. Charges of 
£12 were made in four months from March 2018 to June 2018, totalling £48.
At this time there was a balance outstanding on the account of over £1,600. And whilst Mrs 
H was paying by instalments no interest was being applied. The charges that were applied 
were in those months when payments were made late or not made.
From June 2018 the notes show that Mrs H was paying £35 per month towards the balance 
 which was below the minimum payment which would ordinarily have been required. And I 
cant see that any further charges or interest were applied thereafter. The notes indicate that 
during this period Mrs H confirmed that she could afford the £35 payments. In March 2019, 
the debt was sold to another business which meant that Studio was no longer the owner of 
the debt. 
Of course, theres always more a business might do, but thats not the issue. Overall, I find 
that Studio has acted fairly and took appropriate measures to assist Mrs H. Its waived 
interest charges and entered a payment arrangement which was affordable for her. And it 
regularly checked the affordability of the ongoing arrangement. It notified Mrs H of the sale of 
the debt. The charges that were applied were in line with the terms of the agreement and I 
cant say it wasnt fair and reasonable for Studio to apply them.
I understand that Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision. And Im not aware of what 
arrangements are in place with the new debt owner. But if Mrs H is experiencing any 
problems with making repayments, wed also expect that business to treat her fairly and with 
forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman