DRN-2167075
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what happened after he called a legal and tax helpline, provided as 
part of a legal expenses policy held with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr H benefits from home insurance with Aviva which includes cover for legal expenses. The 
policy offers a Personal Legal and Tax Helpline. After his father died Mr H called the 
helpline for advice on a tax matter relating to his estate. 
He says no tax advice was provided and he was simply advised to contact HMRC. He asked 
the helpline adviser to investigate further but a follow up call didnt answer his question. Mr H 
also says he was given incorrect information about a form he needed to complete. And when 
he called the complaints number listed in the policy booklet that number was itself wrong. 
Aviva says the helpline only offers a basic tax information service and it would pass on 
Mr Hs comments about how this was described for review. It agreed the complaints number 
was wrong and said this had been corrected. It said it would pay Mr H £50 in recognition of 
the inconvenience hed been caused. 
Our investigator thought the description of the helpline in the policy document gave Mr H an 
expectation that it would provide more than a basic service. But he thought it likely Mr H 
would always have needed to call HMRC for assistance so didnt think this had delayed the 
progress of his inquiry. He didnt think the incorrect complaint number had caused significant 
delay either. And he thought the payment of £50 that Aviva had agreed to make was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said Aviva hadnt provided the contracted service and giving wrong 
advice about the form he needed to fill in could have led him to incur unnecessary costs. He 
said if hed been given correct advice on the helpline hed have been able to move matters 
forward more quickly and said Aviva should now fund advice from a qualified tax adviser. He 
was unhappy Aviva hadnt changed the description of the helpline in the policy booklet or 
notified customers of the correct complaints number. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr Hs call to the helpline followed the sad passing of this father. So I can understand 
why this would have been a difficult time for him and it would have been especially 
frustrating for him not to receive the assistance he believed he was entitled to. 
And I agree describing the helpline as a Personal Legal and Tax Helpline (without further 
caveat) suggests those dealing with queries would have some experience and knowledge of 
tax matters. In fact it only offers a basic tax information service. I dont think that matches the 
description in the policy terms. Its also not in dispute that the number listed in the policy 
booklet for complaints was incorrect (though I understand this has now been amended). I 
think Aviva should have been clearer about what the helpline would offer and should have 
included the correct number for complaints in its policy document. So Ive gone on to think 
about how thats impacted on Mr H. 
Mr H says the failing by Aviva delayed the progress of his tax query. And I accept that if the 
helpline had offered a service equivalent to what he might have received from a tax adviser 
he might not have needed to pursue matters with HMRC. But the failing Ive identified isnt 
that Aviva should have provided that service but that it didnt make clear the service it was 
offering was much more limited than that.  If it had made that clear Mr H would have had a 
clearer understanding of what advice might be provided but I think its likely hed still have 
needed to seek further guidance from HMRC. 
So I dont think the failure to properly describe this service has delayed the progress of his 
query. And, as the helpline would never have provided advice equivalent to that Mr H might 
receive from a qualified tax adviser, I dont think thats something Aviva does need to 
provide. I understand his concern that incorrect advice provided on the helpline could have 
led him to incur additional costs but fortunately that didnt happen in this case. 
However, I do accept Mr H was given a raised expectation the helpline would offer a service 
it didnt. And he was also caused some inconvenience by the incorrect complaints number 
being included in the policy booklet. But while I appreciate this was a particularly distressing 
time for him I think the £50 Aviva has already offered does enough to recognise the impact 
on him of whats happened here. 
I know Mr H is concerned Aviva didnt notify policyholders of the change to the complaint 
phone number (and hasnt said it will do so in future). However, while Id expect 
policyholders to be notified of a significant change to policy wording (so one which might 
impact their decision to enter into the insurance contract) I dont think thats the case here. 
Theres no change to what Aviva is offering; simply a correction to contact details in the 
event a complaint needs to be made.
Mr H also says Aviva hasnt amended the description of the helpline in its updated policy 
information. I can see Aviva did say it would review this but ultimately it is for that business 
to decide on the wording of its own documentation  and to take responsibility for resolving 
any issues this might create. But the relevant complaint handling rules (contained in the 
Financial Conduct Authority handbook at DISP 1.3.2A) say firms should ensure lessons 
learnt as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively applied in 
future complaint handling. So Aviva will no doubt want to reflect on what Ive said in this 
decision when making future amendments to its policy booklet. 
Finally Mr H has suggested these issues have breached or invalidated the insurance 
contract between him and Aviva. But its for the courts to determine whether a contract is 
legally enforceable or not. As required by our rules Ive decided this case by thinking about 
whats fair and reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances  and Ive explained my 
reasoning in this decision. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Aviva Insurance Limited has 
already done enough to put things right. I understand it has already paid Mr H £50 but if that 
isnt the case it will need to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman