DRN-1887361
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt make him aware of his policy excess which 
was payable on his claim when he accepted a cash settlement.
Mr R is represented in this complaint, but for ease of reference Ill refer to him directly.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr R raised an escape of water (EOW) claim through his home insurance 
policy underwritten by AXA. After the claim was approved, AXA paid a cash settlement in 
resolution of the claim.
In October 2018 AXA contacted Mr R for payment of the outstanding policy excess of £500. 
Mr R didnt respond so AXA referred the excess payment to a debt collector. Mr R 
complained to AXA. He said he was informed by its appointed agent (who Ill refer to as S), 
that there would be no deductions to the cash settlement he accepted in resolution of the 
claim, and had he known this, it may have changed his decision. 
AXA reviewed Mr Rs complaint and agreed there had been an administrative error and 
details of the excess werent passed to S. It acknowledged this information should have 
been provided to Mr R at the time. In recognition of this it offered him £150, which would be 
used to reduce the unpaid policy excess, leaving a payment due of £350. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service for review. He said 
he had been told the settlement would not be reduced in any way. Mr R added he worked 
long hours and would find it difficult to get two more quotes to possibly increase the value of 
the settlement. So he decided to accept it on the basis there wouldnt be any more 
deductions. Mr R was also unhappy AXA were now pursuing him for the excess via a debt 
collector.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
concluded the policy excess was a contractual payment and therefore remains payable. She 
thought the £150 payment offered by AXA was reasonable for the administrative error and 
mis-communication. She also considered AXAs promise to review any quotations Mr R 
decided to send it to be fair. And she found AXA had given Mr R a reasonable opportunity to 
pay the excess, so it was reasonable for it to pursue the debt via a third party.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators findings. He confirmed he was aware the policy was 
subject to an excess in the event of a claim being made. He said he was fully reliant on S to 
calculate a fair settlement figure and was clearly told no further deductions would apply  
even when he challenged the final settlement figure. Mr R said AXA has already admitted its 
own error in not advising S of the excess. And he is confident that if he provided his own 
quotations for the repair work it would be significantly more than the settlement offered.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked AXAs terms and conditions to see what it would reasonably be expected to do 
when looking to settle a claim under a buildings and contents insurance policy. 
Under the heading Building Section 2  Escape of Water it states:
What is not covered
1. The amount of the excess shown in your policy schedule
And under the heading Contents Section 4  Escape of Water it states:
What is not covered
1. The amount of the excess shown in your policy schedule
Ive also reviewed Mr Rs home insurance schedule dated 22 January 2018 which details the 
cover in place at the time of the claim. Under both the heading Buildings cover and 
Contents cover it states:
Excesses
An excess is the amount you must pay as the first part of each and every claim made under 
this section. 
Voluntary excess (in addition to the compulsory excess): £250
Escape of water (in addition to the voluntary excess): £250
When Mr R initially contacted AXA to raise his claim, it has said he was made aware of the 
excess that would be due on his claim. And Mr R has said he was aware the policy was 
subject to an excess in the event of a claim being made. So what I need to determine is if 
AXAs actions in not forwarding the excess deduction to S has disadvantaged Mr R in any 
way.
I acknowledge Mr R questioned S and was told there would be no deductions to his 
settlement figure, but I dont think that in itself means the excess is no longer payable. I say 
this because the policy excess makes up part of the contract Mr R entered into at the start of 
the policy. And while there was mis-information around it being due, this doesnt remove Mr 
Rs obligation to pay it.
Im aware that had Mr R been given the correct information at the time, it may have led to 
him making a different decision. But I based on everything Ive seen, I dont think AXAs 
actions have disadvantaged Mr R. Our role as a service is to put Mr R back in the position 
he wouldve been in if the error hadnt happened. So if I assume Mr R would have declined 
Ss offer with the excess deduction included, he still would have had to provide quotations to 
AXA in order for them to review the settlement figure. 
Mr R has said he could get higher quotes for the repair work required. Mr R has also said he 
works long hours, sometimes 14 to 18-hour days, and it was difficult for him to obtain 
quotations and liaise with AXA. However, if Mr R wishes AXA to review its cash settlement offer, it will need evidence of work carried out to do this, so I dont find AXAs approach 
unreasonable here. So, it is up to Mr R if he now looks to supply it with quotations of the 
work, or receipts or invoices if the work has now been completed.
So having considered everything, I find AXAs offer of £150 to be reasonable for the upset 
caused by its error. I also find its decision to offset this against the outstanding excess 
balance to be fair given Mr R is still required to pay it. 
Mr R is unhappy with AXAs decision to assign his excess payment to a debt collector. While 
I acknowledge Mr Rs stance here, it appears from the evidence that AXA has given Mr R 
reasonable opportunity to pay the outstanding excess. And it was only after a period of no 
communication that AXA decided to assign the payment to a debt collector. AXA has 
confirmed that the debt collector has been notified of the reduced policy excess payable of 
£350. Again, I dont think AXA was unreasonable in its approach here. 
In summary, I find both AXAs offer to review its cash settlement, and its compensation 
payment reasonable, so I dont require it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I find AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer of compensation is reasonable, 
so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman