DRN-2794244
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Bamboo lent Mr S a loan of £5,000 in April 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oBamboo says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr S. It 
says it asked Mr S about his income, used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to 
calculate his living costs and carried out a credit search. It says Mr S declared his 
monthly income as £1100, it used £234.60 as a figure for his living costs and worked 
out that he had credit commitments of £195. It says after the repayment for this loan, 
Mr S had £473,31 disposable income each month. It says based on what it gathered 
the loan was affordable.
oThis loan was due to be repaid over 60 monthly instalments of around £197. Given 
the length of the loan commitment and size of the loan, I would have expected 
Bamboo to ask Mr S about his monthly expenses in more detail including verifying 
some of the information he provided. I can also see from the credit search that Mr S 
had only recently taken most of his unsecured credit out within 2 months of asking for 
this loan. He obtained a £4000 loan in March 2018 and then used most of an 
overdraft limit on an account opened by him in February 2018. So, I think on seeing 
this, it ought to have prompted Bamboo to find out more. I cant see that it did this or 
verify any of Mr Ss expenditure and so I dont think its checks went far enough.
oMr S has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from Bamboo at the time of the loan 
as I think his bank statements provide a clear picture about his actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, Mr S was gambling, and a 
significant amount of his expenditure was going on this. Mr S spent £1900 in January 
2018, £600 in February 2018 and £1300 in March 2018. It is clear from seeing this 
that Mr S was having problems managing his finances. I think if Bamboo had carried 
out further checks it would have uncovered this and not given him the loan.
oIn the circumstances, Bamboo lent to Mr S when it shouldnt have, and it needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
While I think Bamboo shouldnt have lent to Mr S, I think it will be fair for him to repay the 
capital of £5,000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Bamboo should:
add up all the payments made by Mr S, if it exceeds the capital amount of £5,000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr S, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above. 
Bamboo must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Bamboo Limited to put
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman