DRN-1700957
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. Were unreasonable to reject 
a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss A, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss A made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
There are certain conditions that need to be met for a claim to be made under section 75. 
Halifax havent disputed that these conditions applied so Ill not consider them in too much 
detail here. But I have thought about whether the value of goods falls within scope of the 
agreement and whether there was a valid relationship between the debtor, the supplier and 
the creditor. The value of the goods is within scope and Im persuaded that there was a valid 
relationship for the same reasons the investigator set out in her view of 26 March 2020.
Miss A says that when she collected the goods from her neighbour the box was open, wet 
and damaged. Its Miss As suggestion that this was what caused the damage to the dress 
she returned to the supplier.
Miss A says it was the cape and not the dress that was damaged and that she didnt remove 
the cape from the packaging. She says when she tried the dress on it didnt fit and needed to 
be returned.
Its her suggestion that the cape was damaged because the box was when it was delivered 
to her neighbour.
The supplier says that it has marks on the lining and the skirt has lost its shape as if it has 
been worn. 
Halifax have rejected Miss As claim because they have noted that the suppliers website 
says, returns can be madewithin 14 days, unworn and undamagedthe items will be 
checked for wear and tear.
The supplier has provided a photograph of the damage and Halifax dont dispute their 
findings.
I dont think Halifax have been unreasonable here. The supplier have provided evidence of 
the damage and Miss A hasnt collected the dress to assess the damage and to dispute the 
suppliers findings. Miss A says the damage must have happened when the parcel was 
delivered to her neighbour because the box was wet and damaged. Unfortunately, she 
hasnt any photographs to demonstrate that was the case and I think, on the evidence I 
have, that its unlikely. I say that because I can see Miss A told the supplier in an email dated 
25 June 2019 that she had put the items back in the box they were delivered to her in and 
returned them. I dont think that would have been likely if the box was damaged. And I think 
if there were concerns at that point that the box was damaged Miss A would have referred to 
that in the emails she sent to the supplier; but she didnt.
I understand that Miss A hasnt had the dress returned even though she has paid for it. The 
business told Miss A in an email they sent to her in July 2019 that they would hold the dress 
for 28 days. It seems unlikely that they will therefore still have the garment, but I dont think 
thats something that Halifax needed to consider when thinking about the section 75 claim. I 
cant see there was a breach of contract here as the business offered to return the dress 
they said had been returned to them in a damaged condition.
Ive also considered whether Halifax should have pursued a chargeback for this item. As the 
dress had been delivered to Miss A the merchant would have been likely to defend the claim 
and I think Halifax could reasonably consider a chargeback would not be successful under 
the scheme providers rules.
Im therefore not persuaded that Halifax were unreasonable when rejecting this claim and 
Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman