DRN-1564055
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC and its administration of their buy 
to let mortgages. They originally wanted the mortgages extended to the original end date of 
2022, but after moving to another lender, wanted the product fees paid in 2016 refunded and 
the early repayment charges (ERC) written off.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had three buy to let mortgages with Barclays in 2013, due to be repaid in 
full in 2019. In 2016, they switched products to change the interest rate through a broker. 
If repaid early, an early repayment charge (ERC) would be charged. They paid the 
product fee for the new products.
Mr and Mrs S later said that they thought the length of the mortgage terms had been 
extended in 2016 as the products they took out were five year products, though the 
remaining term was actually two years and ten months. They were unhappy to be told 
that the mortgages were due for payment in full by the original date.
Mr and Mrs S through their financial adviser complained to Barclays about the issue.
Barclays said that buy to let mortgages were commercial loans, non-regulated and non-
advised. This meant that it didnt remind customers when the term was due to end and 
they shouldve been aware of the end date of the mortgages from the offer they accepted 
in 2013. Barclays pointed out that the broker shouldve known the rate and product 
selected when he made the application in 2016 and checked the length of the 
mortgages, but accepted that the 2016 switch application shouldnt have been 
successful as the mortgage terms hadnt been extended. It denied mis-selling the 2016 
products, pointing out that the broker made the applications and didnt check the length 
of the mortgages.
Barclays later said that it would extend the mortgages to 2022 to match the end of the 
products and paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its error in 
accepting the applications. It then offered another £300 compensation in addition 
(inclusive of earlier offers) for the trouble and upset caused and the delay in resolving the 
matter (a total of £500). Barclays also offered to cover any associated costs of 
Mr and Mrs S approaching a new lender if they stayed with Barclays.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. In the meantime, theyd 
moved their mortgages to another lender and felt that they shouldnt have to pay the 
ERC and the product fees from 2016 should be refunded. 
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld and said 
that Barclays offer of £500 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided this complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
Mr and Mrs S have said that they told their broker in 2016 to extend the mortgage 
terms. But that wasnt the application Barclays received  it received an application to 
change the mortgage products to a five year product only. Mortgage terms arent 
extended by making such applications, something which a broker should know 
(though its understandable for a member of the public to be unaware). A specific 
application to extend the term must be made to enable the lender to properly 
consider it. The broker in letters to Mr and Mrs S told them that an application to 
switch products had been made, but theres nothing about a term extension 
application. The product fees were paid in order to benefit from the interest rate 
offered, so I dont think its fair or reasonable for them to be refunded.
Equally though, Barclays shouldnt have accepted an application for a five year 
product for mortgages with less than five years to run, as it accepts. And I can see 
that in its letters to Mr and Mrs S telling them the applications have been successful, 
there was no mention of when the mortgages ended; the letters said that the 
products ended in 2022. I can easily appreciate why Mr and Mrs S thought that the 
mortgage terms had been extended as the letters are misleading  the products cant 
last longer than the mortgage itself as theyre just a wrapper setting the interest rate 
for the underlying mortgage. I think Barclays actions in accepting an application for a 
five year product for mortgages lasting less than this was unfair and unreasonable.
The real difficulty in this complaint is that Mr and Mrs S asked for the mortgages to 
be extended to last as long as the products, and this was agreed by Barclays. I agree 
that it didnt deal with the complaint well and the suggestion that the ERCs should be 
charged even after the mortgages ended wasnt fair or reasonable. But before 
Mr and Mrs S moved to a new lender, Barclays did change its position to a much 
fairer and reasonable one and told them that the terms would be extended as 
requested. The extension was only agreed after the original end date of the 
mortgages, and this shouldve happened much sooner as it was clear Barclays had 
made a mistake and the fair way forward was to extend the terms as Mr and Mrs S 
had asked.
From the outset, Barclays told Mr and Mrs S that it would not waive the ERCs. The 
ERCs were clearly set out in the 2016 offer accepted by Mr and Mrs S, and the fact 
that they would be charged up to 2022 was repeated several times. Its worth 
remembered why ERCs exist  they deal with the estimated loss a lender believes it 
will suffer if the mortgage is repaid early. ERCs are part of the price a customer pays 
to benefit from the interest rate offered by the product. And the mortgages are 
commercial loans, which means that Mr and Mrs S are treated as business people.
 I have to think about what wouldve happened if Barclays hadnt made the two 
mistakes Ive found to be unfair and unreasonable. If it hadnt accepted the switch 
applications in 2016, Mr and Mrs S are likely to have applied for a term extension as 
thats what they say they wanted to do (and thought that theyd done) in 2016, and 
taken out five year products which wouldve had ERCs attached. If Barclays had 
extended the terms earlier in 2019, the ERCs would still have been due if 
Mr and Mrs S moved to a new lender. I dont think its fair or reasonable for me to 
require Barclays to write off the ERCs in all the circumstances.
 As Mr and Mrs S paid off the mortgages and moved to a new lender, Barclays offer 
to repay the wasted costs of making such applications no longer applies. And it was 
Mr and Mrs S choice to move lenders, even though Barclays did agree to extend the 
mortgages.This leaves the issue of compensation for trouble and upset. Barclays has paid £200 
and offered another £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused (including 
by accepting applications allowing the products to last longer than the underlying 
mortgages) and the delay in resolving the matter. Money never truly compensates for 
trouble and upset, but £500 is a significant sum and I think it does fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr and Mrs S in all the circumstances. This reflects my 
finding that it is fair and reasonable for them to pay the ERCs and product fees, and 
so compensation for any trouble and upset caused by this issue isnt appropriate.
Putting things right
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mr and Mrs S another £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mr and Mrs S another £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failings. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman