DRN-2877587
The complaint
 Miss H believes Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, acted irresponsibly 
by agreeing four loans shed applied for.
What happened
 In February 2018, Miss H took out a £3,000 loan (Loan 1) with Everyday, to be repaid over 
24 months with repayments of £216.00 a month. This loan was repaid in June 2018. In 
August 2018, Miss H took out a second loan with Everyday for £3,100 (Loan 2), to be repaid 
over 30 months with repayments of £190.20 a month.
In March 2019, Miss H took out a third loan with Everyday for £4,200 (Loan 3), to be repaid 
over 36 months with repayments of £231.14 a month. Part of the funds borrowed were used 
to repay Loan 2. In June 2020, Miss H took out a final loan with Everyday for £7,000 (Loan 
4), to be repaid over 48 months with repayments of £293.89 a month. Part of the funds were 
used to repay Loan 3.
Miss H complained that Everyday didnt act responsibly when approving these loans  she 
didnt think the checks Everyday did were thorough enough. She said she already had debts 
with high repayments as well as being a guarantor for her ex-partners loans, and that these 
werent taken into consideration. So she didnt think Everyday shouldve approved the loans. 
Everyday agreed they shouldnt have approved Loan 2, but they felt theyd acted reasonably 
by approving Loans 1, 3 and 4. Miss H didnt agree, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that the checks Everyday carried out for Loan 1 were reasonable and 
proportionate  theyd checked Miss Hs income and expenditure from her bank statements, 
and theyd carried out a credit search. And from the information available to Everyday, the 
loan was affordable to Miss H.
The investigator also said that the checks Everyday carried out for Loan 3 were reasonable 
and proportionate, but she thought the bank statements showed a lot of high value transfers 
to Miss Hs ex-partner, whom Ill call C; as well as very large monthly phone bills and a 
payment to a loan that wasnt accounted for in their affordability calculations. She thought 
that Everyday shouldve looked into this and, if they had done, theyd have found that Miss H 
was a guarantor for a loan with C, which C wasnt paying all of the time, so Miss H had to.  
And she said that Everyday would also have found out that C was gambling a lot using Miss 
Hs phone, which is why the monthly bills were so high. Because Everyday upheld the 
complaint about Loan 2 because of excessive gambling, and because Miss H only had 
around £230 a month disposable income with which to pay Loan 3, the investigator said that 
Everyday shouldnt have approved Loan 3 either.
The investigator was satisfied that Everyday did reasonable and proportionate checks for 
Loan 4. And Miss Hs financial situation had improved by the time of this application. She 
didnt have any defaults or CCJs, and Loan 4 was to be used to repay other credit, which 
would reduce her overall outgoings. After taking all of this into consideration, the investigator 
said that Miss H had sufficient disposable income, and she thought this loan was affordable 
for Miss H.
So the investigator said that Everyday should refund anything Miss H had paid over and 
above the amount shed borrowed for Loans 1 and 2, plus 8% simple interest a year.
While Everyday agreed with the investigator, Miss H didnt. She said that the refund shed 
receive from Loans 2 and 3 wouldnt be sufficient to repay the outstanding balance on Loan 
4, and she didnt think this was fair. She said she was still a guarantor for Cs loan, and if C 
didnt pay this, then she couldnt afford to pay the Loan 4 payments. So she didnt think Loan 
4 shouldve been approved and that, if loan 4 is not being removed I at least would expect 
the interest to be removed. 
Miss H also said that her second income wasnt guaranteed and, when the loans she was 
guaranteeing were taken into consideration, she didnt have any disposable income. So, 
shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Everyday didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Hs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Based on what Ive seen, its clear to me that Miss H and Everyday agree that Loan 1 
shouldve been approved, but Loans 2 and 3 shouldnt. Because of this, my decision will 
concentrate on whether Loan 4 shouldve been approved or not.For Loan 4, Ive seen that Everyday verified Miss Hs income and employment from her April 
2020 payslip, and from a letter from her employers dated 23 April 2020 as Miss H had 
changed employers in April 2020. 
Miss Hs also provided Everyday with her bank statements for the periods 2 March 2020 to 
29 May 2020 (current account) and 28 February 2020 to 27 May 2020 (savings account). 
These show that her average income for April and May 2020 was £1,373.65 a month from 
her main employment. And Miss H also had a second job, from which she received an 
average of £164.50 a week (£712.83 a month).
The credit search Everyday carried out showed that Miss H was up to date with all of her 
payments, and that she didnt have any CCJs or defaults. This also showed that Miss H had 
three loans (including Loan 3), for which she was paying a total of £880 a month, and five 
credit cards or mail order accounts, with a total outstanding balance of £4,474. Loan 4 was 
to be used to repay Loan 3 as well as all of the credit cards and mail order accounts.
In addition to the credit commitments, the bank statements showed that Miss H paid her 
mobile phone bill, life cover, pet insurance and car tax and insurance - £222.37 a month. 
Finally, Miss H said she paid her parents up to £150 a month for board.
Taking all of the above into consideration (with Miss H having to repay Loan 3 as part of the 
terms of taking Loan 4, as well as paying 5% of the credit card/mail order balance each 
month); this would leave her with a disposable income of £841.55 a month, from which to 
pay the Loan 4 payment of £293.89 a month. And this would increase to £1,065.25 a month 
once the credit cards and mail order accounts were repaid from the proceeds of Loan 4.
Based on this, Im satisfied that, Everyday carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when they assessed the application for Loan 4. And these showed Loan 4 was affordable to 
Miss H. So, Im also satisfied that Everyday acted responsibly when approving Loan 4.
Miss H has said that her second income wasnt guaranteed. Ive seen that, in the 13-week 
period covered by the bank statements, she only received this income for 10 weeks. And, 
Ive taken this into consideration when calculating the weekly average. However, even if this 
income was completely discounted (which I dont think it should be because Miss H was 
receiving this on a regular basis), then Miss H would still have sufficient disposable income 
from which to pay Loan 4.
Whats more, in taking out Loan 4, Miss H was replacing the Loan 3 payment of £231.14 and 
the £223.70 payments to her credit cards and mail order accounts, with a single payment of 
£293.89  a saving of £160.95 a month. The bank statements and credit search show that 
Miss H was able to maintain these payments on a monthly basis, which shows they were 
affordable for her. So Loan 4 put her in a better financial position, not a worse one.
Finally, Miss H has said that, if she had to make the payments to Cs loans, then she 
wouldnt have any disposable income from which to pay Loan 4. But the bank statements 
dont show that Miss H was making these payments at the time she applied for Loan 4, nor 
have I seen anything to show me that she was guaranteeing payments of over £1,000 a 
month  her disposable income once Loan 4 had gone through and all of her credit cards 
and mail order accounts settled. 
Because of this, Miss Hs comments dont change my view that Everyday acted responsibly 
when approving Loan 4, and I wont be asking them to do anything more about this loan.Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Everyday acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
 Miss H has had the benefit of the money she borrowed for Loan 2 and Loan 3, so its only 
fait that she should have to repay this. But, because Everyday shouldnt have approved 
these loans, they should refund all of the interest and charges on these loans.
So, Everyday should add up the total of money Miss H received from Loan 1 and Loan 2 and 
deduct the payments he made to these two loans from this amount.
a) If this results in Miss H having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to her, along with 8% simple annual interest, calculated from the 
date of the overpayments to the date of the refund*.
b) If Miss H had received more than she paid, Everyday should attempt to arrange a 
suitable and affordable repayment plan.
Everyday should also remove any negative information recorded on Miss Hs credit file, 
relating to Loans 2 and 3 only.
*HM Revenue and Customs require Everyday to take tax off this interest. They must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Hs complaint. And Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans, should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman