DRN-3618187
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he returned a van after the early settlement of the lease agreement.
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire agreement in November 2019 and he ended the agreement early in 
November 2021. He says hes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied 
when he returned the van. Mr C says the repair work was excellent and the van had been 
extremely well looked after. Mr C told us:
In October 2021, prior to returning the van, he arranged to have some minor damage 
to the rear panels repaired because he didnt want to incur any charges;
he spent £468 and used the services of a company that specialises in all types of 
bodywork services;
he was delighted with the quality of the repairs  the work had been completed to a 
very high standard;
the van was collected in November and at this time no inspection took place, but five 
weeks later he received an invoice for £442.16 for damage to the van;
he questioned the damages with MBFS and it agreed to remove a charge of nearly 
£180 for rust from the invoice, but it wouldnt agree to remove or reduce any of the 
other charges even though he provided details of the repairs that had been carried 
out before the van had been collected;
Mr C says the charges are inconsistent; MBFS has charged him for repairs to one rear panel 
but not the other, even though he had both of them repaired. 
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said if the vehicle is not in good condition, repair and 
working order when it is returned to us, or if any additions, alterations or replacements have 
been made which we reasonably consider affect the value of the vehicle, then you will have 
to compensate us for any loss that we suffer. 
MBFS said it provided Mr C with a copy of its Vehicle Returns Standards when he first took 
out the finance agreement and it was also available online. It said this document detailed the 
expected return condition of Mr Cs van. And it said Mr C had had ample opportunity to 
familiarise himself with its fair wear and tear expectations and this provided him with the 
opportunity to have any repairs carried out.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards. And it confirmed that 
charges totalling £442.16 remained payable. 
Mr C disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the hire agreement and the photographs submitted by MBFS to 
support its position and he thought the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and 
tear guidance and, as a result, was chargeable.
Mr C disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the hire agreement, signed by Mr C, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the van. It clearly sets out what the acceptable conditions are, 
with examples, and what conditions are unacceptable. Ive read this carefully, and Im 
satisfied that Mr C was responsible for returning the van in good condition, but the question 
is whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies five areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable - outside 
fair wear and tear:
1. Fuel flap painted  dirt in paint   £22.07
2. Offside rear quarter panel  poor repair £208.02
3. Rear tailgate  scratched £178.60
4. Rear tailgate badge  scratched   £17.40
5. Rear tailgate badge  scratched   £16.07
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS Vehicle Return Standards when deciding what is fair and reasonable for 
MBFS to charge Mr C.
The Vehicle Return Standards, signed by Mr C in November 2019 says, all cab and body 
exterior panels and internal trims to be free of damage.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. The relevant 
guidance says:
Obvious evidence of poor repair such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish and ill-matched paint is not acceptable.
Repaired chips, scratches and dents outside the fair wear and tear tolerance are 
acceptable provided the work is completed to a professional standard by repairers 
who can provide full warranty on their work.
Scratches and abrasions of 50mm or less are acceptable provided the base metal or 
material is not exposed or rusted.
Ive looked very carefully at the photographic evidence that MBFS provided, and Im satisfied 
that the five areas of damage identified exist and are damage outside fair wear and tear. 
Both of the badges on the tailgate are damaged; the tailgate itself is scratched to the base metal; and the paintwork on the rear offside panels appears to be substandard. So, I think 
the charges have been applied fairly.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mr C to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman