DRN-3835626
Complaint
Ms R has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams) irresponsibly 
provided her with a number of catalogue shopping accounts despite the fact that shed 
previously defaulted. 
Background
Ms R had seven catalogue shopping accounts with J D Williams in total. The following 
accounts were opened on the following dates:
Account A  Opened May 2012 
Account B  Opened March 2016 
Account C  Opened April 2016 
Account D  Opened May 2016 
Account E  Opened October 2017 
Account F  Opened January 2019 
Account G  Opened September 2019 
Ive already, separately, explained to the parties why were unable to look at the complaint 
about account A. So weve not considered whether J D Williams acted fairly and reasonably 
when providing that account. 
J D Williams initially didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint about any of her accounts. However, 
when Ms R referred her complaint to us, J D Williams reviewed its position and on each of .
Account B  refund all interest and charges as a result of limit increases from June 2016
Account C  refund all interest and charges as a result of limit increases from July 2016
Account D  refund all interest and charges as a result of limit increases from August 2016
Account E  refund all interest and charges from the outset
Account F  not upheld so no refund
Account G  not upheld so no refund
One of our investigators looked at everything provided and thought that what J D Williams 
had agreed to do to put things right for Ms R was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of her case. So he didnt think that it needed to do anything further. 
Ms R disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans review of her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that J D 
Williams should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive kept all of this in mind when deciding Ms Rs complaint.
As J D Williams accepts that it shouldnt have provided any of the limit increases on 
accounts B to D and shouldnt have provided account E at all, I only need to consider 
whether the initial decisions to open accounts B to D and the decisions to provide accounts 
F and G, as well as the credit limit increases , were  fair and reasonable.
Accounts B to D
Account B was opened in March 2016 with a credit limit of £150, Account C was opened in 
April 2016 with a credit limit of £125 and Account D was opened in May 2016 with a credit 
limit of £150. The catalogue shopping accounts J D Williams provided Ms M with were 
revolving credit facilities. This meant that J D Williams was required to understand whether 
Ms R could repay around £150, £125 and £150 respectively within a reasonable period of 
time. 
I understand that J D Williams carried out a credit check before initially agreeing to provide 
each of these accounts. J D Williams has been unable to provide the output of its credit 
checks. But given these credit checks were carried out a number of years ago, I dont find 
this too surprising and Ive not drawn any adverse inferences from this.
What is important to note is that credit limits of £150, £125 and £150 would have required 
relatively small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable 
period of time. And the information Ive seen about Ms R circumstances does suggest that 
she had the funds to make these payments. As this is the case, Im satisfied that it wasnt 
unreasonable for J D Williams to have opened accounts B to D for Ms R. And I find that J D Williams didnt treat Ms R unfairly when it initially opened accounts B to D with respective 
credit limits of £150, £125 and £150 in March 2016, April 2016 and May 2016.
Furthermore, as J D Williams has already accepted that it shouldnt have increased the 
credit limits on these accounts and has offered to refund the extra interest Ms R paid as a 
result of these increases, Im also satisfied that J D Williams hasnt treated Ms R unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to accounts B to D.
Accounts F and G
J D Williams has said that it also carried out a credit check before providing each of these 
accounts. J D Williams hasnt provided the output of its credit checks before it provided 
these accounts. But I dont think that this matters too much because as Ms R had had a 
previous default on a J D Williams account by the time she was provided with these 
accounts. So I would have expected J D Williams to have found out more about Ms Rs 
income and expenditure before providing these accounts and increasing the respective 
credit limits.
Account F was opened, in March 2019, with a credit limit of £150 and the limit was increased 
six times until it reached £1,250 in November 2019. Account G was opened with a credit limit 
of £175, in October 2019, and the limit was increased by £100 to £275 in December 2019. 
I do have concerns about the fact that a significant number of credit limit increases were 
provided within such a short period of time  especially in circumstances where Ms R had 
defaulted on a previous J D Williams account. However, Ms R has provided about her 
financial circumstances at the time these accounts were opened and the credit limits were 
increased. 
And Ive reviewed this information with a view to understanding what further enquiries into 
Ms Rs circumstances, is likely to have alerted J D Williams to. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that further checks wouldnt have stopped J D Williams from providing these accounts or the 
credit limit increases as the information provided suggests that Ms R could have repaid what 
she owed within a reasonable period of time.
Furthermore, its also my understanding that significant balances  including some of the 
funds Ms R was lent  were written off on these accounts. As this is the case and wed 
normally say that a customer repays what they were lent and the lender only refunds any 
interest, fees and charges a customer paid as a result of credit they shouldnt have been 
provided with, I think its unlikely that Ms R lost out as a result of being provided with 
accounts F and G.   
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that J D Williams has 
treated Ms R unfairly in relation to accounts F and G either. And as it has already agreed to 
put things right for account E in the way I would ask it to in the event that I were to have 
upheld the complaint, overall Im satisfied that what J D Williams has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Ms R in fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case. 
Fair compensation  what J D Williams needs to do to put things right for Ms R
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that what J D Williams has agreed to do 
to put things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So it 
needs to:
rework accounts to B to D that from June 2016, July 2016 and August 2016 no 
interest should be charged on the amount of the credit limit increases from these dates onwards, to reflect the fact that no credit limit increases should have been 
provided on these accounts. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and
rework account E so that all interest, fees and charges added are removed, to reflect 
the fact that this account should never have been provided in the first place. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed
If outstanding balances remain on the accounts once these adjustments have been 
made J D Williams should contact Ms R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
these. If J D Williams considers it appropriate to record negative information on        
Ms Rs credit file, it should backdate this to the respective date it agrees it shouldnt 
have provided an account or credit limit increase.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
any outstanding balances, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms R, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, to an account, then J D Williams 
should remove any adverse information recorded about that account from Mr Rs 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what J D Williams & Company Limited has 
already agreed to do to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of    
Ms Rs case. So it should put things right in the way Ive confirmed and set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman