DRN-3677905
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with how long AXA Insurance UK Plc has taken to deal with a claim she 
made for an escape of water under a landlords insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead I will focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
However, the following details are relevant to my consideration:
On 28 February, three days after Miss C registered her claim, AXA wrote to her 
asking for further information about the claim circumstances and repairs undertaken. 
It also asked questions about whether Miss C was VAT registered, details about the 
valuation of the property and whether Miss C had any other insurance policy which 
covered the loss.
Miss C responded to the email the same day providing some invoices for the works 
completed/required and some pictures of the repairs already completed. However, 
she overlooked responding to AXAs additional questions. 
Nothing further happened on the claim, so Miss C Miss C sent further copies of 
invoices to AXA. She also called and emailed AXA to try and get an update on what 
was happening.  
AXA sent an email to Miss C on 20 April, thanking her for the images of the repair 
and asking if she could provide images of the initial damage/a report from the 
plumber on the cause of the leak. It also reiterated the outstanding information 
required from its email of 28 February. 
Frustrated by the progress of the claim Miss C raised a complaint. 
AXA issued its final response on 14 May 2022 admitting there had been delays and 
offering Miss C £250 compensation for the service shed received. It reiterated the 
information requested in its email dated 28 February remained outstanding. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA issued its final response to Miss Cs complaint on 14 May 2022, so my consideration in 
this decision only goes up to that date. 
I understand Miss C has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered carefully everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Miss C, and by AXA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that AXA has 
offered appropriate compensation for its errors. I do so for the following reasons:
Given Miss C responded to the email of 28 February on the same day, Im satisfied 
she received it and therefore was aware of the questions AXA had asked. 
Miss C may not have appreciated the relevance of the questions AXA had asked 
however as hers is a landlords policy, Im satisfied they are reasonable and relevant 
to the claim being assessed. And, it was entitled to receive the answers to those 
questions before validating and accepting the claim.
AXA chased Miss C for the outstanding information as I would have expected it to 
and reminded her of this when issuing its final response to her complaint. 
However, I do think there were avoidable delays on AXAs part. It could have been 
more proactive in chasing the information and responding to Miss Cs contact. AXA 
has recognised this and paid Miss C £250 compensation. I think this is a reasonable 
amount to reflect the trouble she was put to, so I wont be recommending it pay 
anything more. 
If Miss C is unhappy about anything that happened past the date of AXAs final 
response -14 May 2022, she will need to make her concerns known to AXA for it to 
issue a new complaint response. She may then, if she is unhappy with that response, 
refer a new complaint to this service.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Miss Cs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman