DRN-1352819
The complaint
Miss G has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G was involved in a minor accident in her car with another driver. The other driver didnt 
stop but she managed to take a picture of the car. She reported the incident to the AA, and it 
looked to hold the other driver at fault for the accident. 
But the claim took a long time to finalise and Miss G complained about this. And the 
subsequent increase in her premiums as the claim was eventually settled as a fault claim. 
So Miss G complained to the AA and then this service. The AA said that as the other car 
was on cloned plates it had no choice but to settle the claim. This was because it couldnt 
establish who the other driver actually was. But it did offer £100 compensation for its poor 
service and delay in dealing with the claim.
When our first investigator looked into things for Miss K she upheld the complaint. She 
thought that the AA hadnt established whether the other car was cloned or not. So she 
thought the claim should be marked as non-fault, any additional premiums should be 
refunded, and that Miss K should be paid a further £150 compensation for the delay and 
poor service. 
The AA didnt agree. It got an engineer to look at the photos of the other car and they were 
clear that the car was cloned. The engineer pointed out differences in the cloned car 
compared to the third-party car. The differences showed the cloned car was a different 
model although it was the same make. And so the third-party couldnt be identified. 
A second investigator looked into the circumstances surrounding the case and accepted that 
the AA had acted reasonably. As the other driver, that was responsible for the accident, was 
driving a cloned car and couldnt be identified the AA had no choice but to deal with the 
matter as a fault claim against Miss G. But the second investigator agreed that Miss G 
should be awarded a further £150 compensation as he agreed that the AA had delayed 
matters and provided a poor service.
As the complaint couldnt be mediated the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that Miss Ks complaint should be partly upheld, and she should be 
awarded compensation for the poor service provided. But I dont think that the AA has acted 
unreasonably in marking this as a fault claim. Ill explain why. 
It isnt the role of this service to decide liability as that is a matter for the courts. And the AA 
has the right to take over the settlement of the claim which is what it has done in deciding to 
settle Miss Gs claim as a fault claim.
But this services general approach is to look to ensure that insurers act fairly and 
reasonably in deciding whether to settle or pursue a third party. We expect insurers to make 
a reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident.
Ive carefully considered how the AA has handled this claim and although it clearly delayed 
matters and didnt manage Miss Gs expectations I think its conclusion is fair. I say this as 
Ive looked at the photos of the car that hit Miss G and the engineers comments about the 
car. And Im satisfied, unfortunately for Miss G, that the car that hit her was on a cloned 
number plate which meant that it wasnt possible to trace the details of the driver and for the 
AA to recover the costs incurred.
As our investigator outlined it can be difficult for consumers to understand what a fault claim 
is. A fault claim is a claim where the insurer is unable to recover their outlay. So, in Miss Gs 
case the AA tried to recover its costs from the other driver. But once it was established that 
the other car was on a cloned plate it couldnt trace the driver or recover its costs. This is 
then marked as a fault claim which doesnt mean Miss G was to blame for the accident, its 
just that the AA couldnt recover its costs as the driver of the other car couldnt be traced.
So, although I know this will be disappointing to Miss G, I cant say the AA has acted 
unreasonably in the way it has decided liability in this case.
However, I do agree that the AA shouldve provided Miss G with a better service. It has 
acknowledged that its investigation was delayed and couldve been better, it feels that £100 
compensation is fair. However, I dont think that takes account of the fact that it shouldve 
managed Miss Gs expectations better about the prospects of recovery. And I can see it 
suggested to Miss G she may be able to pursue the driver of the cloned vehicle through 
another avenue when it was clear that she couldnt. Plus, it has acknowledged that it 
shouldve pushed harder for information from the third party and been more proactive during 
the early stages of the investigation. So I agree with the two investigators who have looked 
into this case and think a further £150 compensation feels fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss G £250 (total) in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman