DRN-3648119
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC). He 
asks that the ERC is refunded.
What happened
Mr L had a mortgage with Santander. Hed been trying to sell his property without success. 
Mr Ls interest rate product expired in November 2021, and he took out a new interest rate 
product using Santanders online service.
Mr L received an offer for the property a few days later. He asked Santander to release him 
from the product and allow him to revert to the variable rate until he sold the property. Mr L 
says he wasnt told there was no cooling off period, and he didnt receive any documents 
about the terms of the product. 
Our investigator said Mr L took out the product online, without advice. Santander said it 
posted the product offer to Mr L and this was also available to him online. The product offer 
said Mr L had 14 days to decide whether to accept the offer, but he couldnt cancel the 
contract after hed accepted it. Our investigator said when Mr L accepted the product he 
agreed to the terms, including the ERC. 
Santander paid £50 for not calling Mr L about his complaint, which our investigator said was 
fair.
Mr L asked how the 14-day period worked with the posted/online product offers and whether 
this was a cooling off period. He said he didnt receive the product offer by post and 
Santander should provide proof of postage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr L took out a preferential interest rate product in November 2021. The product included an 
ERC which applied until February 2024. 
Mr L says its unfair for Santander to apply the ERC. He says he wasnt made aware of it. He 
says there should have been a cooling off period after he took out the product, and he wasnt 
told that there wasnt. And Mr L also says Santander should have exercised leniency given 
hed only just taken out the product when he received an offer for his property.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to refund the ERC. Ive explained 
why below.
Santander wrote to Mr L on 3 November 2021 when his previous product expired. This letter 
said Mr L could repay the loan while it was on the standard variable rate without paying an 
ERC.
Mr L selected a new product online on 13 November 2021. Santander says hed have seen 
information about when it was appropriate to take out a new product online. This includes if 
you arent moving home within six months. Santander had given Mr L consent to let his 
property. While Mr L wasnt moving home, he was hoping to sell the property. I think this 
should reasonably have alerted him to the possibility that taking out a new product online 
might not be right for him. 
The product offer says its available until 27 November 2021, so Mr L had two weeks to 
decide whether to accept the offer. It also says when you accept the offer, you wont have 
the right to change your mind and cancel the contract. I think Santander made it clear there 
was no cooling-off period after the offer was accepted.
The ERC was clearly set out in the product offer in the form of a table. Mr L agreed to this 
when he took out the product. 
Santanders records show Mr L accepted the product offer online on 13 November 2021  
the same day that he chose the product. The product was applied with effect from 13 
November 2021.
Santander says the product offer was available online for Mr L to review before he could 
accept it. It says it also posted a copy. If Mr L wanted to review a hard copy, he would 
reasonably have known hed need to wait for this to arrive by post. 
Mr L says the documents werent available online and didnt arrive by post. Mr L had taken 
out products previously. I think hed have known that Santander would issue a document 
setting out the terms. And given he was trying to sell the property it would have been 
reasonable for him to check whether there was an ERC. On balance, I think the product offer 
would have been available on-line, and Mr L chose to accept the product before the offer 
documents could have arrived by post. But if Mr L was unable to view the offer on-line, I 
think he ought reasonably to have contacted Santander before accepting the product. I dont 
think Santander was responsible for him taking out a new interest rate product without first 
reading the terms (and especially whether there was an ERC).
Mr L says other mortgage providers offer cooling off periods and he thought this was 
required for all financial products. However, thats not the case. As Ive said, the product 
offer was clear that Mr L couldnt change his mind after accepting the offer.
When Mr L says he expected a cooling off period, presumably hes saying he wouldnt have 
taken out the product if hed known there wasnt a cooling off period. I dont find Mr Ls 
argument reasonable. Mr L took out a product with an ERC payable until February 2024. I 
dont find it credible that hed have taken out this product on the basis hed be able to cancel 
it if he received an offer within 14 days, but wasnt concerned about the ERC if he received 
an offer during the weeks and months after this. 
I appreciate that Mr L is upset and frustrated that he received an offer for his property so 
soon after taking out a new product, and as a result had to pay an ERC. But I dont think that 
Santander made an error or treated him unfairly. It follows that I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Santander to refund the ERC.
Santander paid £50 for poor service when dealing with Mr Ls complaint. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require it to do more.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman