DRN-2439719
The complaint
Mr S complains (through his son Mr A) that Calpe Insurance Company Limited mishandled
his claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In late March 2019, Mr S bought a car at an auction. It was in a damaged condition. He paid 
about £14,240.00 including auction commission.
Through an insurance intermediary, Mr S took out a motor policy under which Calpe was the 
insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Calpe, I include the intermediary,
claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Calpe responsible for their actions.
In early July 2019, the vehicle was in a road traffic accident. The accident caused damage to
the front and right-hand side of Mr Ss vehicle (as well as damage to others). Calpe told Mr S
his vehicle was a Category B write- off (fit only for breaking into parts). Calpe estimated the
pre-accident value of the vehicle as £11,250.00.
Mr S complained to Calpe and to us that the vehicle wasnt category B. We have dealt with
that complaint separately.
Mr S complained to Calpe that its valuation wasnt enough to purchase a replacement
vehicle. Calpe wrote a final response dated 2 April 2020 describing the vehicle as a partially-
repaired salvage vehicle. Unhappy with that, Mr S brought his complaint to us the same day.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
based on a starting valuation of £22,500.00, less £8,421.33 to repair the pre-incident 
damage, a fair valuation was £14,078.67. He recommended that Calpe should increase its
valuation amount to £14,078.67 less any policy excess.
Mr S agreed with the investigators opinion  although he asked about additional 
compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Calpe on 8 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
£11,250.00 wasnt a fair pre-accident value.
£14,240.00 was a fair pre-accident value.
Calpe shouldve paid that value less the £3,000.00 excess  a balance of 
£11,240.00.
Calpe wouldve sent Mr S £8,250.00 while he pursued his complaint with us. And it 
may have paid him that sum recently, in which case there is a balance to pay
of £2,990.00.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Calpe, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S:
1. £11,240.00 insofar as it hasnt already paid him that amount for the pre-accident
value of his vehicle; and
2. simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% on the balance of £2,990.00 from 2 April 2020 
to the date of payment. If Calpe considers that HM Revenue and Customs requires it 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr S accepts the provisional decision.
Calpe disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
The price paid at auction isnt a fair valuation.
Calpe isnt aware that Mr S is a mechanic or engineer. It is possible that the full 
extent of the bad repairs wouldnt be noticeable to the average person.  The costs of 
rectifying those substandard repairs wouldnt have been known. Calpe doesnt agree 
that - because he was aware of all the damages and the cost of repairs - Mr S paid a 
fair market price for the vehicle. 
Based on its expert evidence, Mr S overpaid for the vehicle. This is not the 
responsibility of the insurer.
Calpe doesnt believe insurers are required to take auction commission into account 
when valuing a vehicle.
It disagrees that repairs required to a vehicle only affect the value of the vehicle by 
half the value of the repairs needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive looked at a purchase invoice, details of repairs, trade guide valuations and
expert evidence from engineers instructed by Calpe and by Mr S.
Calpes liability to Mr S was limited to the pre-accident value of the vehicle, less the policy
excess. As the excess was £3,000.00, Mr S would receive £3,000.00 less than the pre-
accident value of the vehicle.
I will consider whether Calpe followed a fair method of determining the pre-accident value of
Mr Ss vehicle. In particular I will consider the figures in the motor trade guides.
Ive noted the make and model of the vehicle. From the experts reports, I see that it had firstbeen registered in summer of 2017. So I find that it was due for its first MOT test in the
summer of 2020.
From an invoice, I see that someone (likely Mr S) bought the vehicle at an auction in late
March 2019 for about £14,240.00 including auction commission. I think that price reflected
that the vehicle had serious accident damage that needed repair. The invoice contained the
following note:
Category S
From that note, I find that the vehicle had suffered structural damage and needed to be
professionally repaired. Theres no evidence that the vehicle was recorded on any database
as a write-off or total loss.
From the later reports and photographs, I find that the damage was to the front and left-hand
side of the vehicle.
I havent seen any evidence that anyone had done repairs (of any quality) before the 
auction.
In the usual course of an auction, there would be competing bidders and the bidding would 
proceed in increments. So the final bid is usually one increment more than a competing 
bidder is prepared to pay. Each bidder ought reasonably to know that  in order to buy the 
vehicle  he or she would have to pay the amount of the final bid plus auction commission. 
I find it reasonable to say that the damaged vehicle was worth £14,240.00 to Mr S. I find it 
likely that the vehicle was worth slightly less to another bidder.
Mr S had some repairs done. He provided us with a body shop invoice for £1,400.00 dated 5
April 2019. It recorded that the vehicle had been fixed and full re-sprayed. But the invoice
lacked the detail I would expect in such an invoice. And the invoice didnt show any
qualifications or accreditations.
Mr S later provided us with further information from the body shop. That included the fitting
of two passenger-side doors and an airbag kit. The information said that customer supplied
all the parts.
But again, the information lacked the detail I would expect. And the information didnt show
any qualifications or accreditations. So I dont find the evidence consistent with a
comprehensive professional repair.
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr S took out the policy on about 19 April 2019 and
made an adjustment to it on about 1 May 2019. Mr S was the policyholder and the only
permitted driver.
After the accident in July 2019, Calpes expert reported as follows:
ENGINEER'S COMMENTS
The following airbags were noted to be deployed at the time of our inspection; Both
front seat/side air bags along with drivers knee air bag. Both roof air bags were
found to have been cut out out, as also was the drivers/steering wheel air bag.
We note this vehicle to have undergone what appears to be fairly recent collision
damage repairs to the left hand side. Quite substantial damage remains to the left
hand lower 'A' post around the lower front door hinge, with further distortion also
evident to the roof side rail above the rear door. There is evidence of recentrepainting to the bonnet, all left hand panels and rear bumper.
Poor repairs to the rear bumper and all tyres were noted to be of different brands.
From that, and from the photographs, I find that someone had cut out the roof airbags and
the steering wheel airbag. Calpes expert recorded his suspicions that this was related to the
previous accident. And I find it likely that someone cut out those airbags after the previous
accident in order to make the vehicle driveable. I dont find it likely that anyone had any
reason to cut them out after the accident in July 2019.
From the experts report and photographs, I can see poor repairs, for example to the left-
hand door post.
Mr Ss expert hasnt dealt in detail with such damage before the accident in early July 2019  
other than to give a pre-accident value for the vehicle of £17,824.00 in average condition 
with a mileage of about 23,000. So Im not persuaded that Mr Ss expert has weighed up the 
pre-accident damage as carefully as Calpes expert.
So I find that  just before the accident in early July 2019  the vehicle had noticeable signs
that it had been involved in a serious accident involving structural damage and that repair
had been poor.
Those signs mustve been known to Mr S. They wouldve been noticeable by any proposed
purchaser of the vehicle. Any reasonable purchaser wouldve realised that the first MOT
inspection due in July 2020 wouldve picked up the signs of structural damage and poor
repair.
According to Calpes claims file, the accident in early July happened after Mr Ss son took
the vehicle without Mr Ss consent  and he later faced consequences in the criminal justice
system. From our earlier file, I think this was a brother of Mr A who now represents Mr S.
Calpes claim file records that Mr S had said the mileage was 80,000. But it hasnt provided
a call recording of Mr S saying that. And it didnt pass that mileage on to its expert. So Im
not persuaded it is correct.
The trade guides contain valuations as follows:
Cazana £25,467.00
Glasss £22,500.00
CAP £21,500.00
So a good starting point for a pre-accident valuation was £22,500.00. But those figures are
for a vehicle in clean or good condition with an average mileage of about 28,000.
Calpe has proposed that from the starting point of £22,500.00, there should be a deduction
of 20% to reflect the previous write-off. That percentage is a maximum under our usual
approach. But there had been structural damage as Mr S knew. So  unlike the investigator
 I consider 20% is a fair deduction in his case.
In addition to that, Calpe proposed a further deduction of its experts estimate of about
£8,421.33 (excluding VAT) to put right the damage existing before the accident in early July
2019 so that the vehicle was in retail condition.
But I consider that many owners may leave minor damage unrepaired. So the cost of repair
isnt always incurred and doesnt reduce the value of the vehicle pound for pound. I would
often find it fair to deduct only half of the estimated repairs costs  in this case half of£8,421.33 is about £4,210.00.
So Ive thought about taking a starting point of £22,500.00, deducting 20% and further
deducting £4,210.00, to arrive at a pre-accident value of £13,790.00.
But Mr S had bought the damaged vehicle at auction only about three months before the
accident in early July 2019. It had cost him about £14,240.00. And I find that the best
available evidence of the pre-accident value.
Mr S spent further money on repairs. But Ive found that they were not comprehensive
professional repairs. And some of them  such as the door post  needed re-doing. So I
dont find that they enhanced the value of the vehicle.
Overall, I find that £11,250.00 wasnt a fair pre-accident value. I find that £14,240.00 was a 
fair pre-accident value.
I consider that Calpe shouldve paid that value less the £3,000.00 excess  a balance of
£11,240.00.
By a valuation Ive found unfair, Calpe caused Mr S some extra inconvenience and distress
at an already difficult time for him. But I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Calpe to pay
compensation for distress and inconvenience because much of that was to do with being
kept out of pocket  for which interest is an adequate remedy.
I consider that Calpe shouldve paid Mr S by the date of its final response. From what they
each say, Calpe wouldve sent him £8,250.00 at that stage while he pursued his complaint
with us. And it may have paid him that sum recently, in which case there is a balance to pay
of £2,990.00.
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Calpe to pay Mr S £11,240.00 insofar as it hasnt 
already paid him that amount  plus interest at our usual rate but only on the balance of 
£2,990.00.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S:
1. £11,240.00 insofar as it hasnt already paid him that amount for the pre-accident 
value of his vehicle; and
2. simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% on the balance of £2,990.00 from 2 April 
2020 to the date of payment. If Calpe considers that HM Revenue and Customs 
requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr S how much 
its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman