DRN-3595175
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a 
subsidence claim under a home insurance policy. They say theyve suffered unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience but more relevant is that building works for a loft conversion 
couldnt commence and the delay has led to the building costs increasing significantly.
For the avoidance of doubt, references to Lloyds in this decision include the actions of its 
agent who acted as the main claim handler. And as Mr D has been the main correspondent, 
Ill mainly refer to him.
What happened
Around late March 2021 Mr D initiated a claim for potential subsidence after noticing cracks 
in his property. He says works on a private loft conversion were due to start in early April.
Overall, it took Lloyds around six months to finally conclude that there wasnt subsidence 
and the cracks were due to settlement. In that time three inspections took place between 
early May and the end of August, and corresponding final reports followed in September. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr D accepting that communication wasnt adequate, and this led to some 
delay. Lloyds apologised that Mr D had had to chase regular updates and offered £250 
compensation to say sorry and recognise the inconvenience the delay had caused.
Our investigator explained his view that subsidence claims were often long and complex in 
nature and it was common for several visits to be required. But he thought Lloyds 
contractors didnt identify certain obvious issues early enough and this led to further visits 
being required and resulted in delays. But while the claim decision could have been reached 
sooner, that was in his view around a couple of months and so £250 compensation was fair. 
The investigator said he wasnt persuaded Mr D had demonstrated that increases in material 
costs for the loft conversion were a consequence of the delay and so didnt think Lloyds 
should fund the increased cost in a second building quote Mr D had obtained.
Mr D disagreed. He said a RICS (Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors) report explained 
increases in building materials occurred in 2021 and if we thought Lloyds contributed to 
delays it followed that cost increases would have been avoided. Mr D asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under industry rules Lloyds has a duty to, among other things, handle claims promptly and 
fairly. The main issue in this complaint is the length of time (around six months) it took 
Lloyds to decide that Mr Ds subsidence claim wasnt covered. Issue isnt taken with the 
claim decision per se but the upshot of the delay is that Mr D says his proposed loft 
conversion, which he put on hold until the claim decision had been made, increased 
significantly because of the rise in material costs. So, the issue I must decide is whether its 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to require Lloyds to pay anything towards the 
increases in materials because of the delays in it reaching a claim decision.
For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that Lloyds should have reached its decision quicker 
than it did. As the investigator explained, early identification of matters such as the decking 
and a soil vent pipe would have resulted in a slightly different approach to the claim 
investigation. And this in turn would have reduced the number of visits required and so the 
claim decision would have been reached earlier. However, given subsidence claims are by 
nature complex and in need of investigations and monitoring, often by several different 
experts, I think the delays were relatively limited. The investigator thought this was around 
two months and that doesnt seem an unreasonable estimation. Proposed investigative 
works were delayed because of poor preparatory observations by Lloyds agent and this 
inevitably impacted the promptness of making a claims decision. So, Im satisfied that its fair 
to hold Lloyds responsible and think about whats a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr D chased Lloyds many times for updates and he was clearly inconvenienced and 
distressed at the slowness of progress. Im satisfied £250 compensation fairly reflects that 
distress and inconvenience. The second but main point though concerns the increased loft 
conversion costs and whether its fair to require Lloyds to contribute to those costs because 
of the delay.
According to Mr Ds information the loft conversion had a target start date of 12 April and he 
initiated contact with Lloyds on 23 March, so just 20 days before works were scheduled to 
start. Ive read a builders quote for the works dated 4 February but theres no proposed date 
for works to commence. And its apparent from the quote that the builder hadnt yet visited 
Mr Ds property but simply quoted based on drawings provided by Mr D. Had Mr D finalised 
a contract of works with the builder to commence on 12 April I think there would be 
something specific in a contract about that. It seems quite late to have not finalised a 
contract of works at the stage of initiating the claim in late March. And had that contract been 
finalised then its unlikely there would be much, if any change in the costs as materials would 
have been ordered in preparation for the start of works just a few days away.
Ive read a second quote from the builder dated in October and costs are significantly higher 
than in the February quote. But its apparent that by this time the builder still hadnt visited 
Mr Ds property. And in this October quote there is a specific term that the quote was valid 
for 30 days and the quote would be amended if the price of materials increased. This was 
absent from the February quote, which reinforces my satisfaction that had Mr D agreed a 
contract for works to commence in early April the impact of any delay would have been 
minimal. Taking all this into account Im not persuaded that Mr D had reached the stage of a 
finalised contract of works to start in early April as he suggests. It seems to me that a loft 
conversion was in early stages of planning without works being finalised from a contract 
perspective. 
In addition to all of this I havent seen anything that persuades me Mr D had put Lloyds on 
notice that he was about to have conversion works carried out such that it was reasonably 
foreseeable for Lloyds that delays could lead to significant financial consequences for Mr D 
in his conversion costs. In these circumstances Im not persuaded that Lloyds should fairly 
be held responsible for the increased costs of work Mr D now apparently faces. I think it 
more likely than not that Mr Ds loft conversion was in early planning stages without a 
confirmed commitment to proceed. Im not satisfied its been demonstrated that theres a 
direct link between the delay I find Lloyds responsible for and the cost increase, so I make 
no award against Lloyds for this.My final decision
Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank General Insurance offered a fair amount of compensation at 
£250 and so dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman