DRN-3986836
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse the money he transferred to a 
fraudster as the result of a scam. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in early February 2023 to explain why I thought Mr Ks 
complaint redress should be altered. And I said that I would consider anything either party 
wished to submit to me. This is an extract from my provisional decision: 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that between May and 
September 2020, Mr K was tricked into sending a series of 20 payments totalling over 
£220,000 in the belief he was sending them to a legitimate cryptocurrency investment. 
Mr K explained he first heard of an investment opportunity in Cryptocurrency in an advert 
he received in an email around May 2020. He went on to speak to the company over 
Whatsapp. He also searched for the company online and called the number listed for them 
to ensure he was speaking to the legitimate company. He said he was sent positive 
customer testimonials for the company from people who had used them to invest. He was 
promised he would do very well, or even extremely well on his investment and could get 
returns of up to 76%. So, Mr K was persuaded to make investments. 
Mr K was asked to provide copies of identification documents to make an account, and was 
then provided with account details so that he could watch the progress of his investments  
though he only ever did this with the assistance of the company. Mr K downloaded screen 
sharing software so that they could help him with this. HSBC did call him when he was 
making one of the payments to question him about the nature of the transaction, and 
following this conversation they processed the payment. He also had £700 returned to him 
which the company told him were profits on an early part of the investment. Over time, he 
was persuaded to make further payments to secure his returns. However, unbeknownst to 
Mr K, he had been dealing with a scammer who was operating a scam investment company. 
The scam came to light in September 2020 when Mr K had asked for an update on the value 
of his investments, and then the company cut off all contact with him. Mr K contacted the 
police, Action Fraud and Trading Standards, and complained to HSBC. He accepted he had 
made the payments himself, but he felt HSBC should have done more to protect him from 
falling victim to this scam.
HSBC looked into what had happened, and did not think they had done anything wrong. 
They said the funds went to Mr Ks cryptocurrency account held by a legitimate company, 
and so the loss happened with them rather than on his HSBC account. For this reason, 
HSBC said the payments were not covered by the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. They said they had followed his payment instructions, 
which they are obligated to do. They explained that they had spoken to Mr K when he was 
making one of the payments, and he told them that it was a genuine investment and he had 
been working with the company for about eight months and would be making further 
payments to them. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. They recommended that the complaint should 
be upheld, and that HSBC should refund the money that Mr K had lost from the 26 May 2020 
payment, along with interest at the rate of Mr Ks current account, minus some funds he had 
managed to get returned. In summary, our investigator agreed that the CRM code would not 
apply in this case, but they thought that from the third payment onwards the payments were 
sufficiently unusual that HSBC should have been on alert that Mr K was at risk of fraud or 
financial harm, and further intervened to prevent his loss.
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators opinion on Mr Ks complaint. In summary, they 
said that: 
They didnt have enough detail of the mechanics of the scam and how it unfolded, as 
they had only seen Whatsapp messages from some time after the first payments 
were made; 
the losses occurred on the cryptocurrency account, not on Mr Ks HSBC account, so 
they did not agree with the investigators view on causation, nor understand why Mr 
K had not complained to the cryptocurrency company. Even if they could have 
prevented the payments being sent, the loss occurred as the result of payments from 
his cryptocurrency account; 
Mr K appeared to carry out no proper checks on the company he was dealing with 
nor on cryptocurrency investments more broadly despite paying significant amounts 
of money to them; 
When they called Mr K on the occasion of his first large payment, he told HSBC that 
he had been dealing with the company for eight or nine months, and to which he had 
made previous payments. This appears to have been untrue, and so they disagreed 
with our investigators opinion that Mr K was not being deliberately dishonest or 
intending to mislead them. They felt this was significant as they would have been 
reassured by the presence of a well-established relationship. In this call, Mr K 
confirmed he would be making further payments. On this basis and the knowledge 
that it was going to a regulated entity, it was reasonable to process his payment 
instructions moving forward; 
They disagreed that they ought to have asked some of the questions the investigator 
suggested, as they felt they were informed by hindsight and would not be realistic in 
the moment. They also disagreed that answers to some questions would have 
brought the scam to light. They pointed to our investigators suggestion that a return 
rate of up to 76% was unrealistic  given that it was going to cryptocurrency which is 
extremely volatile and has seen huge decreases and increases in value in recent 
years. We were only speculating here  we could not say that HSBC could have 
uncovered the scam, nor that they could have convinced Mr K of it. This was in the 
face of a very persuasive scammer who managed to get significant sums of money 
from Mr K, and Mr K himself who had been dishonest on an earlier call; 
They did not feel our investigator had given sufficient consideration to Mr Ks own 
conduct, and whether he could be found to have caused or at least contributed to his 
own losses. They pointed to the principle that consumers must take responsibility for 
their decisions and actions. Mr K invested on the back of an unsolicited advert. It 
appeared Mr K didnt complete proper independent research to verify those who he 
was dealing with where legitimate. He unquestioningly believed everything the 
merchant had told him. They accepted that Mr K did not have to consult with a 
financial advisor, but thought the checks he did were not commensurate with the risk 
of parting with over £200,000/ 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I have provisionally decided  and whyI have thought very carefully about what happened to Mr K and considered all evidence 
provided by both parties. Having done so, I am minded to reach a different outcome with 
regards to fair and reasonable redress than our investigator did.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr K was the victim of a cruel and callous 
scam. I was saddened to hear of what he have been put through, particularly given the loss 
of his wife which meant he was already struggling when he fell victim to the scam. I can tell 
from the evidence we have that this has had a significant impact on Mr K. So I would like to 
start by offering my condolences for his loss, and my sympathies for what he has been put 
through in this difficult time. 
My role here is to assess HSBCs actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold HSBC liable 
for the entirety of Mr Ks losses from the third payment onwards. So, having considered 
everything, I am minded to partially uphold Mr Ks complaint. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for Mr K, but I dont think I can fairly say that HSBC should 
reimburse him with the amount of money that was unfortunately lost to the scammers 
that our investigator recommended. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mr K  
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. Mr K made the payments himself and under the 
relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr K is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. In this 
case, this does not include the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code as this code requires the payment to have gone directly to a 
scammer, and in this case the funds went to an account Mr K set up and had access to 
in his name with the legitimate cryptocurrency platform. But based on the other relevant 
rules relating to authorised push payment scams, I think HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial hard from fraud. 
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, HSBC should have been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions. I dont think it is in dispute that by the third 
payment the activity on Mr Ks account became unusual and out of character. It was for 
£10,000, which was significantly larger than previous payments from Mr Ks account. 
Due to the unusual nature of the payment the relevant law, regulations and good 
industry practice required HSBC to intervene with it - and it is clear HSBCs systems did 
flag this payment as unusual and out of character as they acted correctly by calling him 
about it. Having reviewed the call between Mr K and HSBC, I agree with our investigator that they 
missed an opportunity to alert Mr K to the fact he was falling victim to a scam. They did 
ask about the nature and purpose of the payment  but I think they missed out on some 
red flags here that would have likely mean they would have unearthed the scam. I say 
this because Mr K admitted that there was third party involvement in the payments, but 
HSBC failed to ask the logical follow up questions about this third party and how they 
had come across them. Mr K said he was not given a cover story, and so he most likely 
would have told them that he found out about the third party through an unsolicited email 
advertisement, and had subsequently spoken to them via Whatsapp. The type of scam 
that Mr K fell for  an investment scam involving cryptocurrency  would have been well-
known to HSBC at the time Mr K made this payment. And I think the nature of how Mr K 
found out about the investment opportunity should have been recognised as a common 
hallmark of this type of scam. This should then have prompted further questioning about 
the investment  including the rate of return, what checks he had done on the third party 
and what he understood about the investment. I do accept HSBCs argument that a 76% 
rate of return would be possible with cryptocurrency at some points in time due to its 
inherent volatility. But I would expect them to inform Mr K of the significant risks involved 
with cryptocurrency investments, including that they are frequently part of a scam. I 
believe further probing into what checks Mr K had done would also have demonstrated 
that Mr K was putting himself at risk of fraud or financial harm  he had only seen some 
online reviews, called the listed phone number and sent them his documents. As HSBC 
have said, Mr K did not have to speak to a financial advisor but I think they could have 
pointed out the risks of proceeding without completing further checks himself. Overall, I 
think that whilst HSBC did the right thing in contacting Mr K about the payment, they 
could have gone further in their questioning and whilst I cannot say for sure what would 
have happened if they had, I think on balance it is more likely than not that they would 
have been able to recognise the risk of fraud or financial harm to Mr K and provided him 
with the evidence to stop him making this and the future payments. 
In other words, I believe that but for HSBCs failure to probe, the scam probably would 
not have succeeded and Mr K wouldnt have gone on to make the payment or future 
payments at all.
HSBC have argued that Mr Ks losses did not actually take place on his HSBC account, 
so they should not be liable for them. 
Should Mr K bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence?
As I have explained, I think on balance that HSBC could have prevented the loss here. 
But I also have to consider whether Mr K ought to bear any responsibility for the losses 
he has incurred too. This is because there is a general principle that consumers must 
take some responsibility for their decisions. In this instance, I do think that Mr K is partly 
responsible for his loss. And I am minded to say that I do think it would be fair and 
reasonable to make a deduction from the total award because of this. 
I say this firstly because I do think Mr K ought to have completed due diligence prior to 
sending the vast sums of money to the scammers. I know that Mr K did some checks, 
but I dont think that they were sufficient. Mr Ks testimony is that he first learned of the 
investment opportunity from an unsolicited email. This was not a company he was 
aware of before, or that he had been recommended. So, even if Mr K was compelled by 
the advertisement and early conversations with the company, I would have expected 
him to be alert to the risk he could be dealing with a scam company. I think he was alert 
to such a risk  and I understand he called the listed number online for the company, 
and did see some customer reviews that were sent to him. However, given Mr Ks own 
testimony that he was not particularly au fait with cryptocurrency, I would have expected him to have completed more diligent research before parting with his money  or 
recognised that there was a risk in not doing so. 
There were further red flags that I would have expected Mr K to have recognised as 
warnings  that he could be dealing with scammers  such as the fact he was pressured 
into sending more funds to protect his returns. I say this because having reviewed the 
limited correspondence Mr K still had access to, there does not appear to be a very clear 
explanation of why sending more funds would assist with this. I do accept he spoke to 
them on the phone, but it is unclear what was discussed in these calls from Mr Ks 
testimony. Further, I think it would also be highly unusual for a professional investment 
company to communicate almost entirely through Whatsapp, and not to provide any 
contracts or documentation relating to such a large investment. Mr K also told HSBC that 
he had been liaising with them for some time before making any payments. He has been 
unable to explain why he said this to HSBC, but said that he had not been given any 
cover story by the scammers to give to his bank if they called. As such it is unclear why 
he gave inaccurate information to HSBC on the phone  so on balance perhaps it is 
most likely he mis-spoke. I would expect him to have been accurate and precise in what 
he told his bank  particularly given the size of the payment he was making. Mr K also 
gave the scammers access to his computer, and never reviewed his account 
independently of them. Given all of these red flags from the start of the scam, I think it 
would have been reasonable for Mr K to have done further independent checks such as 
looking online or talking to a trusted person or organisation about the investment 
scenario that was unfolding. This is particularly so given the large sums of money he 
was being asked to end. Unfortunately, Mr K took what he was being told at face value 
and proceeded with the payments. 
Having taken into account all of the circumstances of this complaint, I think a fair and 
reasonable deduction would amount to 50% of the losses that I considered eligible for 
refunding. I feel that this deduction takes into account that HSBC ought to have done 
more to be satisfied that Mr K was not at risk of financial harm from fraud, but at the 
same time, takes into account Mr Ks own actions and the role they played in the 
success of the scam. 
Putting things right 
I am minded to say that I think fairly and reasonably HSBC should: 
Refund 50% of the losses from the payment on 26 April 2020 onwards; and 
Pay the account rate interest from the dates of the losses until the date of the 
settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as I was minded to reach in my 
provisional decision. I will explain why. 
HSBC wrote to me to tell me that they had nothing further to add. Mr K spoke to our 
investigator, and wrote to our service to say that he accepted the provisional decision as 
fair. As neither party provided further points or evidence, my reasoning within my 
provisional decision remains unaltered  and so I am reaching the same decision as I 
outlined within it. My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint, and require HSBC Bank UK Plc to 
refund 50% of Mr Ks losses from this scam from the payment on 26 April 2020. I also 
require them to pay interest at the account interest rate from the dates of the losses until the 
date of the settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman