DRN-2846045
The complaint
Mr T is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his application 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr T applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan on 5 May 2020. He held an existing 
personal account with the bank and a business account with another provider.
Santander confirmed receipt of Mr Ts application and told him it would be in touch for more 
information. But the next Mr T heard from the bank was on 15 June, when it told him that his 
application had been declined. 
Mr T complained to Santander, as he believed he met all the published eligibility criteria and 
was concerned that the bank hadnt gathered the relevant information it needed to properly 
assess his application. In its response, the bank said its decision had been correct  and 
was based on the fact that there was insufficient evidence to show that he was using his 
Santander account for business purposes. Mr T remained unhappy, and referred his 
complaint to us.
In its submission to us, Santander maintained that its decision had been correct but 
accepted that it could have handled things better. It said Mr Ts application had been 
declined as it was only accepting applications from personal customers who were using the 
account for their business transactions. It acknowledged that it could have been clearer 
about this with Mr T, and offered £150 in recognition of this. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. In summary, she said:
Santander had assessed Mr Ts application in line with its policy not to lend to 
personal customers unless they were trading through the account, which she thought 
was a decision the bank was entitled to make under the rules of the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme. 
While recognising the operational challenges that the bank was facing in light of the 
pandemic and demand for loans under the Scheme, she agreed that the customer 
service Mr T received had fallen short of expectations  noting in particular that the 
bank ought to have communicated its decision sooner.
She didnt think the delay in receiving the banks decision had prejudiced Mr Ts 
position, as hed still been able to apply for a loan elsewhere. So she thought that the 
£150 Santander had now offered was a fair way to put things right. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators view. He responded to say, in summary, that:
His application met the eligibility criteria set by both the British Business Bank and 
Santander as published at the time  and they didnt include a requirement to hold a 
business account. The banks criteria might have changed since, but he said his 
complaint should be assessed against those in force at the time. While Santanders 
website now referenced the need for applicants to be running their business through 
a personal account, this requirement wasnt listed at the time of his application.
Santander couldnt have considered his application fairly as it didnt request any 
further information from him, as it said it would.
Hed not been able to apply elsewhere for a Bounce Back Loan while his application 
with Santander was pending as only one request could be made at a time. And by 
the time hed received the banks decision, lenders were no longer accepting 
applications from new customers.
While accepting that Santander couldnt be forced to provide him a Bounce Back Loan, Mr T 
said that it ought to compensate him for the additional costs hed face in borrowing the 
money he needed elsewhere.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. In doing so, I should point out that while Ive considered 
everything Mr T has told us I wont address each and every point hes made  rather my 
findings focus on those matters which I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my 
decision.
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. While it wasnt a 
requirement of the Scheme that applicants have, or enter into, a business relationship with a 
lender, it was up to each lender to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to those 
without one. 
Santander didnt require applicants to enter into a business relationship  there was no 
requirement to hold a business account. But it did restrict the basis on which it was willing to 
lend to existing customers who didnt have one. 
Santander has explained that it accepted applications from existing personal customers 
using their personal account for business transactions, because it could use the account 
information to verify that the applicant satisfied the various eligibility requirements under the 
Scheme rules. For example, that they were trading at the relevant date, or turning over the 
requisite amount to obtain the loan requested. And it didnt accept applications from personal 
customers who werent running their business through the personal account, as it couldnt 
validate the information in this way.I think Santanders policy was reasonable. The bank was required to carry out a number of 
checks under the Scheme before lending, including Know Your Customer, fraud and anti-
money laundering checks. Santander conducted those checks by reviewing information it 
already held about its customers, including their transaction history. But as Mr T wasnt an 
existing business customer  so hadnt gone through the banks usual validation processes  
and wasnt running his business through his personal account, Santander couldnt complete 
these checks. And so I think it was fair for Santander to decline Mr Ts application in line with 
its policy. 
I know Mr T doesnt think that this policy was in force at the time of his application, but the 
fact that this aspect of the policy wasnt detailed on the banks website doesnt lead me to 
think it was operating different criteria at the time. Its worth highlighting that Mr T made his 
application on the day the Scheme was launched  given it had been set up at very short 
notice, I think its understandable that information published by the bank about its criteria 
wasnt as detailed as it could have been. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Santander 
treated Mr Ts application in the same way as one from any other existing personal 
customer.
Mr T says that Santanders decision cant have been fair as the bank didnt request and 
review information that would have been necessary to properly assess his application. But 
no further information was needed, as Mr Ts application didnt meet the banks requirement 
that the personal account be used for his business. So I dont think it did anything wrong in 
declining the application without asking Mr T for anything further.
Santander has already accepted that it didnt respond to Mr Ts application as well as it 
should have done. When acknowledging the application, it said it would be in touch to 
request further information  raising Mr Ts expectations and giving him some cause for 
concern when a decision was reached about his application without any further information 
being requested. 
Santander also took six weeks from the date of application to make and communicate its 
decision to Mr T. This is longer than was envisaged under the Scheme and I cant see that 
the bank offered any meaningful update to Mr T during this time either. And when it did 
inform Mr T of the outcome, its rationale wasnt explained clearly. It said there was 
insufficient evidence to suggest that the account is being used for business purposes, 
without reference to its requirements or policy. I think this explanation was somewhat vague 
and unhelpful. So Mr T was understandably left with questions about how his application had 
been decided.
I appreciate that all of this would have exacerbated the stress of the application and I can 
see Mr T spent some time in following up on the matter with the bank. So its right that hes 
compensated for this, and to that end I think Santanders offer of £150 is fair. 
Mr T says that the delay by Santander in assessing his application left him unable to apply 
elsewhere as lenders had stopped accepting applications from new customers by the time 
he received the banks decision. I accept he couldnt apply while awaiting a decision from 
Santander, as only one application was permitted at any one time, but once Mr T received 
Santanders decision on 15 June 2020, he was free to apply elsewhere. And from what Ive 
seen, there were other lenders that were accepting applications from new customers at this 
time. There is, of course, no guarantee that Mr T would have been accepted by one of those 
lenders either  but I dont think Santanders actions left him unable to access the Scheme 
altogether. Taking everything into account, I dont think Santander unfairly declined Mr Ts application 
for a Bounce Back Loan. And while it ought reasonably to have communicated its decision 
sooner and more clearly than it did, I think its offer to pay Mr T £150 is fair for the stress and 
inconvenience this caused. So Im not requiring the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc 
to pay Mr T compensation of £150.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman