DRN-3180445
The complaint
Mrs G says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Mrs G says that she was already in financial difficulty when LaH lent to her. She thinks that it 
should have seen this and not approved any lending. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about 12 home collected loans LaH provided to Mrs G between July 2011 
and October 2015.
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 21/07/2011 £375 41 09/02/2012
2 09/02/2012 £375 41 04/10/2012
3 04/10/2012 £375 41 11/04/2013
4 11/04/2013 £375 41 14/11/2013
5 07/11/2013 £200 32 12/06/2014
6 14/11/2013 £375 41 10/07/2014
7 12/06/2014 £200 32 18/12/2014
8 10/07/2014 £375 41 26/02/2015
9 18/12/2014 £300 32 23/07/2015
10 26/02/2015 £375 41 15/10/2015
11 23/07/2015 £300 32 18/08/2016
12 15/10/2015 £375 42 20/04/2017
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider loans 1 to 8 as Mrs G complained more 
than six years after they were started. So, it doesnt think this lending is within the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator firstly said that he thought Mrs G had complained in time. This is because 
whilst she made her complaint later than six years from when she started the loans there 
was no evidence that showed she was aware she could complain three years before she 
actually did. And this meant her complaint had been made in time. 
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold it. 
He didnt think that LaH had irresponsibly lent for loans 1 to 3. But he said that by loan 4 the 
lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH shouldve stopped lending 
at this point. 
LaH responded to the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of this complaint only. It 
said that, essentially: 
We havent asked Mrs G when she became aware she could complain. 
Mrs G was in arrears with her lending as early as 2012 and this continued going 
forward at times. 
So, she would have been aware that the loans were causing her problems more than 
three years before she made her complaint. And she should have been aware that 
she could complain about them much earlier than she did. 
Mrs G didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs G and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all the loans being complained about. Having done so, 
I have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider 
all the loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mrs G) knew, or should really have known she had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 8 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs G was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Mrs G experienced repayment problems and this 
shouldve caused her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough 
in this particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems would no doubt have led Mrs G 
to realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this 
would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her aware that these problems were caused by 
LaH doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs G was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before she complained. Given the 
evidence I already have I dont think its necessary to clarify this with Mrs G. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think the complaint about loans 1 to 8 were raised within the time 
limits I need to apply and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and 
consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The current industry regulator defines sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mrs G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs G had with 
LaH. So, they are something I will take into account, when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 12 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Mrs G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Gs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
Mrs G had been indebted to LaH for almost two years. And she was making a 
commitment for another 41 weeks. This is a long and sustained period of time to be 
using high cost credit. 
Mrs Gs first loan was for £375 as were loans two to four. So this was the latest loan 
in a fairly long line of loans where the amounts borrowed didnt decrease. And there 
doesnt seem to be a prospect of a change in her circumstances to allow this 
borrowing to decrease in the near future. Right from the start, Mrs G was provided with a new loan within a very short time of 
settling a previous one. And Mrs G often had more than one loan running at the 
same time. 
So, taking all of the above into account, LaH ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Mrs G was having to borrow further to cover the hole making her previous 
loan repayments was leaving in her finances she was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably.
And LaH ought to have known that Mrs G was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mrs G didnt make any real inroads into the amount she owed LaH for some time. 
Loan 12 was taken out over four years after Mrs Gs first. And it was still for the same 
amount. Mrs G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH 
over an extended period.
I think that Mrs G lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Gs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs G borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 12 and LaH should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs G from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs G may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs G would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mrs G loans 4 to 12.A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs G towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should pay Mrs G the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Gs borrowing for loans 4 to 12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Gs credit 
file if they still appear on there. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman