DRN-3130310
The complaint
Mrs Fs complaint is about the handling of a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy 
with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). All references to RSA include its 
claims-handling agents.
What happened
Mrs F made a claim under her legal expenses policy, as she wanted to take legal action to 
recover the costs of a university course, as she said the university had breached its contract 
with her by not providing adequate supervision and tuition. RSA instructed panel solicitors to 
assess the claim. They concluded that there was no prospect of a successful legal case and 
so RSA refused to meet the claim. 
Mrs F raised a complaint about the decision to refuse the claim in September 2020, which I 
am dealing with separately. This decision only deals with Mrs Fs complaint about the 
handling of her claim by RSA and in particular the following issues: 
The delay in RSA validating her policy and proceeding with an assessment of her 
claim. 
Confusion about the responsibilities taken by RSA, its claims-handling agents and 
the solicitors. 
Mrs F says she was harassed during phone calls by two of RSAs agents. 
RSAs failure to provide Mrs F with information relating to her case which she 
requested as part of a data subject access request.
RSA failed to address her complaints in a timely manner. 
RSA said there was no evidence of harassment. RSA says its agents tried to provide Mrs F 
with answers to her queries and in order to be able to address complaints, it is often 
necessary to contact customers to discuss potential solutions but this is not harassment. Mrs F 
also spoke to a team coach twice. These calls are not recorded but its agents notes of the 
call say one call was terminated as Mrs F was agitated. It says it was decided it was best int 
eh circumstances to terminate that call. RSA also says it has provided Mrs F with the 
information it can about her claim and any information held by its agents or the solicitors will 
have to be requested from them directly and it cannot request it on her behalf. 
RSA did however, accept there were some delays in the initial assessment of the claim and in 
response to her complaints. RSA offered a total of £130 compensation for these matters. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He told Ms F that any issue with the data she 
requested from RSA would need to be dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). The investigator considered there were some avoidable delays on RSAs part which 
will have caused upset and frustration to Mrs F. He recommended that the compensation be 
increased to £200, as he thought this better reflected the trouble caused to Mrs F. 
RSA accepted the investigators recommendation but Mrs F did not. She says she needs to 
recover the £5,500 fees she paid the university and the suggestion of £200 compensation is 
an insult.
As the investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA says it has provided Mrs F with the information and data she is entitled to (including 
copies of call recordings) and it has refused permission for us to forward copies of its files 
and call recordings that it provided to us, to Mrs F. I have no power to investigate whether 
RSA dealt with Mrs Fs request for data correctly or not. This is a matter for the Information 
Commissioners office. And we cannot make any request for her personal data from any 
organisation on her behalf, but she is entitled to do so herself. 
Legal expenses insurers are required to keep legal expenses claims separate from other 
areas of business. RSA have done this by using claims-handling agents to deal with its legal 
expenses business, including claims and complaints. This means that while RSA has 
ultimate responsibility for how they deal with claims, it cannot interfere with or influence the 
handling of an individual case. However, while the business entities have to be kept 
separate, RSA is ultimately responsible for the way its agents handle the claim. I agree with 
the investigator that RSA could have handled Mrs Fs complaint and explained the 
interaction between the entities better and if it had done so, it might have reduced some of 
the stress caused to Mrs F.
There were also some delay in the initial validation of Mrs Fs policy cover. I can see this 
would have caused some inconvenience but this was resolved relatively quickly and did not 
affect the outcome of her assessment, the legal claim or the outcome of the complaint, as far 
as I can see. 
RSA also accepts that Mrs F had first raised concerns about the handling of her claim in 
November 2020 but this had not been logged properly until December 2020, which caused some 
delay in addressing those concerns. RSA did ask its internal lawyer to review the case and the 
decision to decline the claim and so it did deal with the complaint as I would have expected 
after this initial delay. And, again it seems this did not affect the outcome of her claim or 
complaint.
With regard to Mrs Fs allegation of harassment, I am not persuaded there is any evidence of 
inappropriate behaviour by RSA or its agents. The call-handlers tried to assist Mrs F and 
while one call was apparently terminated, I have not been provided with any evidence that 
this was unreasonable in the circumstances. I do however, accept that the entire situation 
was extremely stressful for Mrs F and she feels very strongly about her claim.  
 
Overall therefore, I agree with the investigator that the sum of £200 is appropriate 
compensation for the errors made by RSA.  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs F the total sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of her claim. (This sum includes the amounts already offered, so if those have been 
paid already. RSA only needs to now pay the difference.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman