DRN-3694376
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs T complain that when they applied for a joint account with Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) it failed to adhere to the terms and conditions of a promotional offer 
that came with the account.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Nationwide. Mr M changed this account to a joint account with 
Mrs T. The account was advertised as coming with a promotional offer of an interest-free 
overdraft for 12 months providing the customer had not had this type of account before.
Due to an error on Nationwides part Mr M and Mrs T didnt receive the promotional offer as 
Mr M had previously held this type of account but in his sole name.
Mr M and Mrs T complained to Nationwide who compensated them £75 but refused to 
refund the interest applied to the account during the promotional period as hed previously 
benefited by holding this type of account before.
Mr M and Mrs T were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
Following this on review, Nationwide agreed that an error had been made and Mr M and Mrs 
T were entitled to the offer because they now held a new joint account whilst before when Mr 
M had benefitted from the offer the account was in his sole name.
Nationwide offered to reset the account for the 12 months promotional offer of:
5% interest fixed for 12 months; and 
interest-free arranged overdraft for 12 months.
All subject to the terms and conditions. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought that this was a fair was to settle the 
complaint.
Mr M and Mrs T didnt want to accept this offer. They say because Nationwide didnt honour 
the promotional offer, they incurred interest as a result (around £180) and wish to have all 
interest charged in error refunded. They have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems a consumer has experienced and see if the business has 
done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case Nationwide is not disputing it made an error in wrongly advising that Mr M and 
Mrs Ts account didnt qualify for the promotional offer because Mr M had previously held 
this type of account before despite the promotion being available to newly held joint 
accounts  which this was.
That being the case ideally Nationwide should now put Mr M and Mrs T in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistake didnt happen.
To settle the complaint Nationwide on top of the £75 compensation paid have offered as 
outlined above to reset the account for the 12 month promotional offer subject to the 
accounts terms and conditions. 
Mr M and Mrs T dont wish to accept this as they have been charged interest for using the 
overdraft during a period when it should have been interest free. And I agree. The offer 
made by Nationwide doesnt put them in the position they wouldve been in had Nationwide 
not made the mistake. 
But sometimes it isnt always possible to easily work out what wouldve happened should a 
mistake not have been made  as in this case. Ultimately, what I need to decide is whether 
what Nationwide have agreed to do is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I 
think it is, as Im not persuaded that the promotion being applied in the next 12 months is 
going to have a material impact on Mr M and Mrs Ts financial circumstances.
I accept it doesnt put Mr M and Mrs T in the exact position they wouldve been in if the 
mistake hadnt happened. But What Nationwide have offered is a practical solution to a tricky 
situation which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So it follows that Im not 
going to ask Nationwide to do anything more and it is up to Mr M and Mrs T if they now want 
to accept Nationwides offer. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that Nationwide Building Societys offer is a fair 
way to settle Mr M and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman