DRN-3286807
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was mis-sold an insurance policy by Thistle Insurance Services 
Limited.
What happened
Miss S has an insurance policy designed for tenants of a particular Local Authority.
The policy is described as tenants contents insurance. As the name would suggest, it 
mainly covers contents belonging to tenants. Buildings insurance cover is taken out by the 
Local Authority. 
However, the policy also provides cover for damage to the Authoritys fixtures and fittings. 
And it covers damage to any fixed items or home improvements put in place by the tenant.
In July 2021, Miss S added extended accidental damage cover to her policy. The standard 
policy covers accidental damage to glass, mirrors and electrical equipment. Adding extended 
accidental damage cover means that damage to all contents and/or fixtures and fittings 
and/or fixed items and home improvements is covered.
Shortly after adding the extra cover, Miss S made a claim. She says her son left the bath 
taps on accidentally, causing an overflow of water which damaged the flooring in her flat. 
Miss S had the flooring installed herself. So, in the terms of the policy, it was a fixed item or 
home improvement the tenant had put in place.
Miss S had to spend close to £7,000 to get the damage repaired and the flooring replaced. 
When she first made her claim, she was told the whole cost would be covered.
She was later told that the cover was subject to a limit of £2,000 or 20% of the total contents 
amount insured (whichever was the greater). And because shed only taken contents cover 
up to £10,000, the underwriter would only pay £2,000 towards the cost of her new flooring.
Miss S made a complaint to the underwriter and later brought that complaint to us. She 
accepted our view that the underwriter was entitled to decline the claim under the terms of 
the policy, but that she should be compensated for initially being misled by the agent who 
told her she would get the full amount paid in settlement. 
Miss S then made a complaint about Thistle, who had sold her the policy with the 
underwriter. She said she hadnt been told about the policy limit relating to fixed items or 
home improvements and that therefore Thistle had mis-sold her the policy. She wanted 
Thistle to pay her the difference between the £2,000 shed got in the settlement from the 
underwriter and the almost £7,000 it had cost her to get the flooring replaced.
Thistle rejected Miss Ss complaint. They said the limit on claims relating to fixed items and 
home improvements was clearly set out in the policy terms. And that theyd advised Miss S 
to read the terms to ensure the policy was suitable for her when the policy was renewed.
Miss S wasnt happy with that outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Thistle had done anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear at the outset that this decision is solely about the way in which the 
policy was sold to Miss S. The separate complaint against the underwriter has been resolved 
and its not for me to re-visit that here.
When a potential customer is considering buying an insurance policy, the business selling 
that policy (whether thats a broker or the underwriter themselves) has an obligation to make 
sure the customer understands what theyre buying.
What the customer is buying is set out in the policy terms. Those terms should be clear and 
unambiguous. And they should be available to the customer before the purchase is made 
and/or finalised.
Because policy terms are usually quite long and involved, its perfectly reasonable for a 
business to send the potential customer a document setting out those terms in detail. And 
theres a reasonable expectation that the customer will make themselves familiar with the 
terms and the nature of the policy.
However, we take the view that in order to be fair and reasonable to the customer, a 
business needs to specifically bring to the customers attention any terms that are unusual or 
onerous. 
This can be done in a number of different ways  verbally, in a covering email, in a summary 
document and/or by putting the term in question in big, bold letters towards the front of the 
policy document.
Whats fair and reasonable in each case will depend on the particular circumstances around 
the sale - and the nature of the policy and its specific terms. But the fundamental principle is 
that there shouldnt be any (nasty) surprises for the customer later on because a limit, 
exclusion or onerous term wasnt brought sufficiently to their attention and/or was hidden in 
the small print and/or wasnt set out clearly.
In this case, Miss S says that when she added extended accidental cover to the policy in 
July 2021, she wasnt made aware of the claim limit relating to fixed items or home 
improvements.
She says, in fact, that she asked several questions about the policy during the conversation 
with the agent. And she was assured that if she made a claim she would be covered up to 
the total contents sum insured (in this case £10,000).
Thistle dont have a recording of the call Miss S made to add extended accidental cover to 
her policy in July 2021. Its difficult then to know exactly what she was told and how the 
conversation unfolded. However, Miss S has herself told us that she gave several examples 
of potential claims and was assured that shed be able to get the full cover, up to £10,000.
I should say that the examples Miss S says she discussed with the agent all relate to 
different scenarios in which her contents were lost or damaged. And its not inaccurate to say that, in that kind of situation, she would be covered for loss or damage of contents up to 
£10,000.
But, in any case, I think the telephone conversation in July 2021 is a red herring. That 
conversation, as Miss S has told us herself, was about her adding extended accidental 
damage cover to her policy. It wasnt the point at which she bought the policy.
In fact, Miss S has had the policy (although it was initially with a different underwriter) since 
April 2016. And since April 2016, shes had cover for fixed items and home improvements, 
which has been subject to the limit for any claim to £2,000 or 20% of the total contents sum 
insured.
I dont think it would have been an error for the agent Miss S spoke to in July 2021 to 
assume that Miss S was already familiar with the terms of the wider policy and to 
concentrate on talking about the extended accidental damage cover Miss S wanted to add to 
her policy.
Miss S has said that, during that conversation, the agent should have read out to her all the 
exclusions and limits included in the policy. And by not doing so, they misled Miss S  and 
ultimately mis-sold the policy to her.
Im afraid I cant agree with that, for a number of reasons. One, the agent in 2021 couldnt 
mis-sell something to Miss S that shed already bought (in 2016). Two, we wouldnt expect 
an agent to read out all policy terms to a potential customer even at the first point of sale. 
And three, as Ive said, it wasnt unreasonable at that point to assume that Miss S was 
familiar with the terms of a policy shed had for more than five years already.
Miss S hasnt made any complaint to us about the original sale of the policy in 2016. And Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not Thistle sent her all the relevant policy documents at the 
time, advised her to read them carefully and gave her a contact number to raise any queries.
Im also satisfied its more likely than not that Miss S was sent policy documents at annual 
renewal in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. And Thistle have shown us that the policy booklet 
and schedule were sent to Miss S in July 2021 when she added extended accidental 
damage cover to her policy.
Having looked at the policy terms very carefully, theres no ambiguity about what cover is 
offered for fixed items and home improvements. The claim limit is set out very clearly. And 
its not buried in the small print or at the back of an overly-lengthy policy document.
I also dont think the term is particularly unusual  policy limits in some form are applied in 
most home insurance policies. 
And, in context, I dont think the terms relating to fixed items and home improvements can 
be described as onerous for the customer. Indeed, theres a respectable argument to say 
that, in a policy which is clearly titled and sold as contents insurance, the cover for things 
which arent contents is almost an added extra.
Finally, Id just say that Miss S was clearly aware that she had cover for fixed items and 
home improvements. Otherwise - and assuming she wasnt entirely familiar with the terms 
of her contents policy - she wouldnt have known that she could even make a claim for her 
flooring. 
So, I can only assume that Miss S was aware of these particular terms in the policy. If she 
was aware of them, its not unreasonable to think that shed read them. And if shed read them, shed be very much aware of the claim limit which would be applied.
So, in summary, I cant reasonably conclude that the policy was mis-sold to Miss S, for all 
the reasons set out above. Id also ask Miss S to understand that, if the July 2021 phone call 
is her concern and she says she was misled at that point, we could only conclude that she 
was mis-sold the additional extended accidental damage cover. 
If so, we could ask Thistle to reverse the sale and refund Miss Ss premiums themselves. 
But then she wouldnt be entitled to the £2,000 cover she did have for her flooring. In other 
words, she has very much benefitted from the additional cover she bought in July 2021 and 
would be mush worse off if we tried to reverse that sale  the premiums she paid between 
that time and making the claim were minimal.     
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman