DRN-3551000
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is holding him liable for 
unauthorised transactions on his account.
What happened
Our investigator covered the background to this complaint in some detail, so I find no need 
to repeat everything again here. 
In summary, Mr H says that after an evening out with friends he was attacked and his debit 
card, PIN and SIM card from his phone were stolen. Mr H says his attackers carried out 
multiple transactions, and he did not authorise them. To resolve things, Mr H wants NatWest 
to refund the disputed amounts which total around £2,000. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs case and found NatWest acted fairly in its handling of 
Mr Hs complaint. She explained that based on the available evidence she thought it more 
likely Mr H had authorised the transactions. 
Mr H did not agree with the investigators review, so the case has been passed to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into 
account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Hs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by NatWest and 
Mr H. The investigators view contained a comprehensive review of the disputed transactions 
and their timing. I dont intend to repeat this detail here, but I will focus on the points that 
have been key in helping me reach my decision. 
Mr Hs testimony to NatWest and our service about what happened the night his card was 
stolen has varied. In any event, Mr H says he was approached by a group of men on his way 
home and threatened with a knife. Mr H says he was forced to hand over his debit card, PIN 
number and his SIM card. Mr H say he withdrew £50 himself as he needed the cash for a 
taxi home. NatWests records indicate the first disputed transaction took place at 3.42am. 
This is a minute before Mr Hs genuine withdrawal of £50. Mr H has been asked about this 
sequence of events but says he cant remember the exact details. It seems unlikely Mr Hs 
attackers would take his items, and then pass the card back to him so he could make a cash 
withdrawal. Mr H isnt sure how his attackers obtained his PIN, he says he may have told 
them verbally or they couldve watched him at the cash point. These inconsistencies mean 
its difficult to ascertain how events unfolded. 
Ive also looked at the pattern of the disputed transactions. The first disputed transaction 
took place at 3.42am. Although an in-branch withdrawal was made at 9.22am there was then 
a significant gap in spending, with the next point of sale transaction taking place at 12.56pm. 
Prior to this, two balance enquiries were also made. I appreciate fraudulent behaviour can 
vary widely. But it is certainly more common for an unknown fraudster to use as much 
money as quickly as possible particularly if someone is likely to miss their card and report it 
promptly. Especially given Mr Hs account of events, where he had been attacked and knew 
his card and details had been handed over. But this didnt happen in Mr Hs case, where the 
disputed transactions happened sometime after the theft.  
I can also see there was some delay in Mr H contacting NatWest about the attack and the 
fact his account had been compromised. Mr H says his attackers took his phone, removed 
the SIM, but then returned his phone again. Mr H says this is why there was a delay in him 
contacting NatWest, as well as the trauma of what he had experienced. Mr H was eventually 
able to contact NatWest and use his online banking facility. This is when he says he noted 
the disputed transactions. However, looking at Mr Hs online banking app details it seems he 
had logged in to check his account numerous times before contacting NatWest about his 
card and account. 
Based on what Mr H has told us about his mobile phone device, it seems his NatWest app 
would only be accessible using his devices security code or face recognition. Mr H hasnt 
been able to explain this activity and the apparent discrepancies. The key issue here is that 
it seems to me he couldve alerted NatWest much sooner than he actually did about the 
transactions. 
Mr H has also raised concerns about how his attackers were able to make an in-branch 
withdrawal. A branch withdrawal seems very high risk for a fraudster, especially given the 
card being used could be reported at any time. NatWest has confirmed the withdrawal was 
authorised using Mr Hs card and PIN. The branch has therefore allowed this transaction as 
it was in line with the banks processes. I can see Mr H has been awarded £100 from 
NatWest as he received poor service and conflicting information in relation to this aspect of 
his complaint. 
I am sorry to hear about the distress this matter has caused Mr H. I can assure Mr H I have 
carefully considered all the available evidence. Based on this evidence I think it is more than 
likely Mr H authorised these transactions himself. I appreciate his strong denial this is what 
happened, but I wont be asking NatWest to refund Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman