The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about Quilter Financial Services Ltd trading as Intrinsic Wealth 
Management (Intrinsic) and its appointed representative, R. Mr and Mrs D feel that R mis-
sold them a mortgage and want compensation for their financial loss and trouble and upset 
suffered.
Background
Mr and Mrs D were advised by R, an appointed representative of Intrinsic, about
what mortgage was suitable to meet their needs when they wanted a new mortgage
product in 2018.
Mr and Mrs D said that they were recommended a product to last for five years with
an interest rate of 1.69% by R and authorised him to accept it. But after completion
they discovered that they had a five year product at a rate of 1.95%; Mr and Mrs D
said that the lender confirmed it hadnt created a five year product of 1.69% and that
it had been given a fake email address by R to contact Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D
said the fake email caused them to not receive the mortgage offer (as R didnt send it
either) and prevented them from cancelling the product within the cooling-off period.
They felt R had caused them financial loss as they wanted the lower rate.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Intrinsic about Rs conduct and its recommendation.
Intrinsic said R recommended a five year product with a 1.95% rate. It said Mr and
Mrs D wouldve had to have signed the mortgage offer for the product to be put in
place and R did send them information about the product they took out. Intrinsic also
said that the mortgage offer wouldve been posted to Mr and Mrs D direct and it
believed that they did know what product was being taken out.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and brought their complaint to us
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs D doesnt agree with the investigator's view.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should be upheld for these reasons: 
While the key facts illustration (KFI) and mortgage suitability report have all been
created saying Mr and Mrs D should take out the five year product at 1.95%, theres
no evidence that it was sent to them. For example, the report hasnt been signed by
the consumers, which is a common step in the process. Given the email
DRN-1754435correspondence between the parties shows communication was easily undertaken, 
thats a striking omission.
Not only did R give a fake email address to the lender to contact Mr and Mrs D 
(despite having and using their correct email addresses), and the lack of evidence 
that they were sent the mortgage offer by R, R in email exchanges with Mr and Mrs D 
said the lender mustve made a mistake. Theres no doubt that Mr and Mrs D were 
astonished to find they had a different product  the strength of shock behind their 
emails on discovery are clear, and R doesnt immediately point out that the correct 
product was taken out; he says theres been a mistake by the lender. I note an email 
from R to Mr and Mrs D where he talks about the 1.69% product for five years  it 
reads as if it is available for Mr and Mrs D, but the product didnt exist at that time. 
But theres no email evidence available to me where Mr and Mrs D authorise R to 
obtain that product and other products are also mentioned. I think its likely there 
were more emails between the parties than have been made available to me, but I 
can only proceed on the basis of what I have. Im persuaded that its more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs D believed that they were getting a mortgage for five years at a rate 
of 1.69%, even though normally mortgage information would also have been given to 
them through the solicitors dealing with the remortgage.
Intrinsic repeatedly has said the lender used the post to send the mortgage offer and 
that it was signed. The lender has shown this is not correct. It sent the mortgage offer 
to the email address given by R and the mortgage offer didnt need to be signed. 
Once the cooling-off period ended, the product would be put in place. The evidence 
shows that its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D didnt receive the mortgage offer or 
any information about the product they ended up with and this was the fault of R.
I accept that a rate of 1.69% for a five year product from this lender never existed, 
and I cant find that any similar rates wouldve been available from the information 
gathered by R at the time he advised Mr and Mrs D. This means they didnt miss out 
on the rate as it wasnt available and their financial loss isnt the difference between 
1.69% and 1.95% as the 1.69% rate was never available for five years.
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs D have suffered a financial loss, though R did act 
unfairly and unreasonably. The 1.95% was a competitive rate and on the face of it 
met Mr and Mrs Ds needs; I'm not persuaded that it's more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs D wouldnt have taken it out if the error made by R hadnt happened.
But I think Mr and Mrs D did suffer trouble and upset. They suffered a loss of 
expectation as they thought that they were taking out a different product. I dont think 
R or Intrinsic acted fairly or reasonably in failing to ensure that they received the 
mortgage suitability report or mortgage offer, or in the assumptions they made about 
the lenders practice when dealing with the complaint. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, and its important to understand that such 
compensation is awarded for the actual distress suffered, not for the size of the error. 
Based on the evidence available to me, I think £300 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint, Quilter Financial Services Ltd trading as Intrinsic Wealth Management should pay 
£300 compensation to Mr and Mrs D for the trouble and upset caused by its failings. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.Claire Sharp
Ombudsman