DRN-4379871
Complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt reimbursed her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In December 2022, Miss W was targeted by a scam. She was contacted on a social 
messaging platform by someone who claimed to be working on behalf of a well-known 
recruitment agency. 
She was offered the chance to carry out an affiliate marketing role. She was asked to carry 
out basic administrative tasks on an online platform and was told that this would help the 
companys clients improve their product data and optimize it, resulting in better reviews for 
the products, and much more purchases by consumers. Unfortunately, this wasnt a 
legitimate employment opportunity but a scam. In order to participate on this platform, Miss 
W needed to deposit funds into her account. 
In total she transferred £4,189 from her Monzo account. She transferred the funds to an 
account with a separate business that was in her own name. From there, she transferred the 
funds on to an account controlled by the fraudster.
Once she realised shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Monzo. It looked into things but 
it didnt agree to reimburse her. It did, however, agree to pay her £100 in recognition of some 
customer service difficulties she experienced. Miss W was unhappy with Monzos response 
and so she referred her complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. She said that the earlier payments Miss W 
made in connection with the scam were generally in line with the typical activity on her 
account. However, by the time she asked it to make a payment of £2,500, this was the sixth 
payment in that day and was generally larger than the typical payments from her account.
She thought that Monzo shouldve intervened and not processed that payment without first 
speaking to Miss W to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. If it 
had done so and asked her about the reasons for these payments, it wouldve uncovered the 
scam. 
However, she also considered whether Miss W was partially responsible for her own losses. 
She concluded that she was and was satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Monzo to 
settle the complaint on a shared liability basis  i.e. that it should only refund 50% of Miss 
Ws losses. The Investigator noted that that Miss W hadnt been leaving her contact details 
with recruiters and wasnt looking for work. She should, therefore, have been surprised when 
she was offered a role out of the blue. She also thought Miss W shouldve been concerned 
at the lack of formalities  for example, there was no contract of employment. Finally, she 
concluded that £100 was fair compensation for the customer service difficulties she 
experienced. 
Monzo didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. In summary, it argued that:
The £2,500 payment was not unusual or out of character.
Bank accounts are designed to enable customers to carry out everyday spending but 
also to allow occasional larger purchases. 
By the point Miss W made the £2,500 payment, she had deposited money with and 
received payments back from the payee. She therefore had an established payment 
relationship with that business and so the payments wouldnt have appeared out of 
character.
The payments were made to an account in the customers own name  and so Miss 
W hadnt experienced any financial loss at the point the money left her Monzo 
account. Her loss only crystallised after she moved her funds from her account with 
the payee on to one controlled by the fraudsters. 
The Supreme Court decision in Phillipp v Barclays concluded that banks are 
expected to carry out customers wishes and our findings should reflect that.
Because Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that Monzo be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the 
risk identified.
The Investigator said that the £2,500 payment was the point at which Monzo ought to have 
intervened and I agree with that conclusion. Having looked at the statements shared with us, 
I cant see any other payments of more than £1,000 leaving Miss Ws account in the twelve 
months prior to the scam. There were two transactions for exactly £1,000 but these were 
payments into the account. It's also significant that shed sent six payments in one day to a 
payee with which she had a fairly new relationship. I think there was a clear pattern of 
activity on her account that ought to have suggested that there was a risk of fraud. I dont 
think Monzo shouldve processed the £2,500 payment without first making enquiries with 
Miss W.
In reaching my decision that Monzo should have made further enquires, I have taken into 
account the Supreme Courts decision in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC [2023] UKSC 25.
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks when making payments.  Among other things, it said, in summary:
The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions. 
The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its customers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of 
authorised push payment (APP) fraud, but the court said having the right to decline 
to carry out an instruction was not the same as being under a duty to do so.   In this case, the terms and conditions applicable to Miss Ws account gave Monzo the right 
to:
Block payments where it suspects criminal activity on the account, or to protect the 
customer from fraud.
Refuse to make a payment if it suspects the customer is a victim of fraud.
So, the starting position at law was that:
Monzo was under an implied duty at law to make payments promptly.
It had a contractual right not to make payments where it suspected fraud. 
It had a contractual right to delay payments to make enquiries where it suspected 
fraud.
It could therefore refuse payments, or make enquiries, where it suspected fraud, but 
it was not under a contractual duty to do either of those things.
Whilst the current account terms did not oblige Monzo to make fraud checks, I do not 
consider any of these things (including the implied basic legal duty to make payments 
promptly) precluded it from making fraud checks before making a payment. And whilst it was 
not required or obliged under the contract to make checks, I am satisfied that, taking into 
account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements,  and what I consider to 
have been good practice at the time, it should fairly and reasonably have been on the look-
out for the possibility of APP fraud and have taken additional steps, or made additional 
checks, before processing payments in some circumstances  as in practice all banks 
(including Monzo) do. 
In this case for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied it shouldve intervened. If it had done 
so, I find it more likely than not that Miss W wouldve given a candid description of the 
opportunity that had been offered to her. The facts concord with a commonly occurring scam 
type and Id have expected an employee of the bank to recognise it. Miss W could then have 
been warned that the opportunity was not legitimate and that she shouldnt make any further 
payments. If this had happened, Im satisfied it wouldve prevented her from making that 
payment and the one that followed.
Ive also considered whether Miss W can be considered partially responsible for her own 
losses. In doing so, Ive kept in mind what the law says about contributory negligence but 
also that I must decide this case on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Having done so, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for her to be considered partially 
responsible and for broadly the same reasons offered by the Investigator. She shouldve 
been sceptical when receiving an unsolicited approach from a recruiter. I also think she 
shouldve been concerned by the nature of the employment proposition  she was paying 
money to participate in this opportunity. In most employment scenarios, the employee 
expects to be paid by their employer  but this arrangement turned that assumption on its 
head. Given that, I think she shouldve had her doubts about whether this could be a 
genuine opportunity. Overall, I think its fair and reasonable for Monzo to only refund 50% of 
the money Miss W lost here.
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Monzo did everything it shouldve done after 
it was notified that Miss W had fallen victim to a scam. I can see that it notified the 
intermediary bank promptly which then contacted the ultimate recipient of the funds. Unfortunately, it confirmed that no funds remained and so nothing could be returned to 
Miss Ws account.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Miss W accepts my decision, Monzo Bank Ltd should refund her 50% of her losses from 
the £2,500 payment onwards. It should add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum 
calculated to run from the date of the payments until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman