DRN-3104040
The complaint
Mr K complains that when he resumed payments into his pension plan with The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited, it failed to immediately reinstate his Serious 
Disability Cover (SDC). 
He also complains that Royal London then went on to decline his application for SDC to be 
included in his pension plan. 
What happened
In August 2000, Mr K received advice to begin paying into a personal pension plan with 
Royal London. The plan included SDC, which was paid for by part of the contributions to his 
pension. 
In January 2004, contributions to the plan stopped  and as a result, the plan was paid up, 
and the SDC lapsed.
In 2016, Mr K sought to reinstate his pension plan. Royal London sent Mr K the necessary 
forms to do so.
Mr K explained to Royal London that he had received the medical consent forms and 
reinstatement letters. However, he wanted to provide verbal instructions to Royal London, 
but it was unable to facilitate this. A Royal London agent offered to go through the forms with 
Mr K over the phone, but he decided to ask his brother to assist him. 
Payments into the plan recommenced in November 2016, but as the medical consent forms 
hadnt been received, the SDC was not set up at the same time. Mr K was also sent a letter 
providing the policy details and explaining that the SDC was not included.
In July 2020, Mr K complained to Royal London, saying that the SDC cover should never 
have lapsed, and that it shouldve been re-instated when his payments to the plan 
recommenced. 
Royal London replied with its final response on 6 August 2020 rejecting Mr Ks complaint by 
referencing the original terms and conditions of the plan which stated that SDC would lapse 
if contributions into the pension plan stopped. 
Mr K then contacted Royal London again as he wasnt satisfied with what it had said and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
On 2 September 2020 Royal London provided another response, maintaining its original
position.
Mr K then requested Royal London consider reinstating the SDC. In a letter dated 4 
February 2021 Royal London explained that due to Mr Ks medical history, it wasnt able to 
proceed with Mr Ks application for SDC, and was rejecting it. 
Mr K then made a second complaint in February 2021 about Royal Londons decision to 
reject his application for the SDC.
Mr K then brought both parts of his complaint to this service on 24 March 2021.
An investigator looked at both parts of Mr Ks complaint and concluded that this service 
could not consider Mr Ks complaint made in July 2020 as it had been brought to this service 
too late. They also explained that they didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about Royal Londons 
decision to reject his application for a new SDC policy.
Mr K disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Ks complaint comprises of two issues, I will deal with these separately.
Mr Ks complaint that Royal London did not automatically recommence his SDC when 
payments recommenced to his pension
I cant look at all complaints referred to me. Before I am able to decide on the merits of a 
complaint, I need to look at whether this complaint falls within our jurisdiction. I am duty 
bound to apply the rules because Royal London has not consented to the complaint 
continuing under our rules. 
Where there is a consideration to be made about our rules, this takes precedence over 
looking at the full circumstances of the complaint. The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules 
which apply to this service as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. Im not 
able to set these aside or apply discretion to certain rules. 
A specific rule, DISP rule 2.8.2 R (1), says I cant consider a complaint which has been 
referred to me more than six months after the date of a final response letter (FRL) telling a 
party that they can refer the complaint to us. This applies where a business will not provide 
consent for the complaint to be pursued out of time, which is what Royal London has done 
here. And having reviewed what has been provided to me, I do not believe this particular 
complaint can proceed. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why. 
From the information I have seen, Royal London sent Mr K its final response to this 
complaint on 6 August 2020  so Mr K had until 6 February 2021 to bring his complaint to 
this service. But he didnt do so until 24 March 2021. So, his complaint has been made out of 
time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can consider complaints brought outside of the usual time-limits where Im persuaded that 
exceptional circumstances apply  so Ive considered what Mr K has said about that.
Mr K has explained that he suffers from learning difficulties, and so often is unable to 
respond in a timely manner. But while I appreciate that making a complaint may have been 
more difficult for Mr K, he did continue communicating with Royal London during this time he 
had to bring his complaint to this service  so I think that he couldve raised his complaint 
with us during this time too. So, Im afraid that Im not persuaded that exceptional circumstances apply here, and Im 
unable to consider this part of Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr Ks complaint about Royal Londons decision to reject his application for a new SDC 
policy to be added to his pension plan in 2020
As Ive explained above, Im not able to consider whether Royal London made the correct 
decision when it didnt reinstate Mr Ks SDC when payments to his pension restarted in 2016 
 so all that is left for me to decide is if it made the right decision when it rejected the new 
application.
I can see that Royal London wrote to Mr Ks GP in order to gather information about his 
health  this is standard practice for this type of insurance. The underwriters wouldve used 
this information, as well as other information about Mr K in coming to a decision whether to 
provide this cover to Mr K  and ultimately it decided that the risk of providing this insurance 
to Mr K was too high, and so rejected the application as is its right to do. I dont think thats 
unreasonable, considering Mr K was already unwell and unable to work at the time he 
applied for the insurance.
Im not able to compel a business to provide insurance to an individual  it can make its own 
decisions about whom it wishes to provide cover to based on its underwriting criteria. And 
Mr K couldve sought out comparative alternative cover elsewhere if he felt that this type of 
policy was important to him.
It follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
Im unable to consider if The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited made the 
correct decision not to reinstate Mr Ks SDC policy in 2016 as it has been brought to this 
service too late.
And I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limiteds decision to reject his application for a new SDC policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman