DRN-2966255
The complaint
Mr A complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under 
this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was almost seven years old and had covered some 43,600 miles when it was 
acquired by Mr A. It passed its MOT shortly before it was sold and I note that it passed its 
next MOT in February 2020 having covered a further 17,000 miles. It also passed the MOT 
in May 2021 having done a further 7,000 miles.
Mr A says he raised concerns with the broker and the dealer a few months after he took 
delivery of the car, but I note he first complained to Moneybarn in November 2019 some 
eight months after he acquired the car. I have not seen any supporting evidence of Mr As 
early concerns. I note he incurred £600.62 on repairs in August 2020 and the RAC was 
called out in September 2020. The mechanic noted that the engine had overheated from a 
leak. 
Mr A says he was told to let the car run a bit more by the dealer when he first raised his 
concerns so he kept it running. He has also said that he wasnt given sufficient time to 
demonstrate the car had been faulty to Moneybarn.
I have to be satisfied that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale if I am to uphold 
this complaint. I appreciate Mr A has encountered some issues and I note that he raised 
these with the broker and dealer after a few months, but I have seen no evidence which 
would show the car was faulty at the point of sale. It was relatively old and had covered a 
reasonable number of miles so some wear and tear is to be expected.
However, Mr A was able to cover a significant number of miles before it required repair. 
What I cannot say from the evidence which has been suppled that this subsequent damage 
wasnt due to wear and tear. In the first year he drove the car for some 23,000 miles and I 
find it difficult to reconcile that with the car being inherently faulty. So, while I have every 
sympathy with Mr A I cannot safely conclude that the car was faulty at the point of sale.
I see that the business has accepted it didnt handle Mr As complaint as well as it could and 
has offered to pay him £220 compensation for the delays. I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should pay £200..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman