DRN-4160872
The complaint
Mr C complains that hes being asked to pay interest by American Express Services Europe 
Limited, trading as American Express, on an item he didnt receive.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I dont think American Express have been unreasonable 
here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When an item Mr C had ordered from a merchant was stolen before he took receipt of it, 
Mr C made a claim to American Express under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
The claim was referred to this Service and American Express agreed to settle the claim in 
Mr Cs favour, refund the £1,100 the goods had cost, and pay 8% simple interest per year on 
the outstanding debt until the claim was settled.
Subsequently Mr C complained to American Express again as he didnt think he should have 
been charged interest on the debt whilst it remained on his account. I dont think it would be 
fair for Mr C to pay interest on a debt this Service has decided he shouldnt have accrued. 
But I note that American Express have refunded over £75 of interest and that our original 
investigator asked them to pay 8% on the outstanding debt until the original claim was 
settled. Im required to decide what is fair having considered all of the relevant rules, 
regulations, and guidelines, and I think the redress Mr C has already received is likely to 
have been at least equivalent to any interest accrued on the goods through his credit card 
account. I dont therefore think American Express have been unreasonable and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman