DRN-2727204
The complaint
R, a partnership, is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund the money it lost from its 
business banking account after one of its partners, Mr H, was the victim of a scam. R is also 
unhappy with the way in which Clydesdale dealt with the fraud claim and with its efforts to 
get the money back from the banks it was sent to.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr H received a call from someone claiming to be from the fraud 
department of Rs bank. He was told the bank had stopped a series of payments being made 
from the account  but in order to protect Rs money, he needed to make transfers to new 
accounts so that the money would be safe.
Mr H was asked to transfer a total of £30,000 across two payments to these accounts, which 
he then did through his mobile banking. It also appears, that later that evening, the fraudster 
registered a new payee for telephone banking and attempted a further payment of 
approximately £10,000. But that payment didnt go through as the fraudster failed some of 
the security questions.  
After hed transferred the money, Mr H became suspicious and spoke with Clydesdale which 
confirmed a scam had taken place. Clydesdale agreed to look into the matter. It said it was 
sorry to hear what happened but as the payments had been authorised by Mr H, there was 
nothing further it could do to help.  
Unhappy with Clydesdales response, R brought its complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said the 
payments had been authorised (albeit as a result of a scam) by Mr H and this meant 
Clydesdale werent required to refund the payments  that is unless they could be said to 
have been unusual enough to have flagged with Clydesdale as potentially fraudulent, so 
prompting it to contact R before processing them to prevent the fraud from occurring. But the 
investigator felt the payments werent unusual enough, compared to the genuine activity on 
the account, for them to have triggered this requirement of Clydesdale.
By the time the scam was reported to Clydesdale later that same evening, most of the funds 
had already been moved on from the accounts the scammer had asked the money to be 
sent to. But the investigator noted that roughly £500 was still available in the account that 
evening after Mr H had got in touch. And if Clydesdale had contacted the relevant bank that 
night, rather than the following morning when its fraud team were back in the office, then that 
amount may have been recovered. Clydesdale has offered to pay this amount back to R. 
R disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr H has 
said he believes the payments were unusual enough that they should have been flagged by 
Clydesdales anti-fraud systems and further contact should have been made with him. In 
addition to this, he also believes Clydesdale couldve done more to recover the money after 
he first reported the scam, and that if it had acted sooner, there may have been more money 
left. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Rs partners, but I wont be recommending that Clydesdale refunds 
them all of the stolen funds. Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Its accepted by both parties that Mr H authorised the payments, albeit as a result of being 
tricked by the scammer. As a result (and under the PSRs as well as the banks terms and 
conditions of business), R is primarily responsible for the payments.
Whilst thats the starting point, its not however the end of the story. So, when considering 
Clydesdales obligations, I also think it should fairly and reasonably:
-have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
-have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
-in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with R when Mr H authorised the payments from Rs account. Or whether it could, and 
should, have done more before processing it. 
The disputed payments were made via mobile banking and without the direct involvement of 
Clydesdales staff. Ive reviewed Rs account statements for the relevant period. I appreciate 
that Mr H has said that this size of mobile payment wasnt something hed normally do. But 
Im afraid that looking at the type and size of transactions done on the account as a whole, 
those in dispute werent unusual or out of character to the extent that Id have expected 
Clydesdale to have flagged them up as potentially fraudulent. 
For example, there are quite a few payments in the time leading up to the disputed 
payments which are of a similar value. And there are also examples of genuine payments 
being made via mobile banking as well, although I accept that they werent for as much as 
those involved in this fraud. But its also important to remember that this was a business 
account, so it was being used extensively for payments to both existing payees and new 
ones. 
The account was being operated within its approved overdraft. And the balance on the 
account fluctuated quite significantly both before, during and after the scam took place. So, I 
cant say that the making of these payments was so unusual that it should have triggered the 
banks systems for further checks to have been made. I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels about these mobile banking payments being different. 
And I agree that his account doesnt show such significant sums leaving the account through 
mobile banking before. But R does issue cheques for those amounts. And there is of course 
a fine balancing act for banks when deciding what will flag as suspicious. If a bank was to go 
so far as to question every new payee for a business account, this would place an 
unreasonable burden on both the bank and its customers. And wouldnt allow businesses to 
operate efficiently. So, in the circumstances of Rs case, I dont think it was reasonable to 
expect the bank to have stopped these payments.
Clydesdale did of course stop the attempted telephone banking fraud. But this appears to 
have been down to some failed security questions rather than the transaction itself flagging 
up as suspicious. So, I dont think this evidences any sort of system failure at the bank 
whereby it failed to recognise the earlier, larger, payments as being suspicious.
Ive also thought about Clydesdales actions after Mr H reported the scam to it  including 
whether it wouldve been possible for Clydesdale to recover any of the funds in the first 
place.
I know Mr H is very unhappy about the lack of assistance that Clydesdale gave him when 
dealing with the fraud and attempting to recover the money. Most of the funds had 
unfortunately been moved on from the scammers account by the time the issue was 
reported to Clydesdale, which Im afraid is quite typical of what happens in these sorts of 
scam. But from the timing information Ive seen, I do think that if Clydesdale had acted a bit 
quicker, just over £500 may have been recoverable. And I note that following our 
involvement, it has now agreed to return that sum to R.
In terms of Clydesdales actions more generally, I appreciate how much of a stressful time 
this has been for Rs partners. And Im really sorry to hear what theyve had to go through. 
But I dont think that Clydesdale has acted unfairly or unreasonably here in the way that its 
dealt with the fraud claim.
Clydesdale did try to recover the money, but it took longer than would have been hoped to 
find out that this wasnt possible. Thats because one of the banks to which the funds were 
sent was in turn trying to chase the money down the line to the next bank it had gone to. So, 
there wasnt much Clydesdale could have done about that. I see that the branch manager 
that Mr H contacted on the night in question did call him back that same evening too. And 
the bank did start looking into the fraud the following morning.
In terms of the way the fraud was perpetrated, the fraudster managed to make it look as 
though he was calling from the banks customer service number on the back of Mr Hs card. I 
know that Mr H thinks that Clydesdale should have done something to warn customers 
about this. And hes said that its now all over the banks website - but wasnt at the time. But 
this method of fraud is just one of many that scammers use to gain the trust of their victims. 
Its not something that Clydesdale could have stopped, as technology to spoof the number is 
used by the fraudster when making the call. And I cant say that if it had done more here to 
warn customers more generally of this in advance, this fraud would have been avoided.
I completely understand why Mr H thinks Clydesdale is to blame here, but its important to 
remember that it was the fraudster who was primarily responsible for Rs loss and the trouble 
and upset caused to its partners. And whilst I appreciate that Mr H thinks that Clydesdale 
could have done more here to stop this happening in the first place, I havent found that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably toward R. So, Im afraid that I dont think it has to take 
responsibility for the loss.  My final decision
Its my final decision that Clydesdale Bank Plcs offer to refund £509.09 to R amounts to fair 
compensation. If it hasnt already, I require that it refunds that sum to R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask one of Rs partners 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman