DRN-3572464
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as J, complains about the service received when attempting to contact 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op). 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 who are both partners of J bring the complaint on Js behalf. 
What happened
In January 2022, J attempted to contact the Co-op on a number of occasions. From the 
information the Co-op have provided, it seems the reasons for the calls were to unblock Js 
business account, cancel a direct debit and process an indemnity reclaim. J said they had to 
wait on hold for around an hour on these calls, so they complained to the Co-op about 
service provided. 
The Co-op apologised and agreed the call wait times were not where theyd like them to be. 
They said they were making improvements which they were confident J would see the impact 
of soon, which included recruiting and training further staff. But J remained unhappy and felt 
the poor service warranted compensation, so they brought their complaint to our service.  
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said she 
accepted the matter wouldve been frustrating for J, but she didnt think the call wait times 
were long enough to warrant compensation. But J remained unhappy, so the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence provided by the Co-op, it seems there were three specific calls that took 
place in January 2022. And J have not disputed that these were the calls in question. The 
information provided shows that on the first call J had to wait around 40 minutes before 
being connected; the second call it seems was disconnected; and the third call, J had to wait 
around 65 minutes before being connected. These times are broadly in line with those J 
have complained about, and the specific calls dont appear to be in dispute. Equally the 
opinion that these wait times were excessive, is also not in dispute. For clarity, I agree this 
was a long time to wait on hold  I accept it must have been frustrating.
However, while the call wait times were rather long, the Co-op have explained that theyre 
doing what they can to improve these, and have said theyre both recruiting and training 
more staff, who will be equipped to take these calls to help reduce these wait times.
I appreciate J has said this has caused disruption and has taken up valuable time. But as the 
investigator has rightly pointed out, for us to award compensation, we need to decide that 
the impact of a businesss actions have been bigger than just a minor inconvenience or 
upset. And from the evidence provided, I cant see that has been the case here. 
While I accept this would have been a frustration for J, Im satisfied on this occasion, that the 
Co-ops explanation and apology is a sufficient resolution to this matter in the circumstances. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman