DRN-4201612
The complaint
Mr F complains Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly declined a claim under his Landlord 
Legal Solutions insurance policy. 
Any reference to Lloyds includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The events of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened.
Mr F has a landlord insurance policy which is underwritten by Lloyds. The policy 
started in June 2019.
Mr F made a claim under the policy in relation to the recovery of rent arrears from his 
tenant. 
Lloyds declined the claim saying Mr F was aware or ought reasonably to have been 
aware that the rent arrears  which first occurred before the policy started  could 
give rise to a claim under the policy. 
It said evidence showed Mr Fs tenant had been in rental arrears since February 
2017. And that Mr F had  in January 2019  issued the tenant with a notice for 
possession due to the arears. So, Lloyds was satisfied the events pre-dated the start 
of the policy and was therefore, wasnt covered. 
Unhappy, Mr F brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it.
Because Mr F disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document which says under What is not covered by 
this policy:
Any act or alleged act, omission or dispute happening before, or existing at 
the start of the policy, and which you knew or ought reasonably to have 
known could give rise to a claim.
In other words, if an act pre-dates the start of the policy and the policyholder knew or 
ought reasonably to have known it could lead to a claim, the claim wouldnt be 
covered.
So, I need to decide whether the act  namely, the rent arrears - occurred before the 
policy started and whether Mr F ought to have known or reasonably known the rent 
arrears could lead to a claim. 
Its important to note the policy wording doesnt state the act has to lead to a claim 
under the policy, rather that it could  and here, Im satisfied, based on the 
information Ive seen that Mr F ought reasonably to have known the rent arrears 
could lead to a claim under the policy. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided and of significance is the account statement and 
notice for possession order issued by Mr F to the tenant. The statement shows rent 
arrears first occurred in February 2017 and were still ongoing in September 2019. 
So, Im in no doubt the arrears first occurred before the policy started in June 2019.  
And, as they consistently continued beyond the date the policy was taken out, Im 
satisfied the arrears are all part of the same act. 
The second  the notice for possession  was issued to the tenant in January 2019 
and states persistently delayed paying rent as the grounds for doing so. 
Mr F says he wasnt aware of the rent arrears, but Im not persuaded by this 
argument as I consider it unlikely - owing to the amount of arrears outstanding, the 
length of time the arrears had accumulated, along with a notice for possession order 
having been served  that Mr F wouldnt be aware of the situation with his tenant.  
Having considered everything, Im persuaded its reasonable to say Mr F knew or 
ought reasonably to have known the rent arrears could lead to a claim under the 
policy and so, Im satisfied Lloyds reliance on the exclusion to decline Mr Fs claim is 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman