DRN-2101657
The complaint
Ms M complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when she returned her hire vehicle. 
What happened
Ms M entered into a hire agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in late 2016. The 
agreement ran for three years, and the vehicle was returned at the end of the agreement 
period. 
Collection agents BCA collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 28 November 2019. The 
report notes damage to three alloy wheels which is outside of fair wear and tear and 
indicates that the charge to Ms M for these items will be £315. It also notes that the V5 
registration document is missing and there will be a charge of £25 for this. 
Ms M complained to MBFS about the level of the charges applied, she feels these are too 
high for the damage thats present and she could have the damage repaired for a reduced 
sum. Ms M also complained about being charged for the V5 document, as she never 
received one. 
MBFS responded to Ms Ms complaint to say that the damage charges would not be 
reviewed as the damage falls outside of the MBFS vehicle return standards, which are 
included at the start of the agreement and sent again six months prior to the end of the hire 
period. MBFS agreed to remove the charge for the missing V5 document as it wasnt 
supplied to Ms M under the hire agreement. 
Ms M remained unhappy with the response from MBFS. She says she never received a 
copy of the vehicle return standards, either at the start of the agreement or six months 
before the end of the hire period, so she wasnt able to decide whether to get the damage 
repaired before handing the car back. When MBFS didnt change their position, Ms M 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M. He felt that the photos showed the damage to 
the wheels, and as the return standards formed part of Ms Ms agreement MBFS had 
applied the charges fairly. He also felt those charges werent excessive, and so didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators view. She thinks the charges are excessive and she 
wasnt given a chance to have the damage repaired at a lower cost before handing the car 
back. So, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M signed a hire agreement in late 2016. The terms of the agreement set out that the 
vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. The agreement goes on to set out those standards in full. So, Im satisfied that 
the vehicle return standards were brought to Ms Ms attention, and that she was able to 
review them prior to signing the agreement and agreeing to them. 
Ms M has said in her response to our investigator that she has had several lease vehicles 
and been provided with the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) 
guidelines for fair wear and tear. So, Im satisfied that Ms M is familiar with the process of 
returning a leased vehicle, and that charges may be made where damage is outside of fair 
wear and tear. 
Its clear from the agreement that Ms M was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition, but the question is whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
Ive had regard to the MBFS vehicle return standards, and the BVRLA fair wear and tear 
guidelines in deciding what it is fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car. 
MBFS are charging Ms M for the following damage: 
 
Left Hand Front Wheel 2-4mm deep over 20% of rim or on the spoke £115
Left Hand Rear Wheel 2-4mm deep over 20% of rim or on the spoke £115
Right Hand Front Wheel Under 2mm deep over 20% of rim or on the spoke £85
The hire agreement says that any scuff chip or scratch under 25mm is acceptable. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the alloy wheel is acceptable.
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the damage to the three wheels, and Im 
satisfied that they clearly show scuffs to the alloys over 50mm. so Im satisfied that the 
decision to charge for these is fair and reasonable both under the terms of the hire 
agreement and the BVRLA guidelines. 
Ms M is unhappy with the level of the charges that have been applied and says that she 
could have repaired them locally herself for about £65 per wheel. Our investigator didnt 
think the charges were excessive and so didnt consider them further. 
Ive looked into the damage charges, and I can see that the costs are included on a charging 
matrix on MBFSs website. So, Im satisfied that Ms M could have reviewed these and 
decided whether to have the damage repaired instead of incurring end of contract charges. 
Ive looked at the charging structures for other manufacturers, and the charges applied by 
MBFS are higher than others. I have the power to require businesses to act in relation to an 
individual where something has gone wrong, but not to order a business to change its 
practices more generally. So, I cant say what MBFS should charge for damage when hire 
vehicles are returned, but I can look at whether they have applied those charges fairly in this 
particular case. I am satisfied that MBFSs charging structure is the same for all consumers 
at the end of the hire agreement, so I dont think its been applied unfairly in this case. 
Ive thought about whether the charges are excessive. I appreciate that Ms M may have 
been able to take her vehicle to a local garage and have it repaired at a lower cost, but that 
doesnt mean that MBFSs charges are unfair. Ive taken into consideration that charges do differ between manufacturers. Ive also consulted quotation websites, and these have 
returned an average cost of £300 to repair three alloys on the same make and model as Ms 
Ms vehicle. All things considered, Im not persuaded that the £315 charge applied by MBFS 
is excessive in the circumstances. 
Ms M has said that she should have been provided with the vehicle return standards again 
six months prior to the end of the hire period, but she wasnt. MBFS have also indicated that 
its their standard practice to provide another copy of the standards at this point, but they 
havent provided any evidence that they did so in this case. 
Ive thought about whether its pivotal to Ms Ms complaint if the standards were resent to her 
at the end of the hire agreement, but I dont think it is. I say this because Im satisfied that 
the standards formed part of the agreement, and that Ms M was aware of them when she 
signed it. Ms M was also aware of the process for returning a leased vehicle, and of the 
BVRLA guidelines. So, whether or not Ms M received a second copy of the standards 
wouldnt affect my decision.
Ms M has said that she returned the vehicle with fewer miles than is permitted under the 
agreement, and so MBFS will benefit from the car having a higher value because of this. I 
dont think this affects the damage charges that apply under the contract. The return 
standards and fair wear and tear guidelines are separate to any permitted mileage and, in 
any event, the agreement doesnt contain a provision to give any benefit to Ms M if the 
vehicle isnt driven the full annual mileage limit. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman