DRN-3379668
The complaint
Mr W complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
In or around September 2019, Mr W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Allium. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In December 2019, Mr Ws made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Allium. He said that 
P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr W to enter into the contract 
with P. He have made the following points:
The cost of the system would be £75 per month but the actual amount payable was 
£146 per month; and
he was never shown any kind of presentation of the payments that were due; and
the salesman told him theyd install 13 solar panels but only invoice for 12. But he 
was still charged for 13; and
some of the solar panels installed were in shade.
Allium referred Mr Ws complaint to P who issued a final response and explained that they 
didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr W or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons;
He was pressured to sign documentation by Ps salesperson; and
the salesperson told him to ignore any figures included in the documentation; and
he would never have agreed to a loan agreement requiring repayments over 16 
years, given his age at the time; and
his earnings meant he couldnt afford the repayments; and 
he wouldnt sign for a product he would make a loss on.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Allium, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Allium.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr W and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with the Mr Ws testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The Solar Quote and Credit Agreement
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Allium, has told 
this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P 
would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the system, 
prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Ive also noted that Mr Ws comments appear to support that the quote was provided and 
formed a central part of the sales process. He told this service, When it finally came 
through, I signed on the dotted lineI didnt read it.
So, having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process, and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting and Mr W was provided with a copy. So, Ive taken this 
into account, along with the consumers version of events when considering if there have 
been any untrue statements of fact. 
Mr W has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be £75. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement also clearly sets out the cash price of the goods. Mr W was provided with a copy 
of the loan agreement which he signed electronically.On balance, Im satisfied that the information provided to Mr W told him that the cost of the 
system was £14,150. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit 
agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £14,150. The monthly 
payment was £146.72. The total amount of credit was £14,050 and goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £26,476.72.
Pages 39 to 42 of the quote are headed Your Agreement and include three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr W entered into with Allium. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £146.72. For each year of the 15-year 
loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure 
over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £146.72, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the savings Mr W could expect to achieve from the system, 
as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Im happy it does clearly set 
out that the overall savings he could expect to achieve would not be sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. 
Ive thought carefully about the Mr Ws version of events. However, Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting. And Ive not been provided with anything that persuades me that the salesperson 
wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the quote. So, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that Mr W was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
£75.
Mr W has admitted that he didnt read any of the information provided to him and he just 
signed the documentation where required - that was Mr Ws choice. But I cant reasonably 
hold P or Allium responsible for that. The information was made available and Mr W had the 
opportunity and time to read and consider it before the installation was completed and the 
loan became active. I also think he had sufficient time and opportunity to raise any concerns 
or questions arising from the documentation.
Allium have provided evidence that Mr W signed the Solar Quote in all the required places 
together with the credit agreement and associated direct debit authority. Theyve also shown 
that Mr W provided his financial details to Ps sales representative as part of the loan 
application. 
The system installed
Mr W suggested that he was told that although P installed 13 solar panels, he would only be 
invoiced for 12. Evidence shows that the original system agreed included 16 solar panels. 
But it was discovered that these wouldnt fit Mr Ws property. The number of panels installed 
was reduced to 13. But in exchange, Mr W was supplied with a larger electricity storage 
battery. This was confirmed in a further quote issued in November 2019 which Mr W signed 
and returned.
While I acknowledge Mr Ws comment, Ive not been provided with anything that supports 
his suggestion that he would be charged a lower price for the panels supplied. It isnt 
referenced in any of the documentation.
Mr W has also raised concerns that some of the solar panels installed at his property are 
often in the shade. Allium have provided this service with assurances that the system 
proposed by P, together with the supporting calculations, are subject to approval under the 
HIES (Home Installation and Energy Systems) Scheme before any installation and 
associated finance progresses. So, Im satisfied that the system installed met those 
requirements. 
Credit Assessment
Mr W suggests Allium acted inappropriately when they agreed to provide him with a loan 
over 15 years. 
Before agreeing Mr Ws loan, Allium needed to complete an assessment of his credit 
worthiness. The guidelines for this are set out in CONC 5.2A of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook. In particular, they must base their creditworthiness assessment 
on sufficient information obtained, where appropriate, from Mr W, and where necessary from 
a credit reference agency.
Allium have provided details and explanations of the credit assessments they completed 
These included the information referenced above. In particular, they considered Mr Ws 
credit and payment history together with details of his income and expenditure, as provided 
by him. Allium say that their checks revealed nothing of concern and demonstrated that Mr 
W could afford the proposed repayments based upon this information. 
Having considered all the information provided, I believe the checks and assessments 
completed by Allium met the requirements laid down in CONC 5.2A and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Allium acted inappropriately.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman