DRN-4519106
The complaint
Mr P is complaining on behalf of R  a limited company  about the way Aviva Insurance 
Limited has settled a claim R made on its commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Mr P and R have also been represented by Rs broker for large parts of this complaint. But 
for ease of reference I shall refer to anything shes said as being said by Mr P.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr P was involved in an accident where one of Rs commercial vehicles 
suffered significant damage. So Mr P looked to claim for the damage on Rs commercial 
vehicle insurance policy. Aviva initially thought the vehicle may be repairable, but it said it 
needed an expert assessment due to the extent of the damage and the nature of the vehicle. 
However, the repair estimate wasnt received until July 2022. Following this, Aviva thought 
the vehicle was a total loss, so it said it would settle the claim by paying R the vehicles 
market value, less the excess of £1,500. And in August 2022 it valued the vehicle at 
£155,000.
Mr P didnt agree with the valuation as he said hed bought the vehicle for £185,000 and the 
value of vehicles had increased since then. And he said the dealership hed bought the 
vehicle from said to replace the vehicle with a new one would cost £225,000. And the 
dealership also said to buy a similar second-hand vehicle would cost around £160,000- 
£165,000. So Mr P complained about the amount Aviva was offering to settle the claim. He 
had also complained about the length of time it had taken to offer the settlement. He set out 
that R had lost a significant amount of money as a result of the time the claim had taken.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that the initial delay in settling the claim was 
down to the length of time it had taken the manufacturer to inspect the vehicle, which it said 
was out of its control. And it was satisfied £155,000 was a fair assessment of the vehicles 
market value. Mr P didnt agree, so he referred his complaint to this Service. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Rs complaint in a lot less detail 
than Mr P has presented it. Mr P has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy 
with the way Aviva has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point 
hes raised. Instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure all parties, however, that I have read and considered everything theyve 
provided.
I think there two core issues for me to decide here:
1. Has Aviva fairly valued Rs vehicle; and
2. Has Aviva caused any avoidable delays in issuing the settlement to R?
I shall address each point separately.
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Rs policy, Aviva has to pay R the market value of the vehicle, less 
the excess of £1,500.
Avivas engineer has said that there werent any examples of similar vehicles of the same 
age and mileage at the point of loss. So he valued the vehicle by considering other similar 
vehicles which were older than Rs and adjusted the value accordingly. And he considered 
£155,000 to be fair. However, I dont think this was a fair process given that the dealership 
who sold R the vehicle, and who is a specialist in this type of vehicle, has said that a fair 
valuation would be between £160,000-£165,000.
Usually, insurers will use valuation guides to value a vehicle. But this wasnt possible in this 
case. So I would have expected Aviva to use other available evidence  such as expert 
opinions or similar adverts. By its own admission, there arent any adverts available of 
similar vehicles of the same age and mileage. I think the only clear evidence that was 
available to value the vehicle is the valuation provided by the dealership. So I think Aviva 
shouldve used this. As a starting point, I would expect Aviva to offer the higher figure of any 
range in valuation unless theres good reason not to. Aviva hasnt given anything to show 
that using the highest figure in the valuation range is unfair. Given this, I think Aviva 
shouldve valued Rs vehicle at £165,000. It follows, therefore, that I think Aviva should pay 
R an additional £10,000.
Time taken to settle the claim
I can see that Mr P has raised three separate complaints about the delay in handling the 
claim. Aviva has, in turn, issued three separate responses to the individual complaints  in 
May 2022, August 2022 and December 2022.
However, I dont think this Service can consider the delays that took place up to May 2022 
as I think this complaint has been brought too late. Our powers to consider complaints are 
set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), written by the FCA in accordance with the powers it 
derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA Handbook.
DISP 2.8.2 sets out the time limits within which a consumer must bring a complaint to this 
service. And they say:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received unless:
3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
5)  the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint.
Aviva issued its first final response letter on 31 May 2022, so Mr P needed to refer this 
complaint to this service by 1 December 2022. But he didnt do so until 24 January 2023. So 
he brought it to us more than six months after Avivas final response letter. And Aviva hasnt consented to us looking at this complaint.
Our rules say we can consider this complaint if I think the failure to bring the complaint in 
time was due to exceptional circumstances. But Mr P hasnt shown this is the case. So Im 
unable to consider Avivas handling of Rs claim up to 31 May 2022.
However, Im able to consider Avivas handling of the rest of the claim. I think this again falls 
into two parts  the initial time taken to declare the vehicle a total loss and value the vehicle, 
and then the time taken from then to pay R the vehicles market value.
I note Mr P asked that Aviva considered writing the vehicle off at the start as its engineer had 
estimated that it would take around six months to repair the vehicle. He said this timeframe 
without a vehicle would have a profound impact on Rs ability to operate. But Aviva is entitled 
to decide how to settle a claim, so long as it exercises this right fairly and reasonably. The 
engineers initial review concluded that the vehicle was likely to be repairable. And Aviva 
was entitled to be mindful that the vehicle had a declared value of £185,000. So I think it was 
entitled to investigate whether it was economical to repair the vehicle or not. 
This vehicle was not a standard car, but a significant commercial vehicle. So it seems that 
an expert was needed to assess the vehicle to see how much it would cost to repair it. I can 
see that Aviva sent the vehicle to the specialist on 21 May 2022, but the specialist set out 
that it would take a number of weeks before it would have the capacity to inspect the vehicle. 
It eventually sent the repair estimate to Aviva on 7 July 2022. I appreciate R was losing a lot 
of money during that time. But the terms of the policy dont cover losses arising from loss of 
use and I cant say that Aviva caused any delays up to this point. Further to this, as I set out 
above, this wasnt a straightforward vehicle to value. So I can understand why it took a few 
weeks to complete the valuation process. Aviva sent its valuation offer on 8 August 2022. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable timeframe.
However, as I said above, I think Aviva valued the vehicle unfairly. So I shall now think about 
whether the situation would have been different had it valued the vehicle at £165,000 and, if 
not, should it have done anything to minimise the impact to R.
Its clear that the delays caused in issuing settlement ultimately stem from the fact Mr P 
didnt agree with Avivas valuation. But Im also conscious that he considered the fair market 
value to be £197,000. So, even if Aviva had offered £165,000 I think there still would have 
been a dispute over the value. That said, I think Aviva shouldve offered to pay an interim 
settlement sooner than it did. But it seems this wasnt done until around January 2023. I can 
also see that Mr P had been asking for this from around October 2022. Had Aviva paid this 
sooner, R wouldnt have had to pay interest on the finance any longer. So I think R has lost 
out because of this.
I dont think its clear precisely when the interim payment shouldve been made as there 
would also be a period of time when R had to produce the relevant documentation Aviva 
required  notably the V5C form, proof of purchase and early settlement figure. But, as I 
said, Aviva shouldve offered to do this sooner. I think the fairest way to assess this is to say 
Aviva shouldve paid £163,500 (£165,000 less the excess of £1,500) by 10 October 2022 
when it reiterated the valuation. So I think Aviva should refund any interest R paid on 
£163,500 from 10 October 2022 until it issued settlement in February 2023. Further to this, it 
should pay 8% simple interest on the additional £10,000 from the date it issued settlement in 
February 2023 until R gets it back.
Mr P responded to accept my provisional decision. Aviva didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
1. Pay R a further £10,000;
2. Refund any interest R paid on £163,500 from 10 October 2022 until it issued settlement 
in February 2023; and
3. Pay 8% simple interest on the additional £10,000 from the date it issued settlement in 
February 2023 until R gets it back. If it thinks that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct tax from this interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so R can reclaim the 
tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman